Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans review In 2009, National Express successfully resolved some major issues in the Groups capital structure and its business portfolio, while continuing to operate profitably.
In 2010, we will be able to focus on operational improvement and build on the foundations that we have laid.
We believe that our actions have drawn a line under a difficult year, establishing a platform to deliver longterm benefit to our shareholders by providing excellent customer service, cost effectively and efficiently.
John Devaney Engineering excellence 50m of annual Acocks Green bus depot in Birmingham was the first public transport garage in Britain to receive savings delivered a Roadworthiness Award for engineering excellence from the Freight Transport Association.
A perfect match Efficient and reliable An ALSA Supra bus provided Fleet Operations in North the transport when the England America launched a Preventative football team visited Seville for a Maintenance Excellence PMx friendly match against the reigning programme to improve the European champions Spain.
efficiency and reliability of its fleet.
All technicians now have a PMx certification.
06 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Spanish cities.
These are regulated and supported by long- 2009 in overview term concession agreements that provide exclusive rights to 2009 was a challenging year for National Express.
ALSA has a diversified portfolio, an internationally Group faced a succession of difficult issues the global recognised brand and a flexible operating structure that provides recession: the exit from the East Coast rail franchise: the critical financial resilience.
departure of our Chief Executive: the protracted period during which we dealt with a series of potential bidders This strength is mirrored in the UK Coach business, National for the Group: and finally the demanding and complex Express.
With 70% unprompted brand recognition, National refinancing we completed at the end of the year.
Express is the only scheduled national coach operator in the country and the largest in Europe.
Operating in a highly Against all this, we have delivered some positive results.
We deregulated market, the UK Coach business benefits from its sheer reduced costs by 50 million on an annualised basis, secured scale: from the breadth and interconnectivity of its national route incremental cash generation of over 200 million to drive down network, serving over 1,000 domestic destinations, and from its debt, resolved the East Coast rail position, and capped the year flexible, outsourced operational model.
with a strongly supported equity Rights Issue, overall delivering 520 million of debt reduction.
This was followed by a successful Our National Express West Midlands brand operates the largest bond issue.
Together these have delivered an improved capital single urban bus network in the UK outside of London.
In a structure and, as a result, National Express ended 2009 in a far competitive, deregulated market, our UK Bus business enjoys stronger position than it began the year.
For example, operating reliable bus services requires major infrastructure investment in depots and Throughout all this, our businesses on the whole delivered a maintenance facilities.
Our West Midlands network serves a target creditable performance.
The UK Coach business improved population where over 90% live within 250 metres of a bus stop.
profitability by over 25%, despite fewer passengers travelling.
Spains performance was resilient, reducing costs and securing In North America, National Express operates solely in the school new and extended contracts, despite a tough domestic economy bus market.
One of only two operators with true continental and high unemployment.
Our retained UK Rail franchises improved geographic coverage, this is a market based on 3-5 year contracts, profitability and established record operational performance levels.
backed by local public school boards and, despite strong competition, once a contract has been won, the operator faces Normalised continuing profit before tax this year, at 116.2 million, almost no revenue risk.
Whilst this is a substantial fall, the majority of this reduction was a result of the performance of National Express has also built strong operational skills in UK Rail, the loss-making East Coast rail franchise.
Adjusted to exclude just the most deregulated railway system in Europe.
However, 2009 the East Coast normalised operating result from both years, this demonstrated the volatile nature of the current franchising system, profit before tax measure would have been 142.5 million in 2009 where the franchisee is required to guarantee an agreed level of compared to 172.4 million in 2008. service supply, irrespective of customer demand, with little ability to flex costs to respond to changes in customer travel patterns in The East Coast issue has been resolved with a smooth handover the early years of the contract.
With East Coast now handed back, of the franchise to government.
We are now focused on driving National Express can focus on excellence in delivery of its two forward the strong performance of Spain and UK Coach, whilst remaining rail franchises, East Anglia and c2c, until their expected improving margins in North America school bus and UK Bus.
Our robust business model Safety is our top priority.
In 2009, both the UK and Spain reduced National Express is essentially a road passenger transport business, vehicle accident rates.
while retaining a good capability in rail, operating in three main Our businesses give us a combination of core strengths on which geographical markets: the UK, Spain and North America.
Our to build significant contracted revenues from public sector competition is primarily modal, with our customers choosing customers, long-term exclusive concessions and significant between our bus and coach services, versus car, plane or train.
We deliver excellent customer service, cost In both the UK and Spain, we are a market leader in long distance effectively and efficiently.
Our position relative to our peers, having coach and commuter bus operations.
In Spain, ALSA is the less exposure to volatile rail markets, provides a platform to drive largest private operator.
It manages 163 regional and long distance future shareholder value.
concessionary franchises, as well as urban bus services in 24 Keeping customers satisfied Extra capacity Customer satisfaction National Express East Anglia announced it scores for UK Bus hit was adding 188 carriages to provide 11,000 77% an all-time high.
extra seats on its services to and from London Overall satisfaction scores Liverpool Street.
This includes 30 new trains on for UK Coach were up the Stansted Express and West Anglia services.
from 81% to 87%, with driver performance a major factor.
07 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans review continued Our markets in 2009 Delivering key milestones Our performance in 2009 was against the backdrop of very Although the overall financial performance of the Group was difficult markets.
The two main drivers of transport businesses are disappointing after a record 2008, 2009 was a year when we made economic growth GDP and employment.
The decline in GDP real progress in resolving many of the difficult challenges which in 2009, 3.2% in the UK and 3.6% in Spain, led to a reduction in emerged as the recession unfolded.
These included the departure discretionary and business travel, impacting long distance coach of our previous Chief Executive in June 2009 successfully and rail operations.
replaced by Dean Finch in February 2010 and a series of takeover approaches for the Group.
Employment-based travel to work is a major driver for our urban bus and commuter rail operations.
Rising unemployment in the West However, the most significant of the issues to be resolved were Midlands impacted UK Bus, though commuter rail operations saw the impact of the East Coast rail franchise and the Groups high unemployment have less of an impact on performance than might level of debt.
Limiting the impact of the East Coast rail franchise In Spain, several years of strong economic growth came to a halt When National Express won and began operating the East Coast late in 2008: by the end of 2009, official unemployment had risen to main line rail franchise in 2007, it was expected that passenger almost 20%.
This has impacted the regional coach business, where revenue would increase by around 10% a year, based on increasing migrant labour is a key passenger group, while urban operations passenger numbers and fare yield.
With the arrival of recession, were better protected by our concession agreements.
Up to November 2009, annual passenger revenue on the franchise actually declined by 2%.
Forecasts of limited recovery of GDP in 2010 should progressively help passenger volumes in Coach operations.
However, with Therefore, despite significant improvements in service delivery unemployment a lagging indicator to economic recovery, all of our and punctuality, our East Coast franchise rapidly moved into a businesses have therefore responded to manage an environment significant loss as 2009 progressed, exacerbated by increasing where productivity growth, efficiency improvements and cost premia payments to the UK government and it became clear that cutting are the norm.
In 2009, cost reduction has been a major the loss could extend for the life of the franchise.
After extensive and driver to limit the adverse impact of the recession on margins, with difficult discussions with the UK government, we handed back the 50 million of annual savings delivered across the Group by the franchise, in an orderly manner, on 13 November 2009.
In both Spain and the UK, cost management has come to provided 40 million in cash support to cover operating losses on the fore, as we have sought to adapt services to meet the changing the franchise and paid 31.4 million in a performance bond to the patterns of customer demand.
Spain was particularly successful at government.
We retained our two other profitable rail franchises.
reducing operating kilometres, by over 5% year-on-year.
Compared We also provided certainty to shareholders and funding partners.
to many sectors of both economies, however, the bus and coach 56.3 million of the year-on-year fall in the Groups normalised sectors offer a relatively high level of revenue stability.
continuing profit before taxation can be attributed to the East Coast franchise.
Excluding East Coast, the remaining businesses achieved a more resilient outcome to 2009.
Delivered over 200m of incremental cash generation.
Supra service ALSA started running a new Supra Class service between Seville and Granada.
The service has 38 seats and offers passengers more room.
The ticket includes a personalised luggage service, papers and magazines, headset, Wi-Fi and catering.
Better access ALSA provided access lifts for people with disabilities on 16 of its buses on the Madrid to Granada service.
08 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Reducing debt and improving the capital structure In November 2009, shareholders backed our successful Rights Prior to 2008, National Express had increased its debt markedly Issue.
By the end of 2009, net debt had been reduced by to invest in developing the business through acquisitive growth.
521.9 million to 657.9 million with 357.9 million raised from shareholders and 164.0 million from organic cash generation The change in the global financial environment late in 2008 had and self-help measures.
a particularly detrimental effect on the Group.
National Express suffered from restricted banking covenant headroom and limited With our debt gearing ratio reduced to 2.5 times by the end of 2009 funding maturity.
Entering 2009 with nearly 1.2 billion of net bank from 3.5 times a year before our capital structure is improved, debt required significant management attention to ensure the Group our debt level reduced and our debt covenant headroom more remained compliant with its debt covenants, whilst driving flexible.
This was reflected in a successful 350 million, seven year a programme of self-help measures.
Sterling bond issue by the Group in January 2010, which was heavily oversubscribed.
This bond issue has allowed us to pay Much of this came from reducing investment and managing our down significant debt due in 2010 and 2011. working capital better.
But savings also, necessarily, included the passing of the dividend.
Such a decision was difficult for the Board, particularly in a year which saw our share price fall significantly.
However, by year-end, we had delivered over 200 million of incremental cash generation from this self-help programme, more than double the target we had set 12 months earlier of 100 million.
Given the longer term cash generative nature and earnings Net debt reduced potential of the Groups operations, the Board expects to resume a progressive dividend policy once the economic outlook is clearer and refinancing has been completed.
Midland Metro powering down Power consumption was down 5% on 2008 levels following a series of energy-saving measures by the Midland Metro team.
They included timers at tram stops and car parks, improved lighting and more efficient heating.
Record time Two months after being named Britains highest-performing train operator, c2c equalled the punctuality record set in 2008 by Swiss Federal Railways.
With a moving annual average of 95.8% c2c set a new record Passenger Performance Measure for all UK franchised train operators.
One-stop ticket shop National Express opened an all in one sales desk in the arrivals hall at Stansted Airport, enabling passengers to buy coach and train tickets from a single location.
Oyster Cards for the London transport network and tourist information are also available.
Just the ticket ALSA became the first passenger transport company in Spain to sell tickets through the 8,000 La Caixa cashpoints, the countrys largest ATM network.
This almost doubles the number of points of sale available to ALSA passengers.
09 9 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Chairmans review continued In North America, 2009 was a disappointing year, with normalised Focusing on business performance operating profit down to 25.3 million from 32.5 million in 2008, We believe that our actions have drawn a line under a difficult despite currency translation benefits.
We remain confident that our year, establishing a platform to deliver long-term benefit to our investment programme will help us to reduce costs and improve shareholders.
We believe we can demonstrate: revenue, but the benefits are coming through more slowly than we an ability to manage our ongoing operations effectively, despite had hoped.
Recent changes to the senior management team are challenging trading conditions, and to deliver resilient underlying aimed at steadily restoring profitability in the business from 2010 performance: onwards, while refocusing our business recovery project on the a strong operational capability across the Group to deliver areas of greatest benefit.
excellent customer service, minimise costs and take advantage Delivering a simple, effective strategy of new business opportunities: and a focus on driving the inherent cash generation qualities of each With the major issues impacting the Groups structure and business to improve shareholder value.
performance now resolved, we developed a strong interim strategy, ahead of the arrival of our new Chief Executive, Dean Finch, who In 2009, our ongoing businesses benefited from the leading market joined the Company in February 2010.
Building on the simple position we have in almost all of the markets in which we operate.
strengths of a public transport business, it is a back-to-basics Our UK Coach business, for example, carried over 18 million approach, designed to deliver greater shareholder value from passengers in the year.
However, it was the business operating increased focus on the Groups core businesses.
This strategy model which helped us deliver so strongly, with a flexible cost is focused on: structure that sees the majority of services outsourced to third-party operators.
This has proved to be adaptable and resilient during the maximising cash generation: recession, with costs adjusted to meet changing customer demand.
delivering greater cost savings to drive margins: and Normalised operating profit for the UK Coach business increased protecting and growing revenue selectively.
Maximising cash generation In Spain, we benefited from scale and flexibility in our domestic bus Our business is naturally cash generative and, throughout 2009, and coach services, as well as from organic growth in North Africa.
we have sought to strengthen our balance sheet by focusing on Effective cost management resulted in a limited profit decline in cash generation to reduce debt in 2009 we improved operating 2009.
Despite the severity of the recession, our Spanish business cash generation from 152.3 million in 2008 to 281.3 million.
still produced a normalised operating profit of 76.5 million, We continue to target deleveraging to further increase the Groups compared to 83.3 million in 2008. financial flexibility by improving operating cash flow and disposing of non-core assets where values are appropriate.
Success in other parts of the Group was more limited.
Normalised operating profits in the UK Bus business were down from 40.0 Delivering cost savings million in 2008 to 20.8 million.
While predicted increases in In 2009, our cost saving programmes delivered 50 million of fuel and pension costs, together with significant higher regional annualised savings.
We successfully reduced operating mileage by unemployment, have impacted the business as well as the loss of 3-5% in the UK and Spain, in response to lower passenger traffic.
profits from the sale of the Travel London operation progress was We made initial progress in reducing the proportion of revenue we made reducing overhead costs and operating mileage.
Delivering spend on driver wages in North America, saving over US$7 million improvements to UK Bus will be high on our list of priorities for 2010. in 2009.
Going forward, we want to achieve best in class operating cost delivery in each business.
This will particularly target margin improvement in UK Bus and North America.
Help for veterans National Express provided a free coach service for more than 700 World War II veterans from around Britain to attend the 65th anniversary of D-Day at Westminster Abbey.
Customer service drive National Express Corporations Driver Operations in North America launched customer service training for drivers and monitors on its school buses.
The training covered how to interact with students, parents and teachers as well as handling difficult situations.
10 National Express Group PLC Operating Performance and Corporate Financial Overview review financial review responsibility Governance statements Selective growth Looking ahead We are focused on achieving organic growth in existing markets We expect 2010 to be another challenging year.
Low price inflation and on developing business in new markets where we can create will leave limited scope to grow fare yields, and all our businesses value.
In 2009, ALSA won a 15-year contract to operate urban bus will continue to focus on cost reduction to manage limited or zero services in the Moroccan city of Agadir.
National Express coaches passenger volume growth.
This, together with lower fuel costs and saw a 12% increase in passengers travelling to major events, despite selective revenue growth opportunities, is expected to improve the recession.
Going forward, the Groups core bus and coach overall margin and should enable us to drive shareholder value.
operations are well placed, reputationally and financially, to access While 2009 was dominated by the need to resolve major issues profitable growth as national economies recover from recession.
in the Groups capital structure and business portfolio, we believe Delivering great customer service that in 2010 we will be able to focus on operational improvement National Express is a service business and we will not prosper and building on the foundations that we have laid.
National Express if we fail to deliver the service that our customers expect.
has many strengths and there is significant scope for improvement in some areas of our business, including UK Bus and our North Despite the state of the economy, we have continued to deliver American businesses.
The UK Coach business opened the Dean Finch inherits a senior management team that has worked Birmingham Coach Station on time and ready for Christmas exceptionally hard to put the Group on a sound footing, and a travellers.
This 15 million investment symbolises the style of workforce of over 40,000 committed individuals, whose combined modern coach travel that we now offer with its leather seats and efforts will enable him and the Group to assess and drive onboard Wi-Fi.
We have transformed a run-down bus terminus into forward opportunities.
a flagship that air travellers could envy.
It will also become home to our new corporate head office during 2010, with associated John Devaney cost savings from closing our current office in London.
Chairman 25 February 2010 Our new customer ticketing lounge at Stansted Airport has supported a return to year-on-year growth in airport coach routes and, in the UK Bus business, new partnerships are allowing the Group to develop tailored plans with local authorities to match changing customer demand.
In UK Rail, both of our remaining franchises have delivered record service levels, including the bestever punctuality performance by a UK train operating company.
In Spain, we continue to expand web ticketing as customer buying patterns change, and have introduced more premium coaches and Wi-Fi capability.
In North America, we provided a school board customer in Illinois with a new bus routing solution which reduced buses by 33%, mileage by 29% and total route hours by 23%.
We will continue to offer outstanding and improved service to all our customers.
15m Flagship coach station opens The new 15 million National Express Birmingham Coach Station was opened following a two-year redevelopment programme.
England Football Manager Fabio Capello did the honours.
