Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chairmans statement on corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance and role of the board The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance and business integrity, which it believes are essential to maintaining the trust of its investors and other stakeholders.
The board provides leadership for the Group and is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims and standards of conduct, monitoring performance against business plans and budgets prepared by the executive team and ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives.
All directors and employees are required to act fairly, honestly and with integrity and they are all subject to a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, a copy of which is published on the corporate website at www.
The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Awards for 2009: reserved for its decision, which includes the approval 2009 Techmark Technology Innovation Award of major business issues, policies and operating and UK International Trade Award for 2009 sponsored capital expenditure budgets.
It is also responsible for by HSBC sanctioning unusual commercial arrangements such as atypical licence agreements and investments.
Thomson Reuters Extel Best Investor Relations Authority is delegated to various committees that in FTSE 250, Best CFO Investor Relations in FTSE 250 are constituted within written terms of reference and chaired by independent non-executive directors where Introduction required by the Combined Code.
The Chairman has I am pleased to say that ARM demonstrated resilience in primary responsibility for running the board and the an extraordinarily tough year in 2009 and is well placed Chief Executive Officer has executive responsibilities to take advantage of the potential recovery in the wider for the operations and results of the Group and making economy and in consumer demand in 2010.
It is also proposals to the board for the strategic development of encouraging that our market capitalisation has increased the Group.
There are clear and documented divisions of to merit re-entry into the FTSE 100 on 8 February 2010. accountability and responsibility for the roles of Chairman Our designs were used in more than 3.9 billion chips and Chief Executive Officer.
in 2009, across an ever increasing range of products, Directors and succession planning broadening an already impressive footprint and The board reflects a balance between financial, sector entrenching ARM as a leader not only in chip designs for specific and general business skills, with a highly mobile applications, but also in consumer electronics such experienced international team leading the business in as digital TVs and cameras, enterprise applications such both executive and non-executive roles.
It was key to as Wi-Fi and disk drivers and embedded products such guiding ARM in the challenging economic environment as motor controllers and smartcards.
in 2009, providing clear strategic direction and ensuring that the Groups performance and standards of conduct ARM designs were in more than 3.9 billion remained at expected levels.
There were no board changes during 2009.
At the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2010 Lucio Lanza retires ARMs board and executive team recognise that by rotation and has decided not to stand for re-election.
continued success has been achieved through the He has been a director since 2004 when ARM acquired strength and depth of our stakeholder relationships.
The Artisan, of which he was Chairman from 1997.
On behalf corporate governance framework and processes we have of the Group and my board colleagues, I would like to in place enable us to manage the Company effectively thank Lucio for the valuable contribution he has made and to demonstrate transparent, consistent and effective over the past five years through his extensive knowledge governance so that we remain accountable to our of the semiconductor industry and the US market.
As part shareholders, employees, Partners, suppliers and the of our succession plans, John Scarisbrick, who has been a local communities we support and interact with.
director since August 2001, will be retiring from the board Compliance with the Combined Code and the Sarbanesat the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
The Nomination Oxley Act 2002 US Committee has started the process of identifying suitable The Groups corporate governance framework is built replacements for these non-executive director roles and around three pillars: organisation and structure, the details will be announced at the appropriate time.
internal control framework and independent assurance.
ARM takes corporate governance very seriously and has integrated governance principles, policies and practices into our everyday working processes.
This approach is backed by continuous improvement based on measurement against internal objectives, external audits and benchmarking and a rigorous approach to risk management.
The Group continued to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
29 Chairmans statement on corporate governance and corporate responsibility continued Remuneration Corporate responsibility ARM continued its conservative approach to remuneration ARM continued its support for science and IT related in 2009, in line with market uncertainty around the education through the Engineering Education Scheme, timing and scope of the global economic recovery.
We Young Engineers and Young Enterprise, the Cambridge maintained a freeze on pay at all levels throughout 2009 University Entrepreneurs, University of Texas College the only exception being for employee promotions and of Communication, Cambridge University Engineering we continued to retain and recruit the talented people Society and primary educational establishments.
who are critical to the continued success of our business.
In January 2009, ARM was presented with a 1 star Despite the tough market conditions over the past two award in the Sunday Times Best Company to Work For years, the minimum targets set three years ago under the survey, recognising us as a first-class employer Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP were exceeded and our See page 37 teams will be rewarded for their performance, details of which are set out in full in the Remuneration Report.
The board is not proposing any new remuneration schemes Our commitment to the environment extends beyond the or any changes to the existing LTIP and Deferred Annual energy efficiency and power saving that our technologyBonus Plan in 2010. based chips help to achieve.
In our UK offices, where ARM procures its own energy, supplies are from renewable Engagement with stakeholders sources and a greener energy procurement policy is being We continued to develop our engagement with extended to our other offices where possible.
stakeholders in 2009, strengthening our relationships and expanding the ARM network of Partners and our Our technology allows our Partners to develop smarter Connected Community.
digital electronic products that can measure, manage and control the environmental performance of consumer ARMs University Programme is an important initiative electronics and IT equipment, improving performance and for the future of the business and our relationships with reducing the carbon footprint for some of the products that business partners.
We engage with universities around the we all use, every day.
ARM is working with suppliers to world, developing the next generation of ARM engineers, minimise environmental impact.
donating equipment and software, assisting students, helping to design courses and providing technical support In the UK, ARMs recycling of cardboard and paper and training.
In 2009 the programme strengthened its grew by 105% from 2006 to 2009 commitment to institutions in India and China to nurture See page 38 growing talent.
ARM and our Partners are seeing the benefit of the University Programme as students are graduating with experience in designing with ARM More details about our approach to corporate products and as university engineering departments responsibility is set out in the Corporate Responsibility base their own research around ARM technology.
Report, a more detailed version of which is published on our website at www.
Throughout 2009 ARM has supported the Cambridge 2010 marks ARMs 20th anniversary Network which links like-minded people from business As a business recognised for its innovation and world and academia See page 38 class intellectual property, ARM has been built around the highest quality people in the sector.
As we enter our I am also pleased to report major progress in our 20th year as leader in our market, I would like to thank engagement with investors and sell-side analysts in 2009, the teams worldwide who have made ARM a great where the number of analysts covering the Company success story.
doubled to about 30, increasing support and advice for Our stakeholders and Partners will continue to benefit our investors, specifically those in the US.
We plan to further from our open, clear and consistent approach in 2010 and enhance investor support in 2010 through improved beyond as we expand into our targeted market segments online communications giving investors better access to and position ARM for further decades of success.
the information they need to understand ARMs business, its strategy and how ARM is progressing against its key performance metrics.
