Directors Report: Corporate governance Chairmans introduction The Tullow Board seeks to function in a manner that encourages open and honest discussion in an environment of trust and mutual respect.
At the heart of our continued success lie the principles of good governance and corporate responsibility, which Pat Plunkett underpin our ability to deliver our business plans and strategy.
Chairman Governance highlights for the year are summarised in my statement on pages 16 and 17.
2009 Board evaluation 2009 Objectives and performance The internal 2009 Board evaluation undertaken by the Ensure that the Group stays on target with its key Senior Independent Director concluded that there had been 2009 business plans considerable progress since the last full external evaluation The Group delivered very well against its KPIs for the year.
New Directors have settled in well to their Board See pages 18 and 19 for more information.
duties and contribute fully at meetings.
Corporate strategy is well defined, understood and disseminated throughout Review Board Committees and processes the organisation and to all stakeholders.
The re-ordering of The Boards Committees continued to operate efficiently, and Board agendas in 2009 focused debate on the key strategic although consideration was given to changing the composition issues facing the Group and communication with employees of the Committees it was felt that the current structure continued has improved substantially.
Improvement in communications between Rebalancing Board time the Committees and the Board will be actioned in 2010.
While we did not record Board discussion topics by the hour the chart below is indicative of the themes and matters, Define and progress succession planning which occupied us most during the year.
In such a fastSome initiatives have been taken but there is more to do.
paced organisation that operates in a very dynamic See 2010 Board objectives.
environment, one of the key roles of the Board is to respond and reprioritise matters as appropriate and this we did, Undertake key risk reporting, mitigation and process evaluation for example, when Tullow had its first fatality and when Excellent progress was made risk management identification, Heritage Oil plc announced the sale of its Ugandan assets.
mitigation and action-orientated monthly reporting.
In addition to a strong strategic focus at Board meetings, Risk management is on page 62 to 65. another new feature is invitations to external experts to meet with the Board with a view to broadening our minds Enhance Board meeting administration systems on topical issues.
Some improvements were made but further efficiencies are targeted.
Increased direct interaction with staff The Board visited Cape Town for three days in June and through general staff gatherings, presentations and other Strategy including portfolio management initiatives significantly increased our level of direct interaction Topics discussed at 2009 and acquisitions, corporate planning, Board meetings with all employees during the year.
Four non-executive strategy days and external presentations Directors visited Kampala and our Ugandan field operations Corporate Governance, including in 2009 and one visited Accra and our shore base facilities.
7.5% Combined Code compliance, Code of The response to these initiatives has been very rewarding 7.5% Business conduct: and related matters and positive.
From the Executive and Board perspective it Financial Management including liquidity, reflects the importance of making leadership more visible 10% 40% banking, investor relations, hedging and and showing strong commitment to the Group, together financing generally with fostering a unified Tullow culture particularly as our P&D, key projects particularly Ghana employee numbers have increased 46% and 24% in 2008 15% and Uganda, major project milestones, and 2009 respectively.
relations with stakeholders E&A including exploration campaigns 10% 10% and new exploration business areas EHS including Bangladesh fatality HR including organisational growth and challenges 78 Tullow Oil plc 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Strong shareholder and employee relations 2010 Board objectives The support of our shareholders has been fundamental to the success of Tullow.
We have a very active annual Investor The following are the key 2010 Board objectives.
Relations programme that allows us to understand and take A review of progress will be undertaken mid-year due regard of different shareholder priorities.
We undertook by Pat Plunkett, Chairman and Graham Martin, an independent investment community survey in the first General Counsel and Company Secretary.
quarter of this year and the headline results are excellent.
Tullows Investor Relations efforts were rated very highly Corporate strategy on a global and FTSE 100 scale and this is mirrored by the Ensure Board focus is on high-level issues Award for the most effective overall Annual Report printed and strategy: and and online in the FTSE 100 for our 2008 Annual Report.
There were some significant strategic challenges to the Invite suitable external advisers and speakers Board arising from the survey which we will begin to address to Board meetings to stimulate discussion once the full report has been presented in April.
grown we have also invested in developing human resource initiatives and fostering employee engagement.
The results Succession planning of our latest global employee survey are presented on Appoint external advisers: page 75 of this report.
Consider matters within Nominations New External Affairs initiatives Committee Terms of Reference: In 2009, recognising the need to match our growing social Develop clear roadmap for non-executive Director responsibilities and wider reputation management issues refreshment and Chairman succession: we established an External Affairs function.
It is early days Increase African profile of Tullow Board, yet but part of their remit will be to reshape our approach management and staff: and to corporate responsibility, review the corporate social Consider development plan for each of responsibility committee, improve our external stakeholder the Executives and senior management.
engagement processes and drive a major revamp of social enterprise and community investment initiatives.
Board training and administration Consistently improving how we run Tullow Select suitable external courses for 2009 built on what has been an extraordinary period of non-executive Directors and Executives growth and success for Tullow.
Throughout this time one and formalise Directors training register: of our guiding goals has always been to consistently become Continue to review membership of a better run company.
We have committed ourselves to being sub-committees: and open and transparent with our employees, owners, partners, government and other key stakeholders.
This has helped us Investigate electronic web based solutions generate trust, demonstrate accountability and build our for Board administration.
At the heart of this lies how governance and corporate responsibility considerations are integrated into Board visibility and Group communications our strategy and strategic priorities.
We reflect them in Attendance of Directors at Group functions: how we run our business on a day-to-day basis and how Demonstrate support for key offices: decisions are made, including how risk management Consider further non-executive Director visits is embedded into our business model.
They are equally to key offices: and reflected in how your Board operates and the activities we undertake and prioritise during the year.
Improve accessibility of Board to all staff.
com 79 Directors Report: Corporate governance
