8 Annual report and accounts 2009 Message from the Chairman Thanks to our high-calibre people Planning and then implementing the right strategic direction for the business can only be successful if we attract, retain and actively develop the best people in our industry.
Steve Marshall Chairman Our business Annual report and accounts 2009 9 I am pleased to report that Balfour Beatty had another good Recognising the increased scale and scope of Balfour Beattys year in 2009. operations in the US, it is intended to seek a non-executive Director, with an appropriate level of US operating experience, during 2010.
The acquisition of Parsons Brinckerhoff PB realised a number of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
People PB is a high-quality business specialising in the programme and Of course, planning and then implementing the right strategic direction project management of large, complex infrastructure developments.
for the business can only be successful if we attract, retain and actively We now have a leading presence in the professional services market, develop the best people in our industry.
which has been one of our key strategic goals for some time.
Over 50,000 people are now directly employed by the Group and one of Professional services plays an increasingly important role at the outset the things that really sets us apart is the scope of opportunities that we of major infrastructure projects around the world.
PB strengthens our can offer.
ability to serve infrastructure markets and enhances the Groups Balfour Beatty is an exciting place to be and we are working hard to long-term growth potential.
harness the energy and expertise in the Group.
We have now created an integrated portfolio of substantial businesses Providing challenging projects to work on, putting in place a series of operating in four related market sectors: Professional services, programmes to get the best out of our people and encouraging a strong Construction services, Support services and Infrastructure investments sense of Group-wide co-operation and shared values takes time and with significant capabilities in each part of the lifecycle of infrastructure effort, but ultimately becomes a virtuous circle.
Increasingly, major infrastructure owners are looking to their core industry partners to integrate these capabilities so as to reduce At the recent Senior Management Conference in London, it was cost and eliminate risk.
instructive to note that over 50% of our top 250 managers had been with the Group for more than 10 years.
Many others became part of Through this combination of businesses, and the diversity of our Balfour Beatty as a result of acquisitions made in recent years.
geographic and end-user markets, we have created a model for long-term success, which has the balance and resilience to counter Doing the right thing the economic uncertainties that remain in some of our markets, and While we focus on driving the business forward in difficult markets, the Group is well-positioned to take advantage of growth as it occurs.
we also need to maintain a clear view of our culture, our values and The scale and scope of Balfour Beattys operations have been the elements that make up our licence to operate.
Our revenues are now in excess of We are making progress in many areas.
10bn and we operate in more than 100 countries around the world.
In becoming a much more international business, we have reduced Our Group-wide safety campaign, Zero Harm, has had real success in our relative exposure to UK markets, which, looking forward, account raising awareness of the standards we aspire to.
We have set the bar for around 54% of Group revenues.
And in the US, we now have at a very high level but continued progress towards our goal is required a significant presence with sales in excess of US$5bn and around if we are to thrive in a global market in which sophisticated customers 10,000 employees.
now rightly view safety as a decisive competitive differentiator.
Operationally, we benefited in 2009 from continued expenditure in There have been other serious reputational issues we have had to infrastructure markets.
Our strong focus on effective and efficient contend with.
While the Office of Fair Tradings industry-wide delivery for customers helped us to achieve a pre-tax profit of 267m investigation into tender activities in the UK construction market related before exceptional items and amortisation, a 7% increase on the to the practices of a number of years ago, there are important lessons previous year.
As a market leader, not only do we have to take the lead in eradicating Dividend any possibility of a repeat performance, we have to be right at the The Board is proposing a final dividend of 7.2p per ordinary share, forefront of responsible behaviour and processes and enlightened making a total dividend of 12.0p for the year, an increase of 8%.
The Board We have produced a new Code of Conduct for all our employees and Given the broadened scope of the Group, it is imperative that we are working hard to uphold a common culture based on the shared continue to review the make-up of the Board.
Andrew McNaughton values of integrity, teamwork, excellence and respect.
was appointed Chief Operating Officer and joined the Board on 1 January 2009.
The future Balfour Beatty has created a high-quality business operating across Graham Roberts joined the Board as a non-executive Director on the infrastructure lifecycle, which is uniquely placed in major markets 1 January 2009 and became chairman of the Audit Committee on to benefit from the long-term growth in investment in infrastructure.
Graham is finance director of The British Land Company PLC and has brought valuable financial and commercial experience.
I am confident that our business model and the calibre of our people will combine to deliver genuine resilience, not least as publicly-funded Iain Ferguson was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 January infrastructure investment inevitably comes under medium-term 2010.
His extensive international operational experience and his pressure in some markets.
strategic insight, latterly in his capacity as chief executive of Tate & Lyle PLC, will make a significant contribution in the coming years.
The trend for infrastructure owners increasingly to rely on the capabilities of their trusted partners plays to our strengths.
In August 2009, we announced that Stephen Howard was standing down as a non-executive Director from the Board.
I would like to thank I strongly believe we have the capability to become a global leader Steve for his contribution to the Companys success over the three in infrastructure services.
years of his tenure and wish him well.
