ashmore Group pLC ar 09 GovernanCe report from the Chairman of the audit Committee 38 report from the Chairman of the audit committee audit committee effectiveness The composition and summary terms The committee recommended to of reference of the audit committee the Board that a resolution be put to The members of the committee are set out on page 32. shareholders for the re-appointment conducted a review of its effectiveness of the auditors, and their remuneration and concluded that it was working The principal activities of the audit and terms of engagement, at the Annual effectively.
committee through the year were General Meeting of the Company.
as follows: nick Land Chairman of the Audit Committee From time to time during the year the financial statements non-executives met with the external auditors without the executive Directors 14 September 2009 The audit committee reviewed the being present.
2009 Annual Report, Interim Results, Preliminary Results and reports from internal controls the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, on the outcome of their reviews and The committee reviewed and evaluated audits in 2009. the system of internal controls and risk management operated within external auditors the Company.
The committee met with the external A detailed report on internal control auditors during the year to review the can be found on pages 34 and 35. scope of their audit and findings thereon for the interim and year-end financial internal audit statements.
During the year the committee The committee received a considered the Groups need for an comprehensive presentation from internal audit function.
This involved the auditors demonstrating to its consideration of whether to implement satisfaction how their independence an internal or an outsourced function and objectivity is maintained when and the nature and scope of the work providing non-audit services.
it would undertake, taking account of the existing compliance monitoring The committee has agreed the types programmes which were already in of permitted and non-permitted service place.
The committee concluded that and those which require explicit prior the best interests of the Group would approval.
Permitted non-audit services be served through an outsourced include the provision of tax compliance model and with effect from 1 July 2009, services and acting as reporting following a recommendation from accountant in appropriate circumstances, the committee, the Board approved provided there is no element of valuation the appointment of Ernst & Young to work involved.
The provision of tax undertake this work.
Further details advisory services, due diligence can be found in the Internal Control transaction services and litigation section of the Corporate governance services may be permitted with the report on pages 34 and 35. committees prior approval.
The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review are not permitted under any circumstance.
