BP Annual Review 2009 Chairmans letter I have joined BP at an exciting and testing time for the energy industry and the wider world.
Crisis in the global economy has asked tough questions of everyone.
Meanwhile, two long-term issues require our continued attention the high growth in energy demand expected over coming years, and the complex challenges created by climate change.
Naturally, more and more people want to improve their quality of life, and a reliable supply of affordable energy is central to meeting their needs and aspirations.
Sharing the bene ts of energy with communities around the world represents important human progress, but this must be achieved with care.
Such pressing matters place BP at the heart of what is important to society.
While many of the groups operations are conducted far from our towns and cities, what we produce is essential to everyday life.
I have been here only a short time, but I have already seen in action the remarkable skills and technology that nd and extract raw materials and turn them into muchneeded energy products.
I am particularly impressed by the professionalism and sheer tenacity of the BP people I have met.
There is a powerful spirit here.
This spirit can be seen clearly within the executive team, under the leadership of Tony Hayward.
Their focus on safety, operational performance and culture has produced great results across the group, despite tough market conditions.
There is still more to do, and I look forward to working with them as BP moves A revitalized forward.
Our employees have also shown considerable determination over the past 12 months.
They have helped to BP drive a notable and continuing business transformation and I thank them for their commitment.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Chairman 26 February 2010 Highlights BP playing key role in addressing the energy challenge.
Strong board enhanced by new appointments.
Powerful spirit among BP people.
2 The success of BP today is, in many ways, The financial crisis has highlighted concerns We will continue to contribute to debate testament to Peter Sutherlands unique about the way in which companies operate.
around public policy, and intend to help style in leading the board.
As chairman for In some cases, levels of trust between shape and lead the energy industry of 12 years and non-executive board director boards of directors and shareholders have tomorrow.
People need BP to keep doing for 14 years, Peter steered the group through been impacted.
From my early contact with what it does best.
He leaves a strong BP that BP shareholders, I understand that the BP I recognize that many institutions and is well positioned for further success.
As board has long been actively engaged in individuals rely on BP for a consistent return a board, we thank him for his exceptional dialogue.
I strongly endorse and encourage on their investment and the board takes contribution.
We also thank those nonthis and intend to build on such good seriously its responsibilities in this regard.
executives who are to leave after the annual practice.
BP is respected for its leadership Our task is to achieve the best balance general meeting.
Sir Ian Prosser departs on governance and we will keep looking of our sources and uses of cash, making after 12 years of outstanding service, for ways to enhance how we govern and investments to generate long-term business including 10 years as deputy chairman.
momentum while managing debt and Erroll Davis, Jr joined in 1998 and played Risk remains a key issue for every realizing steady rewards for shareholders.
an important role in key non-executive business, but at BP it is fundamental to Over the past year we have demonstrated committees.
Sir Tom McKillop joined in what we do.
We operate at the frontiers our ability to achieve this despite a very 2004 and chose to retire this year, having of the energy industry, in an environment volatile business environment.
While we made a strong impression.
I know my where attitude to risk is key.
The countries cannot control the price of oil we can control fellow board members greatly appreciate we work in, the technical and physical the ef ciency of our own operations, and the their contributions.
challenges we take on and the investments improving performance within the group will We are now in the process of we make these all demand a sharp focus help us to balance financial priorities.
The appointing experienced and talented on how we manage risk.
We must never quarterly dividend, to be paid in March, is newcomers to the board.
I have worked shrink from taking on dif cult challenges, 14 cents per share $0.84 per ADS, the closely with colleagues on the nominations but the board will strive to set high same as a year ago.
In sterling terms, the committee to select individuals whose expectations of how risk is managed quarterly dividend is 8.679 pence per share, skills match the needs of the business and remain vigilant on oversight.
compared with 9.818 pence a year ago.
As is well known, BP responded We are now proposing to introduce As part of our continuing refreshment of early to the issue of climate change.
For those the board, I am delighted that Paul Anderson group has made substantial investments shareholders who choose to take their has recently joined the board and that Ian in alternative energies and in lower-carbon dividend in shares, rather than cash, Davis will join in April 2010.
Our clear fossil fuels such as natural gas.
We support the issuing of scrip shares is an objective as a board is to sustain the success the low-carbon evolution, but must also attractive alternative.
of the group and I can tell you that we will continue to produce the high-quality So, I thank shareholders for their not lack ambition.
BP has driven itself back hydrocarbons required by a world with continued support.
The group has recently to competitive tness: we must ensure we a growing population, growing economies celebrated its centenary and I relish the build on the hard work of the past three and greater mobility.
opportunity to lead the board as we move years and continue to grow a successful into a second century.
We operate in a and enduring company.
We now have the fast-moving world full of profound challenges opportunity to plot the groups future position and opportunities, but I see no reason why within a changing energy landscape.
a t and determined BP cannot thrive in this environment and remain at the heart of society for many years to come.
Our market Read about key issues affecting the energy market on pages 8-9.
BP has driven itself back to competitive tness: we must ensure we build on the hard work of the past three years and continue to grow a successful and enduring company.
