Any shares voted by an investor in excess of the Articles of association maximum limit will remain valid, but will not form part It is proposed to adopt new articles of association of the proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the of the Company in order to reflect further changes in right to exclude their shares from the proportional company law brought about by the Companies Act voting arrangement.
2006 CA 2006, the final parts of which came into effect on 1 October 2009, and the implementation of Charitable donations the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations It is the Boards policy not to make charitable donations, 2009, which came into force on 3 August 2009 as the role of an investment trust is somewhat different Resolution 10. from most other types of companies and as taxation incentives towards charitable donations are balanced Annual General Meeting in favour of direct contributions by individuals rather Shareholders will have received a separate enclosure than companies.
Therefore, no such contributions were containing explanatory information and the Notice of made during the year.
the Annual General Meeting the Meeting to be held at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, Independent auditors London EC2 on 6 May 2010 at 12 noon.
In addition to So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant the ordinary business of the Meeting, resolutions 8 to audit information of which  11 will be proposed as special business.
LLP the Auditors are unaware.
The Directors believe that they have each taken all the steps Retirement of the Chairman that they ought to have taken as Directors in order Mark Loveday, who has been chairman of the to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Company for the last eight years, retires immediately information and to establish that the Auditors are after the Annual General Meeting.
The Board would aware of the information.
like to express its gratitude to Mark, and record its The Auditors have indicated their willingness to appreciation of the extraordinary dedication he has continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at shown to the prosperity of the Company and its the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them and shareholders throughout his tenure.
determine their remuneration Resolutions 6 and 7.
By order of the Board, for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited, Secretary 4 March 2010 Report and Accounts 2009 27
