Chairmans statement With our commitment to customers comes This has been a challenging year for a sense of responsibility in the way we do customers and for businesses alike.
In particular, we are making As turbulence in the financial markets good progress in expanding our contribution has been followed by pressures in the in three key areas: helping to create a healthy broader economy and on household environment: encouraging participation in budgets, consumer-facing businesses sport: and opening up the arts to more people.
We believe that seeing this bigger picture is have experienced a tougher environment a key part of durable success and long-term than has been seen for some time.
While no business is immune from On behalf of the Board, I would like to express these pressures, Sky has stood out for its gratitude for the contribution of the two strong performance against this difficult Non-Executive Directors who stepped down backdrop.
Unlike many companies in the during the last year.
Chase Carey retired from the Board in February 2009 after six years media sector, our business has been built valued service.
Lord Jacob Rothschild stepped on direct relationships with customers, down in September 2008 after acting as a and our focus on quality, choice and committed and independent Deputy Chairman value has positioned us well to meet of our Board for more than four years.
Both their needs in hard times as well as good.
have provided leadership, support and counsel through challenging and important periods for James Murdoch 2009 has been a year of achievement, with the Company.
Personally I will miss them both, Chairman more customers choosing Sky for a broader as I know will the whole team at Sky.
range of entertainment and communications services than ever.
Twenty years on from our I would also like to welcome Tom Mockridge launch in February 1989, we have passed to the Board following his appointment as the milestone of nine million customers and a Non-Executive Director in February 2009. we are deepening our relationships with As Chief Executive of Sky Italia and Chief those families through our expansion into Executive, European Television at News broadband and telephony.
Corporation, Tom brings further experience of international pay television to the Board.
Everyone associated with Sky should take pride in the achievements of the Companys In my first full year as Non-Executive Chairman, first two decades.
We have built one of the I would like to give thanks for the commitment UK and Irelands leading businesses by and expertise with which the entire Board continually challenging the status quo and continues to guide the Company.
I would also striving to bring more choices to more people.
like to thank all of our 16,000 colleagues at Sky for the passion and dedication they have In an industry that has often relied on brought to the Company and its customers public intervention and subsidy, our story over the last year.
is a demonstration of how risk-taking and investment by private enterprise delivers In a reflection of our strong performance in good outcomes for consumers.
Sky has been challenging conditions, the Board proposes a constant force for change and progress: a 5% increase in the full year dividend to opening up choice in television: investing in 17.6 pence per share.
high-quality content: innovating to improve the customer experience: and adapting to We thank all shareholders for their continued embrace new opportunities as entertainment support as we look ahead with optimism to and communications come together.
02 B ritish Sky Broadcasting Group plc Annual Review 2009
