21 Worldwide Executive Chairmans review John Pluthero All of our work has delivered EBITDA growth in Executive Chairman 2008 09 of 107 million to 326 million, of which Worldwide 29 million is from Thus.
Our EBITDA margin continues to expand and now stands at 14%, up at least two percentage points in each of the last four half years.
And we shouldnt forget that we have achieved a full year of positive trading cash flow, despite the cost of integrating Thus the first for many years.
Weve come a long way in the last three years.
Weve reached the point where were providing However, none of our success means were immune mission critical telecoms for many of the worlds to the current economic environment.
coming year our attention will be on discipline, prudence and controlling our costs something Back in November 2005, when Cable & Wireless weve had a lot of practice at over the last three acquired Energis, nobody could have predicted years.
Some of our customers are having to resize the conditions we find in todays marketplace: a their aspirations, and when they feel pain, so do we.
global downturn, a new competitive landscape and But with the plans that we have in place a firm hand customers looking to us as the industrys safe pair on costs and a business model our customers love of hands.
were better placed than many to weather the current Yet this is where we are, and were well positioned economic climate.
to take advantage of the opportunities that these My aim for the future of this business is clear were conditions present.
Weve now completed the bulk going to be the first choice for providing mission of our turnaround and are a far fitter, leaner and more critical telecoms to large organisations.
We now have market-leading capability our Multi Service Platform Finally, I must thank our colleagues.
Their dedication, is live and being used by more than 150 customers talent and commitment is what drives us forward.
whilst our fixed mobile convergence product gives Their ingenuity and innovation allow us to offer new our customers a powerful new telecoms solution capability, and their knowledge and foresight keep with the potential to help drive down their costs.
us ahead of the competition around the world.
Three years of delivery have restored their ambition and Were expanding in key areas around the globe belief in our business, and thats an asset that will in response to customer demand, which is why provide a handsome return in the years to come.
weve changed our name to Worldwide it better reflects both our reach and our aspirations.
And our acquisition of Thus during the year has given us additional scale in the UK enterprise market and significant cost saving opportunities from the integration.
WEVE COME A LONG WAY IN THE LAST THREE YEARS... AND THERES MORE TO GO FOR Business review
