GOVERNANCE ChAiRmANs iNtROduCtiON Corporate governance a key foundation for our business success It is essential that our governance continues to adapt to the ever more demanding business landscape.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman Achievements during 2009 Priorities for 2010 Actuarial expertise on the Board strengthened Full rollout and embedding of our new Group Operating Model New Chairman appointed Separation of the functions of the Group Group representation on subsidiary boards Audit and Risk Committee into two separate strengthened Boardlevel committees Risk appetite refined and further embedded into Addressing other recommendations in the our operational decisionmaking processes Walker Review Planning for Board succession and renewal Active participation in the continuing debate about improving governance We have made progress in streamlining the of our governance process.
The Risk and Capital Old Mutual Group during 2009, including by Management Report earlier in this document strengthening our governance framework and provides an overview of the progress we have made procedures.
This was one of our Group Chief in this area and describes some of the challenges Executive, Julian Roberts, five key priorities for that lie ahead.
2009 and has been an area of focus throughout the The governance of UKlisted banks and other year.
We have followed through on his pledge to large financial institutions BOFIs was the subject ensure that appropriate assurance is implemented of the Walker Review, which published various and maintained over the Groups activities and recommendations in November 2009.
As part of this, we have clarified is categorised as a BOFI and will be determining reporting lines at Group Executive Committee level, its response to these recommendations over the strengthened the representation of the Group on coming months.
In addition, we will be addressing major subsidiary boards and developed a new certain recommendations that emerged from our Group Operating Model based on strategic control own Board effectiveness review conducted during rather than the highly decentralised structure that 2009 in conjunction with external facilitators.
As it is implemented during We have already made a number of changes as 2010, this model will replace our current Scheme of a result of these developments, as described in Delegated Authority.
the Report on Governance that follows.
As the The recent financial crisis has emphasised the need new Chairman, I will be personally responsible for to be vigilant and proactive in the management ensuring that we take the necessary steps to ensure of risk.
The proposed introduction of Solvency that our governance continues to adapt to the ever II in Europe, currently scheduled for 2013, will more demanding business landscape.
I also aim increase further the focus on riskadjusted metrics to ensure that the Board retains the right level of and have important implications for regulatory expertise and experience to lead the Group as our capital.
Risk management is therefore a key part new strategy is implemented.
144 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
