GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 223 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Governance Dear shareholder, The Remuneration Committee is acutely aware of the additional Remuneration is one of the most challenging issues currently facing responsibilities it carries as a consequence of the support RBS has RBS.
The Remuneration Committee has sought to reflect public received from the UK Government.
RBS fully intends to be a responsible sentiment on this issue and the Groups results, balanced with the need steward of this investment.
The Board believes that pay must be both to remain competitive and retain individuals that are central to the future appropriately restrained but commercial and fair.
Our plans take success of the Group.
We are especially conscious of the public account of the need for a careful balance to be struck reflecting hostility to some of the higher levels of banking pay and the special competitor positions, the UK bonus tax, the overall results of RBS and scrutiny in such cases as RBS which is reporting an overall loss.
We are the capital support the Group has received.
trying to react to this responsibly, but if the staff needed to restore the Groups fortunes feel they will be treated worse than at competitors, we The Remuneration Committee reviewed remuneration policies, will fail to retain or recruit and thereby fail in our turnaround goals for processes and practices across the Group to ensure that they support RBS.
Those responsible for the major failings have left.
Our remaining the strategic goals of RBS which are to serve institutions well, to return staff are performing well in profitable businesses or engaged in the to standalone strength, to return shareholder value, and to reflect best challenging task of turning around our more difficult legacy cases.
We have taken into account the recommendations on remuneration made by the G20, the FSA and the The principles I outlined to you in my letter last year connected the longWalker review and we are working towards implementation.
The term interests of shareholders and customers with the performance of Remuneration Committee very much hopes that the implementation of staff.
These principles were the beginning of a fundamental reform of these recommendations creates a level playing field for all banks remuneration within the Group.
During 2009, a thorough review of internationally.
We cannot set remuneration policy in isolation as to do so remuneration policies, processes and governance at RBS was would neither reflect the competitive environment nor enable us to undertaken.
We have committed to positioning the Group at the leading attract and retain employees of the calibre necessary to rebuild the edge of the financial services sector reform of remuneration and the Group and deliver long-term shareholder value.
changes we are making will help us reach this position.
The framework that the Remuneration Committee has established has strengthened During the year, the Remuneration Committees activities have focused on: both the performance management processes and the link between risk and reward.
The basis of the framework is: ensuring that the Groups remuneration policies, procedures and practices are effective and promote the highest possible standards a performance management process which ensures all employees of risk management: know what is expected of them and includes a rigorous review of their achievements: designing policies to ensure that remuneration is appropriately competitive in the markets, sectors and geographies in which RBS pay for performance all annual and longer term awards are subject operates, and is related to individual, business unit and to challenging and measurable performance criteria directly linked to Group performance: the Groups strategic plan: strengthening the link between remuneration and risk taken and deferral a significant proportion of annual awards are deferred and taking advice from the newly-formed Board Risk Committee: longer term awards are subject to a three year performance period: developing and implementing a rigorous approach to performance clawback awards can be subject to clawback and may be withheld management, using appropriate risk-adjusted performance if the results later turn out not to reflect sustained longer term measures and taking into account the full costs and capital allocated performance: and to individual businesses: use of shares for bonuses to align interests of employees with shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee appreciates that this has been another difficult year for our staff and their families as we restructure the business.
The reality is that it is the hard work of our staff over many years that has resulted in a core set of resilient and valuable businesses that will drive our recovery.
The performance of the core business remains strong due to the incredible focus our employees have maintained on our customers.
It is for that reason we continue to create an environment in which our staff can meet their ambitions as we work with them to restore and then transform the Group into one of the worlds most admired, valued and stable banks.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009 223 GRA 4 Governance 09 207-238. qxp:GRA 4 Governance 09 15 3 10 09:29 Page 224 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued reviewing the remuneration of employees who have a material impact During the year the terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee on Group performance.
This includes new processes for reviewing were broadened to include oversight of remuneration policies for all remuneration for newly recruited senior individuals, who are critical to employees across the Group.
To reflect its work, the report of the the long-term success of RBS: and Remuneration Committee contains not only information on executive remuneration, but also a statement of the remuneration policies which reviewing and providing a strategic overview of all bonus and longwill apply across the whole of the Group.
term incentive plans operating in RBS to ensure their compliance with shareholder interests, best industry practice and the The remuneration environment is evolving and while I acknowledge requirements of the FSAs Code of Practice on Remuneration.
there is still more work to be done, we have already made significant changes and continue to be one of the leaders in the sector in the The outcome of the Remuneration Committees review has included: reform of our remuneration policies.
The Remuneration Committee has made significant progress in overseeing the development of policies, a clear governance framework for incentive plans across the Group, processes and practices that will ensure that employee remuneration at involving the Risk and HR functions at all key decision points: RBS is properly controlled and fully aligns sustainable performance with the long term interests of shareholders and customers.
a structure of deferment for incentives for up to three years, with the ability to claw back any that are shown to have been based on misstated or misleading results: Colin A. M. Buchan agreement with the Groups major shareholder, UKFI, on the overall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee level of bonuses in respect of 2009 performance and the 24 February 2010 arrangements for their deferment in stages to 2012: and a new long term incentive plan which is being submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting following a comprehensive consultation with major institutional shareholders.
This plan includes a new approach to performance measures to ensure that awards vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the performance achieved is in line with the Boards risk policies and that a balanced performance has been achieved across a number of risk adjusted metrics.
224 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
