1849 Black Sun ImpTob p34 p35:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:15 Page 34 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: GOVERNANCE Chairmans Introduction HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SUPPORT OUR STRATEGY Iain Napier Chairman The current difficulties facing the global economy have brought considerable focus on governance and companies remuneration policies.
We are confident that our long established and embedded Corporate Governance practices, internal controls and remuneration policy, which in principle comply with the recommendations in the Walker Review, support our strategy of creating sustainable shareholder value and ensure that we We recognise it is critical to remain in a position to deliver this strategy.
constantly review and manage our Our Corporate Structure Explained During the year we made considerable progress with the governance processes to ensure integration of Altadis into our corporate structure.
Following this integration we have two main business activities: tobacco and our long-term sustainability.
Our tobacco segment comprises the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco-related products.
Our logistics segment comprises the distribution of tobacco products for major tobacco manufacturers, including Imperial Tobacco, as well as a wide range of non-tobacco products and services.
ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2009: Both business segments are managed within our Corporate Governance framework and are subject to our policies and Appointment of Chief Operating Officer control procedures.
However, we run our logistics segment on an Considerable Progress with Integration operationally neutral basis in order to ensure that all its customers are treated equally.
Refining Corporate Strategy How We Actively Manage Our Business Development of the Risk Co-ordination Committee Our Executive Directors have a wealth of experience in the tobacco industry, complemented and supplemented by the wide range of Significant Refinancing business and financial experience of our Non-Executive Directors.
Compliance with the Continuing Implementation They are collectively responsible to our stakeholders for ensuring of the Companies Act 2006 the Group is managed within its governance framework, setting our corporate strategy and providing an environment in which the corporate strategy can be delivered.
PRIORITIES FOR 2010: Our corporate strategy is supported by our remuneration policy Management Succession which focuses on performance related reward, with long-term targets designed to incentivise the creation of sustainable Further Progress on Integration shareholder value.
Performance against our corporate strategy Ongoing Enhancement of our Risk Management is further incentivised by our annual bonus and other performance targets which support our key performance indicators page 14 Processes led by the Risk Co-ordination Committee and the management of the key strategic risks of the business.
Enhancement of our Anti-illicit Trade Activities Managing Risk The Group faces a number of risks, similar to those faced by Further Embedding and Enhancing Internal Controls many multinational companies, which may impact on our financial position or prevent us from achieving our corporate strategy.
Successful management of these risks is fundamental to our sustainable profitability and future growth.
34 34 IMPERIAL IMPERIAL TOBACCO TOBACCO GROUP GROUP PLC PLC 2009 2009 1849 Black Sun ImpTob p34 p35:Layout 1 30 11 09 21:15 Page 35 Key Priorities for 2010 Our business and the risks we face are constantly changing.
In addition to our ongoing management succession planning, We, therefore, regularly review our policies and risk management our priorities for 2010 include further consolidation of the Altadis procedures to ensure they are up-to-date and continue to protect business and the continued embedding and enhancement our stakeholders.
of our processes and internal controls in the wider Group, It is impossible to eliminate every risk.
However, through our including in relation to Occupational Health, Safety and Risk Co-ordination Committee we analyse risks by reference to Environmental processes.
the likelihood of them occurring and their potential impact.
This We will also focus on further enhancement of our risk top down process supports our long established risk management management and anti-illicit trade processes.
controls embedded across the business.
Further information relating to the management of risk during the year is set out Our governance processes support and underpin our strategy on pages 45 to 48. and its underlying objectives of sales growth, cost optimisation and cash utilisation, and we will continue to drive these during We also encourage staff to raise concerns they may have including the year.
We will also continue to support reasonable regulation anything they believe to be wrong or dangerous.
Our Public Interest of tobacco products but will challenge regulation that undermines Disclosure Policy allows employees to do this safe in the knowledge the principles of adult choice and the freedom of competition.
that they will not suffer any detriment as a consequence.
Succession Planning We regularly review the composition of the Board and the Chief Executives Committee to ensure a continuous provision of the most effective leadership for the Groups development and sustainability.
Iain Napier Our annual talent review process is designed to identify the most Chairman capable successors for critical roles at all levels in our business.
It is a bottom up process initiated by our major market management teams and rolled up through our regions and business units.
This culminates in a final talent review meeting conducted by the Chief Executives Committee, the outputs of which are presented to the Board for review and challenge.
This is a practice that is embedded across the Group and seeks to ensure a continuous talent pipeline.
Key Achievements in 2009 As a further step in ensuring our Board structure is aligned with the ongoing international development of our enlarged business, Mrs A J Cooper was appointed to the position of Chief Operating Officer in March 2009.
We made considerable progress with the integration of Altadis, including rolling out our internal controls and Group policies and procedures.
In addition, we refined our corporate strategy to ensure we capitalise on the opportunities offered by the enlarged business.
To ensure that maturing financing facilities were effectively managed we successfully raised 3.9 billion through the capital markets and have no refinancing requirements until July 2012.
IMPERIAL IMPERIAL TOBACCO TOBACCO GROUP GROUP PLC PLC 2009 2009 35 35
