12 Report of the Directors Directors report The Groups total assets at December 31, 2011 were 380.2 million, During the year the Group acquired a 1% gross revenue royalty on compared to 415.6 million at December 31, 2010.
This does not include London Mining PLCs Isua iron ore project in Greenland in exchange for any increase in value over cost that may be attributable to the Groups a non-interest bearing advance of US$30 million.
London Mining PLC, royalty intangibles or the Panorama and Trefi coal projects.
If royalty which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, has commenced work intangibles were included at valuation this would enhance assets by on a feasibility study for the Isua project with production targeted a further 52.2 million 2010: 12.1 million.
The royalty agreement contains a number of milestones, including the completion of a bankable feasibility study by December Operational review 31, 2012 and obtaining an exploitation licence by December 31, 2013.
Coking coal royalties In the event of these not being met, the Group retains the right to be In Australia, coking coal royalty receipts from the Kestrel and Crinum repaid in cash or, at London Minings discretion, in shares at the market mines, operated by Rio Tinto Limited and BHP Billiton Limited price at the time.
Further information on the project and the latest respectively, were 32.4 million 2010: 29.9 million.
Lower export iron ore resource estimate can be found at www.
levels of coking coal from Australia in the first half of 2011, largely due On February 6, 2012 the Group announced a proposed transaction to adverse weather in Queensland, and record global steel production to acquire 50% of the 1.5% gross revenue royalty on the Mount Ida supported coking coal prices over the first half of the year with spot magnetite iron ore project from Red Rock Resources PLC, a London prices above US$300 per tonne.
Prices fell toward the end of the Stock Exchange listed company.
The acquisition will total US$14 year with a downturn in steel market sentiment brought about by million paid in three instalments: i US$6 million on completion the protracted Eurozone crisis.
Global steel production also retreated and agreement of terms of the transaction for a 0.3% gross revenue in the second half of 2011 which coincided with the recovery of royalty: ii US$4 million for a further 0.225% gross revenue royalty Australian coking coal supply.
Coal sales by Kestrel were 3.8 million following a positive definitive feasibility study DFS, a decision to tonnes in 2011 2010: 4.4 million tonnes.
Throughout the year the mine and 20% of the pre-production capital costs outlined in the sales price range of hard coking coal was US$328 to US$235 DFS being provided for: and iii US$4 million for a further 0.225% per tonne.
gross revenue royalty, taking the total to 0.75% on commencement The coal royalties from the Kestrel and Crinum mines are paid on of commercial production.
The Mount Ida magnetite iron ore project coal mined under private subterranean rights with a royalty rate is being developed by Jupiter Mines Limited Jupiter, an Australian prescribed by the Queensland Mineral Resources Act Regulations.
The project has a JORC compliant These regulations provide that a royalty rate of 7% applies to the value Inferred iron ore resource announced by Jupiter on January 19, 2011 of coal sold below A$100 per tonne and a rate of 10% applies to the and a scoping study was completed in March 2011 outlining the value of coal sold above A$100 per tonne.
The Group owns 50% of the production of high quality magnetite concentrate, to be transported private subterranean rights and therefore receives 50% of the royalties along the existing railway from Menzies to Port Esperance on Western paid on coal sold.
A feasibility study is underway for completion by the end of 2012.
Additional information on the project and the The independent valuation of these interests at December 31, 2011 latest iron ore resource estimate can be found at was 175.1 million A$265.9 million compared to 177.1 million www.
The valuation is based on the net present value of the pre-tax cash flows discounted at a rate of 7% In Australia the Group holds a 1.5% gross revenue royalty covering and the net royalty income is taxed in Australia at a rate of 30%.
three exploration licences in the central Pilbara region of Western Australia.
The tenements, covering approximately 263 square Iron ore royalties kilometres, are owned by a wholly owned subsidiary of BHP Billiton In Brazil, royalty receipts from the Amap Iron Ore System Amap Limited and host a number of known iron occurrences, the most operated by Anglo American PLC were 2.7 million 2010: 0.2 significant being the Railway deposit.
The tenements are supported million.
The Group holds a 1% gross revenue royalty covering iron by extensive rail infrastructure including the rail lines from Rio Tinto ore within the Amap licences in the Amap region of northern Limiteds West Angelas and Yandicoogina mines and BHP Billiton Brazil.
Amap is 70% owned by Anglo American PLC and 30% by Limiteds rail line serving its current operations at Mining Area C, which Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. Cliffs, a large US based NYSE listed lies immediately to the east of the Railway deposit.
Anglo American PLCs public disclosures show Amap Corporation NL UMC explored the tenements during the period produced 5.08 million tonnes of pellet and sinter feed in 2011 2007 to 2010.
The last update of resources was by UMC on September including increased production of the higher value pellet feed.
For 21, 2009, when it announced a JORC compliant Indicated iron ore further information on the operation and for the latest iron ore reserve resource.
UMC was acquired by BHP Billiton Limited in February 2010. and resource estimates please see www.
Further information may be found at www.
Also, in Brazil, the Group holds a 1% gross revenue royalty on iron ore The Group owns a 2% net smelter return royalty interest in the and non-precious metals, other than copper, on Beadell Resources Jogjakarta iron sands and pig-iron project Jogjakarta, located in Limiteds Beadell mineral rights in the State of Amap excluding Indonesia and operated by Indo Mines Limited Indo an Australian any mineral rights comprising the Tartaruga Project as at October 11, Stock Exchange listed company.
On August 29, 2011 Indo announced 2010 including the Tucano Concession adjacent to Anglo American the results of a JORC compliant feasibility study: the details of which PLCs Amap operation.
The rights currently cover approximately can be found at www.
On September 8, 2011 the 2,500 square kilometers and as well as containing Beadells Tucano company announced that it had successfully produced pig-iron at gold project are prospective for iron ore. On August 29, 2011 Beadell the Outotec Trial Smelting facility and on February 1, 2012 that it had announced a maiden JORC compliant iron ore resource for the received the final environmental approval for Jogjakarta.
Tucano Concession the details of which can be found at www.
Beadell is currently stockpiling iron Uranium royalties ore from stripping operations related to its gold project and seeking a The Group owns a 1% net smelter return royalty interest in the strategic partner for the development of the iron ore resource.
Beadell Spanish uranium projects operated by Berkeley Resources Limited Resources Limited is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange.
Berkeley a company listed in Australia and London.
In its December Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors 13 Directors report 2011 Quarterly Activities Report, Berkeley reported that discussions are located in Quebec, Canada, and were until recently operated were continuing with ENUSA regarding the development of the State by Northern Star Mining Corp. On January 25, 2011 the company Reserves.
Berkeley also announced that its wholly owned Salamanca announced that it had been deemed to have filed assignments in I uranium project continues on schedule with first production bankruptcy.
The Group has registered its royalty interests against the anticipated in 2014.
For further information on the projects and relevant tenures and continues to pursue its rights with the receiver the latest uranium resource estimates please see to ensure that the royalty remains attached to the property in the www.
During the year ended December 31, 2010 a full provision of 4.2 million was made against the royalty instrument held The Group owns a 1% net smelter return royalty interest in the by the Group in Northern Star Mining Corp. developing Four Mile uranium project located in South Australia and operated by a joint venture between Quasar Resources Proprietary The Group also owns an option to acquire a 2% net smelter return Limited Quasar 75% and Alliance Resources Limited Alliance royalty on Creso Exploration Incs Duggan gold property in Ontario, 25%.
Approval for the mine was granted by the Australian Canada.
Exploration work at this property is ongoing.
government in July 2009: however, the joint venture parties are Chromite royalties currently in dispute over a number of matters and development During the year the Group acquired a 1% net smelter return royalty of the mine has been placed on hold until these are resolved.
On interest in the Black Thor, Black Label and Big Daddy chromite projects February 10, 2012, in what the Group sees as a positive development, via the purchase of 7207565 Canada Inc. from KWG Resources Inc. a Alliance announced that notices of discontinuance had been filed Toronto Stock Exchange listed company for US$18 million.
The deposits ending litigation surrounding the native title agreement for the Four in the Ring-of-Fire region of Northern Ontario, Canada are owned Mile uranium project.
Subsequently, Alliance announced on February and operated by Cliffs.
Cliffs is currently preparing a comprehensive 20, 2012 that Quasar and Alliance had received an offer of a 10 year Project Description as required under Canadian guidelines for economic, mineral lease over the Four Mile uranium project from the South environmental and social assessments.
Further details on the project can Australian Minister for Mineral Resources and Energy.
On January be found at www.
27, 2010 Alliance announced a JORC compliant Indicated uranium The Group holds a 3% gross revenue royalty over the output from resource and on July 28, 2010 Alliance reported the results of a scoping Empire Mining Corps Empire Bulqiza chromite project in Albania.
Alliance Resources Limited is an Australian Stock Exchange On November 7, 2011 Empire announced it was ceasing operations listed company and further details of the project and the latest in Albania due to material omissions in its renewed exploration uranium resource estimates can be found at licences.
Empire has been conducting high level talks with the Albanian www.
government in an effort to rectify the matter.
A clarification of Empires In addition, the Group holds the royalty rights on some mineral position is expected in the first half of 2012.
Empire Mining Corp is listed exploration licences in the Athabasca Basin region of Canada.
The on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Group has recognised an impairment charge of 1.1 million during the Nickel royalty option year, as a result of the inherent uncertainty of these licences entering The Group holds an option to acquire for US$12.5 million a 1.5% net commercial production.
The Group will continue to review the smelter return royalty on the Araguaia and Lontra Nickel Projects development of these licences on an annual basis.
Araguaia Project which are located in the Carajas Mineral Gold royalties District of Northern Brazil and are owned by Horizonte Minerals PLC The Group owns a 2.5% net smelter return royalty, escalating to 3% Horizonte, a London Stock Exchange listed company.
Horizonte for gold prices in excess of US$1,100 per ounce, on the El Valle-Boinas acquired the Araguaia Project from Teck Resources Limited in 2010, Carles EVBC gold copper mines located in Spain and operated which resulted in Teck Resources Limited controlling approximately by Orvana Minerals Corp Orvana, a Toronto Stock Exchange 44% of Horizontes outstanding share capital.
Commissioning of EVBC commenced June 1, 2011 Horizonte announced an updated NI 43-101 JORC compliant nickel with production to September 30, 2011 of 9,336 ounces of gold, laterite resource: work on a Preliminary Economic Assessment is 1.05 million pounds of copper and 28,456 ounces of silver Orvana underway for delivery mid-2012.
Further information can be found at Operational Update November 10, 2011.
During the year, the maiden www.
receipts relating to the net smelter return royalty were received.
Other royalty options These totalled 0.3 million and consisted of repayments under the The Group also owns options to acquire a 1% net smelter return debenture instrument.
On February 21, 2012 Orvana announced royalty on each of the Highbank Lake and Eastbank PGE exploration an updated gold and copper resource estimate and production properties in Ontario, Canada, owned by Northern Shield Resources projections for EVBC: further details can be found at www.
Inc. a Toronto Stock Exchange listed company.
The Group holds a 2.5% net smelter return royalty on the Engenho Coal properties gold mine in Brazil, operated by Mundo Minerals Limited Mundo, During the year the Group continued to assess prospective partners an Australian Stock Exchange listed company.
During the year, receipts for its Panorama and Discovery coal projects in the Groundhog relating to the net smelter return royalty on the Engenho gold mine Coalfield, northern British Columbia, Canada collectively referred to totalled 0.3 million 2010: 0.4 million.
These receipts consisted of as Panorama and its Trefi coal project in the Peace River Coalfield, repayments under the debenture instrument and also included 0.1 northwest British Columbia, Canada.
In November 2011, Mundo placed the Engenho gold mine on care and maintenance and on December 20, 2011, Mundos The Panorama coal project has a NI 43-101 JORC compliant Brazilian subsidiary was granted court approval for protection under Indicated resource of 13.7 million tonnes of semi-anthracite to Recuperao Judicial, the Brazilian equivalent of the US Chapter 11 anthracite coal and an Inferred resource of 24.1 million tonnes of semiprocess.
As at December 31, 2011 a full provision of 1.6 million was anthracite to anthracite coal.
made against the royalty instrument held by the Group in Mundo.
The Trefi project has a NI 43-101 JORC compliant Measured coal The Group owns a 2.5% escalating net smelter return royalty on resource of 14.25 million tonnes and an Indicated coal resource of 25.1 the Malartic-Midway and McKenzie Break projects.
The projects million tonnes and an Inferred coal resource of 51.6 million tonnes.
Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
