MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review Exceptional capability.
Since 1 April 2010, we have operated primarily in four divisions: Facilities, TechnicalFacilities, Property, and Asset Management.
Each division brings together a selection of services that naturallyttogether from both an operational and a client perspective.
As we grow, more of our contracts incorporate two, three or even all of our divisions.
We made significant progress during Specialist services to the police and Facilities Management theyear, particularly in our ability to bid justicemarkets is a growing area for us.
Revenue forand win large contracts that span There are opportunities in prisons, a range 7.0% many regions and draw on the services of police support services, and we have ofall of our divisions.
As our clients look already commenced work in our first 2010 824.6 tocreate value from all of their assets, immigration detention centre.
2011 882.2 wehave responded with a exible We are also developing our catering Operating profit modelthat usesour broad range of offering, with a brand refresh and the before other items 11.3% expertise in asset, energy and property appointment of a new managing management alongside any or all of 2010 50.5 directorand a sales director.
2011 56.2 Our recent investments in customer The savings that clients can achieve by Operating profit margin relationship management and our transitioning to a full FM service continue integrated offering are bearing fruit: 0.3pp to drive growth in our business.
Energy weachieved a 84.2% retention rate 2010 6.1 management is also an important forrebidcontracts during the year.
2011 6.4 differentiator for us and the development Wearealso the third biggest player in of CarbonCare has given us a marketOrder book bothcleaning and security in the UK leading offering.
andone of the top ten providers for 4.1bn We tailor all of our services to suit our allofour other FM services.
clients needs and this has seen us Looking ahead, our ability to save costs increasingly develop niche offerings Our Facilities Management FM business forboth new and existing clients, along forspecic sectors, such as retail, transport, is responsible for delivering soft FM with our focus on retaining clients and healthcare and, more recently, justice services.
The divisions offering ranges expanding into new markets, will support from fully integrated FM and consultancy, and prisons.
to any of our specialist single services We have made several enhancements which include: toour security business and now offer Security: Cleaning: Catering: Document atotal security management solution, management and reprographics: Reception which includes manned guarding, andfront of house: Waste management: Environmental services: Landscaping: response services, key holding and Pest control.
remotemonitoring via our newly-opened technology centre in Northern Ireland.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The shift towards integrated FM is also a Technical Facilities Management Property Management major driver for TFM.
Our technical FM Revenue Revenue expertise underpins our integrated FM 26.8% 2.7% offering, and is particularly important where clients businesses are focused 2010 344.8 2010 496.2 onhard services, for example in our 2011 437.1 2011 509.7 Vodafone and Rolls-Royce contracts, Operating profit Operating profit which are led by TFM, as is the Royal before other items before other items -14.7% 58.7% Opera House contract.
2010 15.5 2010 25.1 We have recently launched National 2011 21.4 2011 24.6 Mobile Services, which delivers fast andresponsive mobile technical FM Operating profit margin Operating profit margin services MobileTech across the UK, -0.9pp 1.1pp mostespecially to organisations with 32 2010 4.5 widely spread property portfolios.
2010 5.1 2011 5.6 2011 4.2 33 Ourmulti-skilled technicians provide services to clients within a local Order book Order book geographic area, helping to build strong 1.4bn 1.2bn local relationships.
We anticipate that MobileTech will be attractive to retail clients, where we are seeing an increasing Our Technical Facilities Management Our Property Management business number of contracts which require us TFM business focuses on hard services provides a full suite of integrated services, toact as a managing agent and take facilities management FM that is led by from total t-out and refurbishment to responsibility for their entire technical technology, engineering and the need ongoing repairs, including: FMbudgets.
Property maintenance: Building refurbishment: Services include: Painting: Roong: Interior t-out: Fire protection: As the number of cross-selling Plumbing: Mechanical andelectrical Integrated FM: mechanical and electrical opportunities increases, the maintenance engineering installation: Solarphotovoltaic engineering maintenance: Mobile multi-site FM: of data intensive sites is a market where panels: Insurance claims management Specialist technical services: CarbonCare energy we will be leveraging our Asset and repairs.
services: Lighting design and maintenance: Management installation capabilities.
Building Management Systems and controls: Compliance services.
Awell-maintained data environment We have recently made a series of iscritical for many clients.
Our role is to changes to our business, in order to offer Energy reduction is a key growth driver understand the drivers for individual our clients more integrated, end-to-end and an area where our CarbonCare clientsand the factors that make their solutions, and to operate in a more offering has successfully helped environment unique.
We work hard to efficient and exible way.
differentiate TFM in the marketplace.
understand and monitor the plant and The integration of our engineering In2010, BSRIA placed MITIE in the top two equipment in order to put effective risk contracting business into Property energy services companies in the UK.
As part of Asignicant number of CarbonCare Thisenables us to identify potential points thisprocess, we discontinued some services are provided by TFM.
It delivers of failure in advance and make sure we ofourengineering activities in certain atotal energy solution that increases have the appropriately trained engineers parts of the country.
awareness of environmental issues, who can deliver an immediate response introduces innovative ideas and to any issues that arise.
Local and Central Government technologies, manages energy and Departments, together with the Social We focus on people and training at every carbon footprint data, ensures legislative Housing market, are an important focus level.
A recent employee engagement carbon compliance and delivers for us.
The EPS Ltd acquisition has been survey achieved a 62% class leading guaranteed energy reductions.
We also fully integrated and has strengthened response rate, and concluded that our provide decentralised and cleaner usinthe South East.
We have launched people have an above average level renewable energy solutions, working in anew partnering model, Localcare, ofengagement.
conjunction with our Asset and Property whichuses shared ownership between Management businesses.
Current market trends, particularly in alocal authority or housing association, energy reduction and integrated FM, aprivate sector partner and the coupled with the investments we have employees who are delivering the made to supplement our capabilities services.
It enables the creation of inthese areas, mean that we are mutually owned local organisations well-positioned to support our clients whichdeliver cost-effective services in the fast-growing TFM arena.
Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review We have combined our interiors and At the Royal Free Hospital we successfully Asset Management mechanical and engineering installation completed a gas turbine energy centre Revenue businesses into one integrated t-out development and are now engaging 14.5% business.
Increased confidence in the withthe client to look at cooling upgrades.
UKretail sector has generated new We developed a sustainable biomass 2010 54.5 demand for store t-out and refurbishment energy centre for a Waitrose store in East 2011 62.4 and we are confident of gaining further Cowes, the first of its kind for the John Lewis Operating profit market share as capital spending returns.
Partnership, and we have also entered before other items In addition, our Residential Solutions 5.3% into a joint venture to develop a biomassoffering now combines our capabilities in fuelled energy centre for a large UK 2010 1.9 plumbing, heating, installation, carpentry manufacturer.
2.0 2011 and decoration to provide a complete In addition, we have established a Operating profit margin internal t-out solution to the new build reputation as a leader in the data centre housing market.
-0.3pp market, where our skills in understanding We completed a renewable energy 2010 3.5 and mitigating risk proles have brought 2011 3.2 pilotproject to install photovoltaic PV usan impressive portfolio of projects and roofmounted panels that use solar accounts.
We completed several major Order book cellstoconvert energy from the sun into data centre projects during the year, 0.1bn electricity.
The installations took place including one for a leading global onan initial pilot of 200 properties, which telecommunications company.
are owned by registered social landlords.
This series of agship developments Our Asset Management division The residents benefit from cheaper hasgiven us validation and visibility develops bespoke energy assets that electricity costs while the homeowner offer a secure and sustainable energy inthemarketplace and supported receives an income from feed-in tariffs supply.
Carbon efficient technologies thegrowth of a healthy forward sales forany excess energy generated.
areused to create energy infrastructure pipeline.
Wearenow able to show Weanticipate significant opportunities which provides the electricity, heating howorganisations with intensive energy inthis market, with potential for up to orcooling required by our clients.
needscan meet their own requirements, 15,000 further properties during 2011.
Decentralised energy delivers the longsecurely and efficiently, while supporting term benets of guaranteed cost savings, We are also working overseas for the first their communities through local networks.
reduced carbon emissions and supply time, in conjunction with TFM and FM, We are recognised as one of the few certainty.
Services include: to deliver space planning and project providers in the UK that has the track Decentralised energy centre development: work on the Rolls-Royce Property Estate record, scale and expertise to deliver Low-carbon datacentre development: throughout Europe.
substantial decentralised energy centres Renewable energy integration: Energy services company ESCo that will guarantee availability over a Our order book is significant and we are management: Community infrastructure.
Our business seeing signs of optimism in many of our willbe driven forward by this momentum markets.
Property Management is now We are seeing increased opportunities and by our continuing focus on key ina strong position to take advantage inthe decentralised energy market.
sectorswhere we have a strong ofthe various growth opportunities in Bothpublic and private sector clients competitive capability.
ourchosen sectors as markets improve.
recognise that this is an effective way to reduce energy costs and consumption, without an upfront capitalinvestment inmany cases.
The ability to achieve sustainability targets whilst retaining funding for core services is acompelling argument in the current economic climate, particularly for our public sectorclients.
The good progress made during the year is a result of the significant investments we have made to develop our capabilities.
We have been awarded several transformational contracts which, whencompleted, will provide us with world-class reference sites from which toroll-out similar models.
