Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review OF OPeRAtiOns MORGAn enGineeRed MAteRiAls divisiOn Business description the divisions strategy aligns with the Groups Revenue the businesses within engineered Materials strategic priorities and has fostered success m are global suppliers of highly engineered in the ballistic protection market, entry to solutions built from a portfolio of material the silicon solar cell market, and entry into 1.9% technologies that includes carbon, silicon the lithium ion anode market.
specifically, carbide, oxide-based ceramics and advanced the divisions strategy is to: polymeric composites.
the divisions footprint provides a global reach that enables the Add value to advanced materials and delivery of market-leading solutions to a technology to deliver engineered solutions variety of chosen end-markets.
these chosen to chosen markets.
end-markets are served through three global engender a culture of operational businesses: Morgan Advanced Materials & excellence with a focus on continually technology Morgan AM&t, nP Aerospace improving the value the division delivers and Molten Metal systems MMs.
reporting purposes the division consists of establish and fully embed a mindset two global reporting segments: Morgan AM&t for growth through focused business including nP Aerospace and Molten Metal development, specifically in high-growth systems MMs.
invest in our future through its technology Divisional EBITA the divisions capabilities are rooted in the centres of excellence and through m understanding, application and processing acquisitions, alliances and partnerships.
of its broad range of advanced materials.
Fully engage its entire workforce and the acquisition of a majority equity stake in instil a culture of continuous reinvention.
22.4% nP Aerospace in 2009 extended the divisions continuously seek and develop the materials and ballistic technologies to include right people.
lightweight ceramics composites, and the acquisition of changsha hairong new Materials the divisions three global businesses go to co. ltd. hairong in china at the end of 2010 market through an effective array of channels complemented on-going product development that include both direct sales and distributor to broaden the divisions presence in networks.
Morgan AM&t primarily uses direct renewable energy to now include anode sales channels complemented by strategic materials for lithium ion batteries.
today the distribution partners, who serve both the engineered Materials division has strong original equipment market and the aftermarket positions in carbon brushes for industrial and and are supported by a global network of rail traction applications, seals and bearings applications engineers.
nP Aerospace uses for fluid handling, crucibles for the processing direct channels to serve major militaries of non-ferrous metals, high-temperature and vehicle OeMs around the world, while insulation for silicon solar wafer production MMs leverages an effective global network and advanced lightweight protective ceramic of independent distributors to serve the global composite armour systems.
the division is strategically positioned to ensure that the As at 1 January 2012 the division employs best possible resource is deployed to provide some 4,000 people, serving customers in advanced materials and technologies in the around 100 countries worldwide.
its global form of engineered solutions to the following presence includes 40 operating facilities in key global markets: 25 countries, with major materials processing plants in the UsA, europe, south America and Asia feeding an integrated network of finishing plants.
the division benefits from a strategically located low-cost manufacturing base, with sites in Mexico, china, hungary and india that allow the division to serve customers across the globe.
26 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 2009 41.4 2009 421.5 2010 45.5 2010 408.0 2011 55.7 2011 415.8 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Transportation Industrial Energy Morgan AM&t plays a vital role in the worlds the Morgan AM&t Business has a strong Over the past few years the global energy aerospace industry as well as in the railroad position in the global market, providing sector has become an increasingly important and transit industry.
electric current transfer engineered solutions that add value and target market for the division.
the Businesss is critical in many transportation systems such improved reliability to a diversified customer technology and product portfolio includes as rail, trams, the underground and helicopters.
the Business utilises a proven advanced components which are critical to traditional As well as supplying carbon brushes, collectors materials portfolio combined with a customerpower generation companies, the nuclear and rotary current transfer products, focused global footprint to supply carbon industry and the renewables sector.
in solar Morgan AM&t has developed an innovative brushes, linear collectors and rotary current power, Morgan AM&t is a world-leader in carbon material which transfers current transfer products to a diverse OeM and advanced high-temperature solutions providing between stationary wires and moving parts end-user base operating within steel, mining major producers of polysilicon and silicon in the low-humidity environments found and a variety of other key industrial markets.
ingots with the means to enhance solar cell at high-altitude and in space.
in wind power generation, the motors for fixed and rotary wing aircraft, with more than 150 years experience, Business supplies carbon brushes and rotary it provides high-performance with increased the MMs Business is the recognised leader transfer systems which perform in the harshest life, reducing maintenance and operating costs.
worldwide in the supply of crucibles to environments around the globe.
with the non-ferrous metals industries.
MMs crucibles acquisition of changsha hairong new Materials Security & Defence and foundry products provide melting solutions co. ltd. hairong Morgan AM&t added a Already a major tier 2 supplier of ceramic to foundries, die-casters and metal melting recognised technical leader in the production body armour plates to the Us department facilities covering melting applications that include of graphite materials for anodes used in lithium of defense, Morgan crucibles acquisition zinc, precious metals, aluminium, copper, ion batteries for portable electronic devices of a majority equity stake in nP Aerospace brass, bronze and other non-ferrous metals.
in 2009 broadened the companys materials portfolio and competency in ballistics, Petrochemical Electronics positioning Morgan crucible as a global leader Morgan engineered Materials uses its wide Morgan AM&t products are at the heart of in lightweight armour systems.
Founded range of carbon and silicon carbide materials many electronic innovations, and are used in in 1926, nP Aerospace is headquartered to manufacture critical seals and bearings for semiconductor manufacturing processes such in coventry, UK and has offices in Kingston, pumps and compressors used in fluid handling as ion implantation, epitaxy and compound Ontario, canada.
in 2010, nP Aerospace applications in the petrochemical, oil and gas crystal growth.
with the drive to faster, opened a new location in sterling heights, industries.
with a broad product offering smaller and lower cost devices, semiconductor Michigan, UsA.
with a clear focus on delivery and worldwide manufacturing and customer processing equipment companies are to the front-line soldier and leading-edge support, it is recognised as the leading global dependent on advanced materials being technical innovation at the core of its business, provider of seal faces, bearings, rotors and able to work at higher temperatures and nP Aerospace has an unparalleled record vanes in this market.
having higher purity levels to achieve the in the rapid fielding of new survivability required performance.
the Business also systems and equipment in support of defence supplies products used in the manufacture programmes around the globe.
the business of components such as optical fibres and laser remains a critical resource to the UKs Ministry diodes, and is securing a growing presence of defence for major integration contracts for in the high-growth market for leds.
Growing the fielding of next-generation tactical wheeled significantly in 2011, the market has come vehicles and the highly advanced systems have to value the Businesss engineered solutions, seen service in both iraq and Afghanistan.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 27 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review OF OPeRAtiOns continued MORGAn enGineeRed MAteRiAls divisiOn continued Research and development the improvement in the Morgan AM&t the division continues to invest heavily in the the Businesses within the engineered Materials results reflects sustained recovery from development of ballistic solutions to counter division are leaders in carbon-based materials, its core markets, continued expansion in ever-increasing threats and to meet demand oxide and non-oxide ceramics, lightweight dynamic growth markets and the successful for lighter weight solutions.
As expected, composites, and in ballistics and blast introduction of new products, particularly the nP Aerospace is trading below 2010 levels due technology.
hairong has added the sciences high-temperature product range.
A continued to reduced Urgent Operational Requirement of electro-chemistry and rechargeable batteries focus on improving cost efficiencies through demand for tactical wheeled vehicles by to the divisions expanding technology the Operational excellence Programme also the UK Ministry of defence.
the divisions research activities realised further significant benefits in 2011. continues to pursue a number of additional include material and process capabilities as domestic and international opportunities well as product and systems development.
MMs revenue grew across all regions with a with existing and new customers, leveraging its these activities are located within the major particularly strong performance in china and strong portfolio of advanced materials, ballistic material processing facilities in the UsA, india.
the Business has continued to improve expertise, and long history of delivering the UK and china.
the divisions businesses profitability through to high-teen margins advanced armour solutions to the UKs Ministry deploy application development engineers by driving through cost improvements and of defence.
Following the opening of a worldwide to work with customers in applying focusing on high-growth markets.
dedicated nP Aerospace office in detroit the advanced materials and technologies to develop business has developed working relationships leading-edge engineered solutions according Business developments with major OeMs on current and future to customer need, with a focus to position each the Morgan AM&t Business saw strong projects, resulting in an order in late 2011 Business as leaders in dynamic growth markets.
demand throughout the year with nearly with a well-established UsA vehicle OeM, all sectors and regions performing above to be delivered in 2012. Business performance pre-recession levels.
Revenue from Revenue in the engineered Materials division high-temperature products more than MMs continued to see strong growth across was 415.8 million 2010: 408.0 million, doubled.
the china and Asia regions continued all regions, in particular from china, india and representing an increase at reported rates strong growth in the wind market for electrical the Far east.
the Business maintained and of 1.9%.
At constant currency this increase and rotary products, while continuing to improved its margins, with the chinese and in revenue was 2.8%.
the revenue for advance penetration into the solar market india low-cost manufacturing bases enhancing Morgan AM&t excluding nP Aerospace for high-temperature products.
was 276.1 million 2010: 246.8 million representing an increase of 11.9% at reported the Business increased its efforts to rebalance rates and 13.1% on a constant currency basis.
resources and focus to growth sectors such as nP Aerospace revenue was 93.0 million renewable energy, while continuing to expand 2010: 120.9 million, in line with the capacity in low-cost countries.
MMs achieved revenue of 46.7 million 2010: 40.3 million, Morgan AM&ts focus on pursuing representing growth of 15.9% 17.6% opportunities in renewable energy on a constant currency basis.
extends to the lithium ion anode market.
divisional eBitA for the engineered during the year the recently acquired chinese Materials division was 55.7 million lithium ion battery material supplier, Morgan 2010: 45.5 million, a margin of 13.4% AM&t hairong, was successfully integrated into 2010: 11.2%.
Morgan AM&t eBitA margin the division and has made significant progress was 13.0% 2010: 10.7%, and MMs divisional in advancing relationships with a number of eBitA margin was 16.5% 2010: 15.7%.
lithium ion battery manufacturers for portable electronic devices and electric vehicles.
28 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Outlook entering 2012 Morgan AM&ts order book is at a healthy level and the outlook remains positive for continued growth in Asia and sustained performance in core markets in europe and the Americas.
demand for led high-temperature products is expected to remain strong while demand from the solar sector has softened.
improvements to the cost base and to global operational capability, along with increased focus and resource on higher growth markets, mean that the Business is well-positioned to take advantage of opportunities throughout the global economy.
nP Aerospace revenue is expected to continue to decline in 2012 as demand for tactical wheeled vehicles by the UK Ministry of defence ramps down.
however, there are new opportunities being actively pursued to commercialise nP Aerospaces technologies overseas, particularly in the north American market.
the outlook for MMs remains positive with continued sales growth in all regions, focused commitment to Operational excellence and strengthening positions in china, india and Brazil.
MMs continues to be well-placed to take advantage of its market-leading position in dynamic-growth economies.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 29 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review OF OPeRAtiOns continued MORGAn ceRAMics divisiOn Business description the technical ceramics Business is a leading Revenue Morgan ceramics comprises two operating supplier of bespoke,  m Businesses.
technical ceramics is a leader in industrial products manufactured from customer-specific components and assemblies materials including structural ceramics, 12.5% manufactured from advanced materials, while electro-ceramics and precious metals.
thermal ceramics is a world-leader in thermal Key markets for these products include management solutions for high-temperature electronics, aerospace, industrial equipment, applications in industrial markets.
As at 1 January 2012 Morgan ceramics technical ceramics components and employs some 5,900 people worldwide.
assemblies are used in hundreds of the division is a truly global business, high-technology application niches, including: with 57 manufacturing sites across six continents.
it is structured with regional teams ceramic cores used in the casting of supported by global engineering, marketing, turbine blades for aero-engine and technology, research and development, industrial gas turbines.
the divisions Braze alloys, ceramics and sub-assemblies major sites are located in Argentina, Australia, used in the manufacture, monitoring and Brazil, china, France, Germany, india, italy, control of aero engines.
Divisional EBITA Japan, Korea, Mexico, Russia, the UK and the components and sub-assemblies for m UsA.
the division has 50 sales offices working a broad range of medical applications, directly with end-users and also sells some including implantable devices, prosthetics, products through distribution networks.
34.7% ceramics and assemblies for electron the divisions engineering and design tubes used in a range of medical, security, capabilities are the key to its success.
industrial and research applications such Full technical support and advice is offered as airport security scanners, tv and radio to customers throughout their product broadcasting and x-ray equipment.
development cycle, working closely with engineered ceramics for fluid handling them to understand their needs and provide equipment.
engineered solutions that add value and Piezoelectric ceramic actuators for help differentiate their end-products.
components and assemblies for lasers the Morgan ceramics business strategy used in product marking, medical and is aligned with that of the Group, with the industrial applications.
objective of being a world-leader in engineered solutions based on advanced ceramic and the thermal ceramics Business is a worldrelated materials.
the divisions strategy is: leader in heat management solutions, serving a broad spectrum of industrial markets with to focus on market niches where the insulation requirements ranging from 500c to divisions distinctive competences and 1,600c.
its high-temperature insulating fibre, innovation skills differentiate it.
insulating bricks and monolithics enable users to structure the divisions businesses for to optimise thermal efficiency, reduce energy simplicity and high levels of accountability.
costs and improve environmental performance to drive operational excellence in all of through reduced cO emissions.
the Business 2 the divisions facilities.
also provides passive fire protection for the to actively manage the divisions portfolio industrial and construction sectors.
to achieve optimum shareholder returns.
to develop the divisions leaders, teams Products are manufactured from advanced and technical talent to deliver its strategy.
insulating materials marketed under a number of leading brands, including superwool, JM, Pyro-Bloc, FireMaster and tri-Mor.
they are used worldwide in demanding applications, which are increasingly influenced by legislative and environmental requirements.
Major markets include petrochemical, iron and steel and industrial equipment.
30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 2009 51.8 2009 521.1 2010 68.8 2010 609.1 2011 92.7 2011 685.2 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Market sectors Transportation examples include piezoceramic actuators Industrial Morgan ceramics makes ceramic and brazed for high-capacity hard drive disk hdd data Morgan ceramics makes high-performance alloy parts that help its customers improve storage which enable the head to be positioned ceramic materials that are resistant to chemical the efficiency and reliability of their products.
with extraordinary accuracy and vibration and physical wear, corrosion and extreme heat.
the ceramic materials offer a combination control, and wire-wound ceramic RF inductors they are ideal for equipment destined for of mechanical, electrical, thermal and chemical for mobile phones, laptops, hd-tvs, lighting harsh processing environments.
properties that makes them an attractive, controls, sensors and wireless devices.
the cost-effective option for designers of division is a major supplier of components the division is developing new ceramic transportation systems including road, rail and for electron tubes used in communications, membranes for efficient industrial water aircraft, whilst the thermal management signalling and control equipment.
filtration and purification, helping businesses products are widely used for fire protection.
to reduce maintenance and save energy.
its high-purity alumina ceramic is used in the aerospace industry the division extensively for waveguides in cO lasers and 2 it makes a range of high-temperature supplies specialist braze alloy parts for use insulators in excimer lasers, creating robust components that are used in heating pumps, in aero-engine build and repair and ceramic assemblies that resist the combination of thermocouples and other specialist thermal components for engine monitoring and control, voltages, temperatures and harsh environments.
processing equipment for applications from instrumentation and guidance systems.
ceramic industrial annealing to the manufacture of cores and insulation materials are used in the Petrochemical medical devices.
Morgan ceramics supplies a wide range of products for projects in the global its ceramic rollers are deployed in kilns used in the automotive sector it supplies ceramic petrochemical market.
the division makes to manufacture metals, glass, ceramic-ware components for a new hybrid vehicle and components used in machinery and equipment and fuel cells and its nilcra MgPsZ magnesia piezoceramic materials that are used widely in for hydrocarbon processing.
it also supplies partially stabilised zirconia is widely used in fuel level sensors, parking aids, alarm sensors, entire heat management solutions for fired severe-service valves and pumps.
wheel balancing, engine knock sensors and heaters, sulphur recovery units, fluid catalytic ignition systems.
Alumina and zirconia are ideal cracking units and boilers.
FireMaster insulating products from Morgan ceramics as materials for injector units, pump bearing fire protection systems are comprehensively help manufacturers control a variety of and valve plates.
certified and extensively tested to meet thermal processing operations, thereby national and international standards, offering optimising throughput and yields.
the division Electronics proven fire protection performance.
the supplies monolithic linings for blast furnaces Morgan ceramics makes piezoceramic division works with fire protection specialists and fibre modules and firebricks for heat components that are versatile, durable, and in the sector and supplies the market through treatment furnaces.
its fire protection stable, with excellent thermal and electrical both direct sales and distributors.
products are used in all types of building properties.
its broad range of dielectric and infrastructure projects.
materials offers high-quality capacitance for applications from laser instrumentation its piezoelectric materials are used in to microwave and high-voltage systems.
high-power ultrasonic systems and it also designs and manufactures sensors and transducers.
the division engineers many different ceramic components and ceramic-metal sub-assemblies to high specifications to meet demanding precision, reliability and cost requirements of semiconductor fabricators and manufacturers of consumer electronics.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 31 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Review OF OPeRAtiOns continued MORGAn ceRAMics divisiOn continued A range of parts and sub-assemblies are Healthcare it makes lightweight, heavy-duty fire protection manufactured for use in equipment for Morgan ceramics materials are used in systems for naval vessels, working to far higher the petrochemical sector, including specialist precision tools including dental descalers specifications than is required for commercial valves, pumps, seals and bearings.
the and specialist ultrasonic surgery scalpels.
its FireMaster system is certified high-performance ceramic materials provide a its ceramic capacitors and reflectors can to meet most national and international level of precision and reliability equally suited to be found in lasers for eye surgery.
the harsh environments of drilling and refining.
critical components used in implantable devices such as pacemakers, cochlear implants, it manufactures lightweight pre-stressed Morgan ceramics recently launched a range defibrillators and implants for neuro-stimulation.
piezoceramic tubes that provide high-acoustic of very hardwearing components made of output for the most demanding military deranox 975 alumina designed for use in in a recent breakthrough in cancer treatment, sonar systems and is a major supplier to hydrocyclones where sand and other solids are an efficient and minimally invasive new manufacturers of power tubes for use in separated from the liquid hydrocarbon stream.
procedure to ablate tumours has been made image intensifiers, electronic counter-measure it is a very harsh environment for mechanical possible because of a very small, precision equipment and communications.
equipment and the reliability of the specialist ceramic tip engineered for the treatment materials helps to protect sensitive needle by Morgan ceramics.
Additionally, the unique properties of its metallised alumina instrumentation such as export pumps for throat cancer patients, a new long-lasting ceramics have enabled the manufacture of and heat exchangers downstream.
speech valve has been developed using zirconia significantly smaller, higher resolution x-ray ceramic components.
tubes for luggage and cargo scanners, and its Energy diamonex diamond-like carbon coatings Morgan ceramics makes high-performance the division recently launched a tube contact are used in fingerprint swipe sensors.
insulating products that enable users to reduce sensor for accurate detection of occlusions energy costs and improve environmental in medical infusion lines.
the sensor gives Research and development performance.
the divisions ceramic live line non-invasive detection of pressure changes, Research and development capabilities are led indicators are used in high-voltage dc power providing instrument manufacturers with a by two technical directors with a network of distribution applications all over the world.
simple and reliable method of recognising materials scientists and applications and process the divisions high-temperature insulating when the tube is blocked.
engineers across the divisions global sites.
fibre, bricks and monolithics are used to they work with customers to engineer optimise thermal efficiency in industrial the division also makes key components solutions that address their needs.
the division applications from 500c to 1,600c.
for instrumentation and diagnostic equipment also undertakes research in collaboration such as ultrasonic imaging, x-ray, cAt and with leading universities in europe and latest-generation low bio-persistent MRi scanners.
the superior piezoelectric north America.
superwool Plus fibre is used in duct and ceramic components are used extensively in chimney insulation, process heater linings, medical ultrasound to enable increased image Recent developments have focused on pipe wrap and automotive exhaust heat resolution, while its multilayer chip capacitors products for the medical, transportation shields where its exceptionally low thermal are used in MRi systems to tune the magnetic and energy markets.
Product innovation conductivity allows engineers to specify field accurately.
is driven by the customers end-application: a significantly thinner blanket to achieve the divisions newest products are being the same level of insulation.
Piezoelectric components are popular in used in hybrid vehicles, water filtration and applications such as blood flow measurement the nuclear industry.
the division makes products used in the and foetal heart monitors for their reliability manufacture of thin-film photovoltaic cells for and accurate detection.
Additionally, they the majority of the divisions research and the solar industry and it manufactures cores can be found in ultrasonic air-in-line sensors development into thermal management used in the production of blades for industrial in medical devices and infusion pumps.
solutions is carried out at the divisions gas turbines.
Bromborough, UK site in a purpose-built Security & Defence world-class facility.
with 25 dedicated A new ultrasonic sensor launched this year Morgan ceramics superior materials scientists, the team has led the market in helps reduce energy usage by providing precise technology and impressive manufacturing the development of low bio-persistent fibres, and reliable measurement of heat and water capability deliver real performance benefits low-energy furnace operation and product flow even in harsh environments.
in the field for applications from military development.
the role of low bio-persistent hardware to surveillance equipment and fibres is seen as being of increasing importance armour for personnel and vehicle protection.
in the future of the high-temperature insulation market and so research and development activities have been directed towards extending the divisions product range in this area.
32 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements A major focus for the division is on recruitment the merger of the former technical and Outlook of high-calibre material scientists and engineers thermal ceramics divisions was completed to Overall, market demand strengthened in 2011, to provide the talent and resources that the time and the expected benefits were delivered, as shown by the divisions order books and division requires to fuel the growth from these helping to improve profit and Operating improved new business pipeline.
the north exciting expanding markets.
the new division now has greater American business traded strongly throughout resources to establish a significant technical the year, as did Asia.
europe showed positive Business performance ceramics business in Asia and south America.
signs of improvement in most markets, with Revenue in the Morgan ceramics division these were strengthened by the addition of the possible exception of construction, which was 685.2 million 2010: 609.1 million, management and sales personnel who will be remains weak.
this principally affects sales of tM representing an increase at reported rates able to define and develop the opportunities haldenwanger products, manufactured in of 12.5%.
At constant currency the increase that exist in these regions.
Germany, for industrial applications involving in revenue was 13.7%.
the south American during the year, the technical ceramics business is looking particularly strong, driven by Revenue for the technical ceramics Business in Business continued to make progress towards the significant investments that are being seen 2011 was 285.1 million 2010: 250.1 million, its declared target of positive mix shift, in the petrochemical sector.
despite these an increase of 14.0% at reported rates.
increasing the number of new business encouraging signals the division continues to Revenue was up by 16.1% on a like-for-like projects in higher margin, higher value-added watch recessionary indicators and for any signs constant currency basis with all regions showing end-markets such as medical and aerospace, of inflation.
thermal ceramics revenue whilst continuing to reduce exposure to more increased by 11.1% to 400.1 million in 2011 commoditised and economically cyclical weakness in the industrial gas turbine sector 2010: 359.0 million.
On a constant currency product areas.
continuous operational and medical device markets continued in 2011 basis, the year-on-year increase was 12.2%.
improvement programmes, cost reduction but these are being offset by improvements initiatives and emphasis on positive price in demand from sectors within the electronics divisional eBitA for the Morgan ceramics pass-through are all helping to support market.
the production ramp-up to meet division was 92.7 million 2010: 68.8 margin growth.
demand for the next generation of hdd million, a margin of 13.5% 2010: 11.3%.
towards the end For technical ceramics, divisional eBitA was the thermal ceramics Business continued of the year some weakness was noted for 43.1 million 2010: 34.0 million, reflecting its growth from the low of 2009, with the products supplied to the solar market.
a year-on-year increase of 26.8 % at reported majority of end-markets returning to rates.
technical ceramics raised its divisional pre-recessionary levels.
this growth was the medium-term outlook for the thermal eBitA margin by 1.5 percentage points, most notable in north America.
it has also ceramics Business remains encouraging, reaching 15.1% for the year 2010: 13.6%.
been a period of continued cost control driven by the growth in global population thermal ceramics divisional eBitA also and consolidation in the face of challenging and the continuing industrialisation of dynamic increased in the year to 49.6 million 2010: global economic conditions.
these factors, combined 34.8 million, an increase of 42.5% at the division completed the process of with the need to reduce energy expenditure reported rates.
the divisional eBitA margin reducing costs in mainland europe, principally and the increasingly stringent environmental also showed good improvement to 12.4% by reducing overheads.
legislation that favours low bio-persistent fibres 2010: 9.7%.
such as superwool, will continue to drive new product development in the thermal demand for heat management solutions.
Business developments ceramics Business remains concentrated in Methodology transferred from the technical in 2011 major investments and decisions the field of low bio-persistent fibre with the ceramics Business is encouraging further tM concentrated on opportunities to develop continued roll-out of superwool Plus and differentiation of the divisions fibre products tM the divisions footprint in the dynamic Asian the higher temperature superwool ht.
and will allow it to leverage the strength of and south American markets.
capital was these products offer significantly improved its worldwide management team.
this will invested in Moti Bhoyan, india, for a line to insulation performance and position the be helped by a new management focus being produce high-performance thin-fibre-based Business as the global technology leader in the applied to the global business streams Fibre, laminates for thermal insulation.
the division production of low bio-persistence products.
insulating Fire Bricks and engineering projects.
approved the expansion of its fibre capacity in Brazil and in its facility in Yixing, china for the Operational excellence programme, the Business continues to look carefully fused silica production.
it also established first established in 2010 with targets based at potential bolt-on acquisition opportunities a superwool fibre line in Kailong, china.
on a benchmarking programme that have that would enhance the offering in key markets, in north America and Malaysia the division accountability and responsibility at plant level, which together with a strong new business continued to invest in additional capacity for delivered the improvements that were pipeline leaves the division well-placed for next-generation hard disc drive components.
these locally based and managed the future.
initiatives continue to be co-ordinated and supported by engineering and R&d personnel to optimise manufacturing processes.
these now constitute a normal business activity.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 33
