Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 08 Review of operations In 2012 Ophir will more than double the number of wells it has drilled since it was founded.
The process of replenishing the portfolio of drilling targets continues through the acquisition of a series of 3D seismic programmes.
At year end acquisition had commenced in both Tanzania East Pande and Gabon Mbeli and Ntsina with preparations under way for further seismic acquisition in Gabon Manga and Gnondo.
These programmes will allow additional prospects to be matured for future drilling campaigns during 2012 and 2013.
In addition, planning and contracting had commenced for the second Equatorial Guinea drilling campaign which is currently due to commence in Q2 2012.
This programme, which will include a well in the expanded Block R area, will be designed to prove sufficient gas volumes to underpin an LNG development.
Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 and 4 The Ophir-operated three well programme which commenced in 2011 was another strong year for Ophirs Operations 2010 and was completed in 2011 has confirmed the prospectivity of team with the completion of a successful, operated the Ruvuma and Mafia Deep basins drilling campaign in Tanzania and the completion of a and has proven the presence of well drilled in the AGC.
To date Ophir has now operated potential reservoir facies in both the Tertiary and Cretaceous 9 deepwater wells in four countries with 5 of them stratigraphic sequences.
The resulting in commercial discoveries.
success in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 has, together with the discoveries by other Operators in adjacent acreage, opened up the East African play system and focused industry attention on the area.
Ophir has a significant acreage position in the play and a significant inventory of prospects which will underpin future exploration and appraisal campaigns.
At the end of 2011, BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 09 these are believed to contain more The Ophir-operated Deepsea 1 than 30TCF in gross un-risked Stavanger drilling campaign, which prospective resources.
had commenced in 2010, continued into 2011 with further success at Each of the three Tanzanian Chaza-1 in Block 1.
The well was deepwater wells have demonstrated drilled in 982m of water, reached the presence of multiple play a TD at a depth of 4,933m and was systems, all with significant followcompleted as the third consecutive up potential.
Although each has successful gas discovery in the encountered gas, the Group believes programme.
Chaza-1 encountered that, based upon detailed technical a gross 27m gas column in a studies, liquids are also possible in Miocene channel system and, the future.
These studies have together with the discoveries at characterised a number of potential Pweza-1 and Chaza-1, takes the hydrocarbon source rocks, ranging in total contingent resources age from Permo-Triassic to Eocene.
discovered in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to The three wells drilled to date have 2.4TCF with a further 1.6TCF of low targeted the centre of the basin, risk prospective resources.
where the main source intervals have been buried to a sufficient depth to generate gas the gas window.
To the east and west of this, the Group believes that the source intervals are less deeply buried and thus cooler.
In these areas the so-called oil window the organic rich material kerogens in the rock may have generated liquids.
1 Management estimate Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 10 Review of operations continued Each of the three discoveries had migration.
A further survey was of the three PSAs has been covered an associated amplitude seismic also planned northwest of the with 3D data and further seismic anomaly which was interpreted to Kusini survey in Block 1 to test the acquisition is anticipated be a Direct Hydrocarbon indicator extension of the play system proven during 2012.
Data from the wells has now by Chaza-1.
The second seismic been used to further calibrate the programme operated by Ophir, which The Group was originally awarded seismic attributes.
This analysis utilised the Fugro GeoCaspian a 100% interest in Block 1 on 29 will be used to further fide-risk the vessel, commenced during January October 2005.
Blocks 3 and 4 were exploration portfolio and focus the 2011 with acquisition of the Mafia subsequently awarded on 19 June future drilling programme.
East seismic survey in Blocks 3 and 2006, again on a 100% basis.
TPDC 2 4 where 3,250km of data were has back-in rights of 12% in Block Blocks 1, 3 and 4 are large, with a acquired in 44 days.
The vessel 1 and 15% in Blocks 3 and 4. combined area of more than subsequently moved to Block 1 2 2 20,000km after the statutory where it acquired 1,900km of data In April 2010 the Group entered relinquishments.
The original 3D in 35 days on the Kusini extension into a farm out agreement with BG Kusini and Mafia 3D seismic survey.
The programme was Group for a 60% interest in each 2 programme covered 3,500km and completed on 8 April 2011 and Block, with Ophir retaining the delineate only a small portion of the GeoCaspian released with no remaining 40%.
Under the terms of the possible play types.
As a LTIs or security-related incidents.
the farm out agreement BG had the consequence a further seismic Pre-stack Depth Migration right to take over Operatorship acquisition programme was processing of these surveys was after the completion of the first three planned outboard of the Mafia completed during the year and the wells and the Mafia East Kusini survey in Blocks 3 and 4 across the data has been used to mature Extension 3D seismic acquisition Seagap Ridge, a long-lived additional exploration prospects programme and consequently on feature within the basin which it is for inclusion in future drilling 1 July 2011 operatorship of all believed could be the focus of both campaigns.
Even after these new three Blocks was formally transferred oil and gas generation and surveys, less than half the area to BG.
As part of this arrangement BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 11 Further drilling is required to quantify the scale of the hydrocarbon resource and the dynamically positioned dual derrick semisubmersible rig Metro-1, which is owned and operated by Odfjell Drilling, was consequently secured for an extendable 12 month contract for a second drilling campaign.
The rig was mobilised from Singapore on 8 December 2011 to commence the 2012 drilling programme.
The initial programme is designed to test new play systems in the basin.
The initial programme consists of three wells: Jodari-1 formerly named 1V, Mzia-1 formerly 1W, and Papa-1 formerly 3A.
A further Capitalised Expenditure BG also took over operatorship of two wells are expected to be as at 31 December the Mtwara port facility on behalf spudded during 2012 and the of the other participating operators programme will continue Ophir, Petrobras and Statoil.
During 2011 the base has been upgraded to accommodate multiple The Group has recently announced operators working simultaneously.
the results of the Jodari-1 well drilled during Q1 2012.
This was Ophir shares BGs optimism the first well drilled with BG as about the commerciality of the operator and resulted in the discoveries and the Joint Venture Groups fourth successive, and has commenced development 51% Equatorial Guinea largest in the Groups history, gas planning for a two train onshore 40% Tanzania discovery in its Tanzania blocks LNG facility In Tanzania.
Screening 5% Gabon with a recoverable resource work has begun to identify a 2% Madagascar estimate of 3.4TCF.
2% East Pande potential site for an onshore LNG export facility and environmental assessments will commence during 2012.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 12 Review of operations continued Tanzania The success in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 has, together with the discoveries by other Operators in adjacent acreage, opened up the East African play system and focussed industry attention on the area.
Tanzania East Pande with volume estimates in excess of Ophir completed its farm in to the 500mmbbls but are currently high 2 7,500km East Pande Block on risk due to the limited data coverage.
The Group now holds A 12 month extension to the permit 70% equity, with Rakgas holding term was granted to allow Ophir the remaining 30%, and Ophir has sufficient time to acquire, process assumed operatorship of the Block.
and interpret a 3D seismic survey East Pande lies to the west of Blocks with a view to entering the next PSA 1, 3 and 4 and is believed to contain term and a future drilling the up-dip extension of the currently programme.
identified Tertiary and Cretaceous intraslope play systems, some of At year end the contracting process which have been proven in the deep was completed and Fugro were water.
Regional geoseismic studies mobilising the MV Geo Caribbean 2 suggest that the East Pande Blocks 3D survey.
to acquire a 2,100km location towards the rim of the basin Data from this survey should be may be too mature for liquids and available in the first half of 2012 gas generation.
to facilitate a drilling campaign late in 2012 or early in 2013.
Any The 2D seismic data coverage in the discoveries in East Pande are likely Block is sparse at present although to be close to the export pipeline a number of potentially attractive which will be used to transport gas to any future onshore LNG plant leads have been identified at different stratigraphic levels.
These leads are potentially large BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 13 The necessary infrastructure and services are already being assembled in country to provide the support for the next phase of operations in Equatorial Guinea.
Equatorial Guinea Equatorial Guinea Block R Equatorial Guinea has an Block R is located in the south established 3.4mmtpa LNG plant Significant progress was eastern part of the Niger Delta, at Punta Europa EGLNG 1 that made during 2011 on close to numerous oil and gas is operated by Marathon with the commercialisation discoveries in the Nigerian sector.
Sonagas, Mitsui and Marubeni as The licence, which covered an area JV partners.
Gas is transported of the Fortuna and Lykos 2 of 1,674km at the start of 2011, from the Alba Field Operated by gas discoveries.
was originally awarded in April Marathon with Gepetrol as a JV 2006.
Ophir drilled three wells on partner by pipeline to the Punta the Block in 2008, two of which Europa plant and the resulting LNG Fortuna-1 and Lykos-1 were is sold to BG through a sale and commercial gas discoveries.
The purchase agreement where it is discoveries at Fortuna 269bcf of marketed to the Far East.
The contingent resources, 572bcf of Government of Equatorial Guinea risked prospective resources and believe that sufficient gas has been Lykos 91bcf of contingent resources, discovered in the country to warrant 60bcf of risked prospective a second LNG train and have resources have substantially publicly expressed their support fide-risked a new play fairway at the for a second onshore plant, to be front of the Niger Delta thrust belt.
The These discoveries, together with feedstock gas for this is likely to the additional 10TCF of unrisked come principally from Block R, prospective resources which had although the recent discoveries been identified prior to the addition which have been made by Noble of the former Block C, will, it is Energy in Block I may provide believed, be sufficient for a additional gas to the project commercial export gas development.
The gas is dry, with no CO or H S, 2 2 making it ideal for liquefaction.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 14 Review of operations continued Ophir and its partners are using state-of-theart rigs to drill safely and effectively in deep water.
Significant progress was made during 2011 on the commercialisation of the Fortuna and Lykos gas discoveries.
The Government of Equatorial Guinea At year end preparations were underway for a second GEG has established a project drilling campaign which is expected to commence in delivery team PDT which will be accountable for ensuring that the Q2 2012. gas resources in the country are developed effectively.
This team consists of representatives from until the project Final Investment provide greater flexibility in the MMIE, the National Oil Decision FID which is currently reaching the 2.5TCF threshold Company GePetrol and the planned for 2013.
The current volume which is believed to be National Gas Company Sonagas.
exploration term was extended necessary to commit to a Train 2 A Memorandum of Understanding by 12 months and now expires development.
MoU was signed on 31 March on 18 April 2013.
This provides 2011 by the relevant stakeholders, additional time for Ophir to carry At year end preparations were including Ophir, committing to out further exploration and underway for a second drilling support the favoured development appraisal drilling prior to the end campaign which is expected to plan, which would see gas from of the exploration period.
The sixth Block R transported by a sub-sea step in the commercialisation generation deepwater drill rig the pipeline to a newly constructed process occurred in November Eirik Raude and ancillary services second LNG train at Punta Europa 2011 when Block C located to have been secured.
Subsurface and the northwest of Block R was programme is likely to consist of engineering studies have appended to Block R. The 3 firm and one contingent well commenced on this.
additional new acreage, which covering a mix of both exploration 2 covers an area of 773km, and appraisal targets.
To increase commercial increases the area of Block R to 2 optionality, Ophir has also 2,447km.
The acreage had Ophir has been able to retain a explored the possibility of an previously been relinquished by high equity in the project and alternative development utilising Repsol and Exxon and includes now believes that 2012 will be floating LNG FLNG technology.
two gas discoveries Oreja Marina the appropriate time to bring in The dry nature of the gas, together and Estrela del Mar which together a suitably qualified joint venture with the benign metocean contain c. 250bcf of dry gas as partner.
Preliminary approaches conditions in the Gulf of Guinea, well as the Tonel prospect with have been received from a number makes this an ideal location prospective resources of 510bcf.
of companies and it is hoped that for such a development.
Ophir Ophir has committed to drill a a farm out will be concluded after believes that FLNG technology three well programme, including the 2012 drilling programme.
is now sufficiently advanced to the Tonel prospect.
The additional provide a viable alternative to acreage increases the portfolio of a conventional onshore LNG drilling options available to Ophir scheme.
It will continue to be as well as providing additional carried as an alternate option proven gas resources.
These will BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 15 Gabon Gabon Ntsina, Mbeli The focus of exploration in Ntsina and Mbeli has switched to the pre-salt play which has recently come to prominence through a series of world-class discoveries in Brazil, and early in 2012 on the conjugate margin in Angola.
Across the conjugate margin from Gabon, Recent advances in seismic imaging technology now is Petrobras Carmopolis Field, allow pre-salt traps to be effectively mapped.
The main with an estimated 1.7Bbbls in focus of the seismic acquisition has been the Padouck place.
Until now, exploration of the pre-salt play in the North Gabon Deep prospect which has the potential to contain basin has been restricted by poor ca.
Recent advances in seismic imaging technology now allow pre-salt traps to be migration PSDM processing of structure, has the potential to be effectively mapped.
the data which will take much of volumetrically significant.
The terms of has consequently undertaken a 3D Seismic and gravity gradiometry the Ntsina and Mbeli PSCs will seismic programme in Manga in surveys have delineated a end in February 2014, allowing early 2012 to mature these into potentially significant pre-salt play sufficient time to fully explore drillable prospects.
The play system in the Blocks.
The main the pre-salt play.
system also extends into the focus of the seismic acquisition has southern part of the Ntsina Block been the Padouck Deep prospect Gabon Manga, Gnondo and the 3D survey has extended which has the potential to contain The pre-salt play has more limited into this Block.
Based upon the extent southward into Manga and relative immaturity of the play, Gnondo where the focus is instead Ophir elected to bring a JV partner on the post-salt stratigraphic with significant pre-salt experience section.
Recent discoveries in and consequently concluded a Brazilian waters, in particular farm out to Petrobras for 50% Petrobras 2010 11 Barra equity in each Block.
Under the discovery, suggest that this play terms of the agreement Petrobras could have analogues in the North is funding the cost of a new Gabon basin.
The 3D seismic data 2 2,200km seismic survey designed is currently limited, particularly in to image the pre-salt play system.
the potentially attractive area to The survey has been acquired by the west of the Loiret Dome where PGS early in 2012 and a key a series of stratigraphic onlap plays component of this programme will have been identified and leads be detailed pre-stack depth identified.
One of these, the Afo Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 16 Review of operations continued AGC Profond AGC AGC Profond Two farm outs were completed in 2011: the first of these was for 8.8% equity to FAR Limited in March 2011 with a further 17.5% being divested to Noble Energy in June 2011.
The terms of these farm outs included promoted contributions to the costs of the first well on the Block, Kora-1 up to a gross first well cost of $40 million, Ophir has undertaken a 3D seismic programme and should they elect to participate in petroleum operations, a in Manga in early 2012 to mature these into promoted amount of the costs of drillable prospects.
any second well uncapped and US$35 million of appraisal expenditure on Ophirs behalf.
The Pachg Liba prospect, in the Acquisition of the two 3D surveys The Kora-1 well was drilled to Gnondo block, is covered by a was completed in January 2012. a total depth of 4,447.5mSS on limited amount of 2D seismic data Processed data will be available 27 July 2011 and the rig was which, to this point, has precluded in early 2013.
Once this has been subsequently released on 31 July it from being matured to a drilling interpreted a farminee will be sought 2011 with no LTIs.
Acquisition of a prospectfor the next stage, to include Albian and secondary Coniacian specific 3D seismic survey would potential drilling in 1H 2013. and Barremian reservoir intervals be very cost inefficient unless it were penetrated close to their can be included as part of a wider anticipated depths, but the well survey.
The activity in the other encountered a predominantly Ophir-Operated Gabon blocks has claystone and thinly bedded allowed this survey to be included limestone sequence, rather than as part of the larger programme the prognosed sandstone reservoir recorded in early 2012. facies.
The well was plugged and abandoned and the technical assessment will continue through the first half of 2012 to characterise the remaining potential of the Block ahead of a drill or drop decision in mid-2012.
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 17 Congo-Brazzaville Madagascar Somaliland Saharawi Arab Marine IX Democratic Republic Congo-Brazzaville Marine IX Madagascar Marovoay Block Somaliland Block SL9 Berbera Ophir assumed the role of Operator 2011 has seen the interpretation During 2011 Ophirs geotechnical from 1 May 2011.
Three play of the airborne gradiometry team continued its interpretation systems have been identified in survey in order to better define of the existing legacy data on Block the Block.
These are: a Tertiary play the subsurface structure.
The data SL9 and to fully integrate surface system, as proven by the nearby has been integrated with existing geological information with the Moho Bilondo discoveries, an seismic data and at year end the seismic data which covers the Block.
Albian raft play, which was tested final interpretation was underway.
This will be used to determine by Frida-1 and a pre salt Gamba The JV faces a drill or drop decision possible future drill locations.
Of these, the first two have in Q2 2012 and at that point will been fully explored within the elect whether to drill a well on Ophir has continued to work closely Block and the Group is confident the Block or to farm out.
On 17 with the Government of Somaliland that no potential remains.
The November 2011, the Group and to adapt the Petroleum Sharing pre-salt play, however, has not Octant Energy Madagascar Ltd Contract to reflect the expected been explored to date and the JV entered into an Option agreement work programme prior to the Group has gained a 12month extension to whereby Ophir Madagascar taking on a drilling commitment on the current PSC term in order to granted Octant Energy the right to the Block.
The agreed amendments carry out a full prospectivity farm in to the Marovay PSC for a include the extension of the block assessment of the block.
As part of 50% participating interest subject via the addition of a vacant Block this assessment a gradiometry to the satisfaction of certain to the west of the Ophir acreage.
survey has been acquired in early conditions precedent and the January 2012 and once integrated payment of certain exploration SADR Daora, Haouza, with the existing seismic data a costs and expenses.
Mahbes, Mijek decision will be made regarding Ophir continues to monitor activities possible future drilling.
JDZ Ophir elected to withdraw from the JDZ PSC in March 2011.
All the commitments had been fulfilled and the permit was exited in good standing.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 18 Review of operations continued Block L-15 Kenya Block L-9 Tanzania Tanzania Dominion Petroleum Assets The Groups acquisition of Dominion Block 7 Petroleum Ltd closed in February 2012 and added the following assets to the Groups portfolio: Tanzania Block 7 2 Kenya Block L-9 The Lamu basin has the potential Block 7 is an 8,475km block 2 Block L-9 covers 5,110km offshore to contain both gas and liquids as located on the continental slope of Kenya on the Davy-Walu structural demonstrated by previous wells in the Indian Ocean immediately east trend.
Ophir currently has 100% the area.
Synthetic aperture radar of Dar es Salaam.
Water depths in operatorship and working interest has also identified possible oil Block 7 range from less than 400m in the L-9, but is in the process of seeps locally.
Adjacent to L-9 are to more than 2,500m.
transferring 30% to Flow Energy blocks being operated by Apache Limited and 10% to Avana and Anadarko.
The Mbawa prospect During June 2010, a competent Petroleum Limited.
The JOA is in the Apache-operated block L-8 is persons report was prepared by being finalised.
The L-9 PSC was along trend from similar features in Energy Resource Consultants Ltd. signed by Dominion with the L-9.
Mbawa is to be drilled by ERC on Block 7, which included Kenyan government on 17 May Apache in Q3, 2012.
Ophir has the Alpha prospect.
During the first two year signed an agreement to work with concluded that the Alpha prospect exploration period, Ophir has a Apache in a 3D seismic programme has a mean prospective unrisked 2 commitment to shoot 500km of 3D over the L-8 L-9 Mbawa South area resource of 1.104Bbbl of oil or seismic data, reprocess 2,500km of in Q1 2012.
It is planned this will 7.069TCF of gas.
ERC have risked 2D seismic and carry out geological lead to potential drilling in L9 the prospect with a CoS of 12% as and geophysical field studies.
Net risked mean resource: 134MMboe or 848Bcf.
Ophir is now operator and with an 80% participating interest in the block.
Further potential identified outside of 3D has led to infill 2D acquisition in early 2012 with potential drilling planned for 1H 2013. BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 19 Ophirs expansion in Tanzania and entry into Kenya ensures a level of exploration activity extending well beyond the current drilling programme.
Participating Gross area 2 Jurisdiction Asset Operator Interest km Tanzania Block 7 Dominion 80% 8,475 Kenya Block L-9 Dominion 60% 5,110 Kenya Block L-15 Dominion 100% 2,331 Uganda Area 4B Dominion 95% 486 DRC Block 5 SOCO 46.75% 7,447 Kenya Block L15 Block L-15 of the Lamu Basin, Total 23,849 offshore Kenya covers an area of 2 2,331km and lies to the north of L-9 and is also on the Davy-Walu structural trend.
The only well in sedimentary rocks capable of DRC Block V Block L-15 is Kofia-1, which was generating oil.
A satellite radarBlock V in the Democratic Republic drilled by Union Oil in 1985 and imaging survey has suggested of Congo DRC incorporates 2 encountered oil and gas shows the presence of oil seeps on Lake 7,447km of land and lake areas.
It in the Palaeogene and Upper Edward.
During the second half of lies to the west of and includes part Cretaceous intervals.
The L-15 PSC 2008, around 540km of 2D seismic of Lake Edward and adjoins EA4B in was signed on 5 October, 2011 and was acquired on land and lake Uganda.
Both blocks are part of the Ophir now holds 100% working areas.
Interpretation of the seismic Albertine rift system of sedimentary interest and operatorship in the has shown the presence of a deep basins where significant oil block.
Ophir is planning a 3D sedimentary basin broken into discoveries have been made since seismic programme in Q3 2012, fault blocks by numerous 2006.
Ophir now holds a 46.75% with potential drilling in 2013. extensional faults.
participating interest in Block V with SOCO.
During the first 5 year Uganda Exploration Area 4B In 2010, Dominion drilled the phase of the Block V PSC, Ophir and Exploration Area 4B EA4B is a Ngaji-1 well to a total depth of its partners are committed to an 2 993km licence located in south- 1,765m.
The well did not identify exploration programme which west Uganda and is inclusive of the hydrocarbons but did confirm the includes at least 300km of seismic majority of the Ugandan section of presence of high quality reservoir data and two exploration wells.
On 27 April, 2011, Dominion 100% participating interest and applied for the renewal of the operatorship in EA4B.
In early exploration licence for EA4B for 2008, an airborne gravity and the third two-year period, which magnetic survey was acquired expires in July 2013.
This continues which proved a presence of to be discussed with the substantial thickness of Government of Uganda.
