Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 38 Review of Operations shortage in key EDE products.
As well as growing our Throughout the year we continued to invest in and execute Operations business with existing customers we have also acquired ourstrategy in order to leverage the strength of our proposition Marketing and Distribution Division MDD newcustomers and in the year the MDD active customer tocapitalise on the structural growth opportunities in the MDD Comprises: Newark, Farnell, element14, CPC and MCM base grew 5.9% year-on-year.
The Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific regions all saw strong sales growth and our key 2011 2010 Our focus at the start of this year was to return to the size emerging markets, Greater China, India and Eastern Europe, m m Growth wewere before the downturn.
Through the continued saw a combined sales growth of 73.1% as we continue to Revenue 907.8 718.4 23.1% execution of our strategy and by capitalising on the significant strengthen our proposition in these territories.
opportunities for growth in our market, MDD has achieved Underlying operating profit 113.1 69.8 55.9% thisand more.
MDD sales this year were 907.8 million and In October our Asia Pacific businesses became the first Underlying operating margin % 12.5% 9.7% when compared to our full year sales from two years ago, region to be completely rebranded to element14.
This which were 727.1million, the Divisions sales have grown evolutionary step is a milestone in our transformation that Excluding restructuring costs in 2010 of 7.6 million and the one-off gain arising of 11.6% at constant exchange rates, despite crossing the revolutionises our Asia Pacific proposition through fusing 5.3million from the reorganisation of the Groups North American pension plans.
commerce, community and content under a single brand.
Through continued strategic focus on the EDE sector, the web This move follows our investments in Asia Pacific that have Year-on-year sales growth increased progressively from 6.7% and the internationalisation of our business, MDD Americas, built the broadest locally held inventory of technology in the final quarter of 2010 to 21.3% and 32.4% in the first Europe and Asia Pacific have again delivered market-leading products in region and strengthened our high service quarter and second quarters, respectively.
Sales growth in sales growth throughout the year.
Investment in innovation capabilities to offer an unrivalled next day delivery proposition thethird quarter and fourth quarter grew 25.2% and 14.6% and the strength of our proposition, combined with continued to almost every part of the region, including 130 Chinese year-on-year, respectively, despite the tougher comparators.
focus on the basics of high service distribution have been cities.
These investments, together with the strength of the Inaddition, the Division also sustained an improving quarterfundamental to our continued progress in driving market element14 brand, will enable us to accelerate our growth in on-quarter trend in its sales performance throughout the year share gains.
Asia Pacific as we target to double the size of the business and MDD exited the year with fourth quarter sales up 1.5% on aspart of our 1,000 day strategy.
Since we launched our core strategy we have continued to the third quarter, which is counter seasonal for our business.
invest in our web-centric EDE proposition and global supply Investments in e-centric enhancements to our proposition The Divisions strategic focus to deliver profitable growth, chain.
Leveraging such investments to drive market share continue to add significant value which has been fundamental combined with the benefit of cost actions taken and the gains has been and continues to be a focus for the division to our market share performance.
Full year sales from iBuy, positive impact of our operating leverage, continues to drive aswe look to build on the percentage point of market our innovative eProcurement solution, have seen strong an increase in its underlying return on sales.
For the year, sharewe have gained since we started measuring results growth, up 132.2% and 287.7% year-on-year in Europe and theDivisions return on sales was 12.5%, up from 9.7% in atthebeginning of our Business Agenda.
In addition, our inAsia Pacific, respectively.
In North America sales from this theprior year.
investments in inventory throughout the downturn and industry leading solution were growing 15.6%  this year have enabled us to fully support quarter aswe exited the year and the number of new ourcustomers needs through periods of significant market customers adopting iBuy in the region remained encouraging.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 48 transactional websites in the finalquarter of the year we launched a French language website in Switzerland In the finalquarter of the year we launched a French language Product and supplier portfolio New and extended supplier relationships include: website in Switzerland to take our number of transactional The Group continues to have a differentiating and world-class Major new suppliers websites up to 48 and local language websites to 33.
These EDE and MRO line card that includes most of the worlds ARDUINO Development Tools developments and many more that were made during the year leading electronic component brands as well as a strong NXP Semiconductors have been instrumental to the Divisions web sales growing baseof selected suppliers of emerging technology.
The SAMSUNG various 44.6% on the prior year.
eCommerce accounted for 47.6% development of our locally held product portfolio in Asia oftotal sales for the Division and exited the year accounting Pacific region has now globalised the availability of this TDK Passives for 51.1%, as our content-rich web environments continue product portfolio within the high service standards to which VISHAY Passives toincrease as our customers channel of choice.
The introduction of rapid prototyping solutions YAGEO Passives inthe fourth quarter of the year has developed our supplier In its first full year since acquisition the positive impact of portfolio further into the provision of value adding services.
New emerging technology suppliers CadSoft Computer GmbH has been significantly increased We continually review our franchise portfolio and this year through the integration of the enhanced CadSoft proposition ACCELERATED DESIGNS Electronic Design automation weadded a total of 43 new and extended franchise with element14 and our transactional websites.
This integrated EDa agreements, and more than 150 since we started our strategy.
offering has been enhanced throughout the year as we have AMICUS Development Tools The strengthening and expanding of our supplier line case continued to invest in the development of CadSofts EAGLE CARCLO Sensors ensures that we have the right products portfolio to meet software.
We have launched a freemium version of the boththe developing technological needs of EDE customers CIRCUITCO Technical Plastics software, as well as Mandarin and Hungarian versions.
working at the leading edge of design and of profitable MRO CLANDELL Optoelectronics Morerecently we launched a version of the software which customers requiring specific products for the maintenance DEMMEL Optoelectronics provides EDEs with access to our own product, inventory and and repair work they conduct.
In support of our focus towards ENERGY MICRO Microprocessors pricing information plus the ability to create bills of materials strengthening our supplier portfolio we continued to conduct FISCHER ELEKTRONIK Connectors with our order codes and load a shopping cart on our a number of technical and corporate social responsibility transactional websites, all from within their CAD environment.
GENESIC SEMICONDUCTOR Semiconductors audits of new and existing suppliers.
In conjunction with the release of this new version of EAGLE, GLOBAL CONNECTOR welaunched a global online rapid Printed Circuit Board PCB TECHNOLOGY Connectors prototyping service on element14.
This truly differentiating HARVARD ENGINEERING Optoelectronics enhancement provides EDEs with a prototyping solution IMO PRECISION CONTROLS automation and Control which can be accessed directly from within their virtual INNOVATE SOFTWARE designenvironment or via the element14 community.
SOLUTIONS Development Tools INVENSENSE Sensors LEDIL Optoelectronics LEOPARD IMAGING Development Tools LIGHTECH Optoelectronics Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 40 Review of Operations continued 72,500 new EDE products we added 14,700 esoteric EDE products that are new-to-market technologies, and a further 57,800 to extend our product offering in existing technologies New emerging technology suppliers continued Our continually evolving EDE proposition, now extending MDD americas beyond the distribution of product towards our goal of Newark LUMEX Optoelectronics becoming an integrator of hardware, software and services 2011 2010 LUMINUS Optoelectronics m m Growth including rapid prototyping, makes it attractive for suppliers MTUBE Optoelectronics toform partnerships with us that result in their new and Revenue 386.3 310.0 20.2% MICRIUM Embedded Software innovative products being seeded to our extensive global MICRO COMMERCIAL Underlying operating profit 29.1 12.3 129.9% customer base, helping them accelerate time-to-market.
COMPONENTS Discretes Usinganalytical data and information from our element14 Underlying operating margin % 7.5% 4.0% MYAVR Development Tools community and transactional websites we can provide Excluding restructuring costs in 2010 of 4.7 million and the one-off gain arising of NLD ELECTRONIC Optoelectronics suppliers with insights on how engineers make their 5.0million from the reorganisation of the Groups North American pension plans.
Such information is valued NORGREN automation and Control byoursuppliers and often results in us benefiting in MDD Americas comprises Newark and Farnell Newark, OLIMEX PCB Prototyping programmes of differentiation including master sampling ourBrazilian business.
Customers include electronic design OSA OPTOLIGHT Optoelectronics programmes and enhanced franchise support.
This support engineers, maintenance repair technicians and purchasing PENTALOGIX PCB Prototyping extends to marketing investment when launching new professionals in the US, Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
ROAL Optoelectronics products to market and product exclusives, as well as In North America our business delivered year-on-year SENSONOR Sensors theability to return slow selling or obsolete products.
salesgrowth of 20.2% which, with the benefit of the prior SILVERTRONIC Test and Measurement In the course of the year we added 14,700 esoteric EDE yearrestructuring activities undertaken to align the cost SPECTRUM DIGITAL products that are new-to-market technologies and a basetoour web focused model, resulted in operating INCORPORATED Development Tools further57,800 to extend our product offering in existing profitgrowthof129.9%.
The benefits of these structural SYNQOR Power Supplies technologies.
Whilst the addition of new EDE and profitable changes are beginning to be reflected and have been TERASIC Development Tools MRO productsto our range is key to our proposition and fundamental indriving the continued progress of MDD TOPCO SNT Radio Frequency RF growth wecontinually review the performance of existing Americas returnonsales, which improved for the year products and during the year we also deleted many TXC RF by3.5percentage points to 7.5%.
productsfrom ourstock holding range that no longer fit Z-LASER Optoelectronics withinour strategic goals or listing criteria.
The Divisions portfolio hasastrong, well-balanced mix of established andemerging technology suppliers across the globe, providing design engineers with unparalleled access todepthand breadth ofproduct.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 eCommerce accounted for 33.9% of MDD Americas full year MDD Europe and asia Pacific Our investments in the strategy, including our rebranding sales, which is an 10.1 percentage point increase year-on-year.
Farnell and element14 inAsia Pacific, have created a very strong proposition for This increase in MDD Americas eCommerce penetration has 2011 2010 future growth.
m m Growth and continues to deliver significant cost benefits, supporting Revenue by region the improvement in the business return on sales.
Revenue 423.5 317.0 30.7% 2011 2010 A further 35,000 products were added during the year Underlying operating profit 74.7 48.5 46.9% m m Growth ofwhich 25,400 were EDE specific.
There was continued Underlying operating margin % 17.6% 15.3% UK including exports 143.2 111.8 28.0% progress into the design engineering space with sales of development tools and other services beyond products Mainland Europe 215.9 161.8 31.5% Excluding restructuring costs in 2010 of 2.9 million.
growing 41.1% as we exited the year.
Our increasing ability Asia Pacific 64.4 43.4 34.4% tomeet the broad requirements of our targeted EDE MDD Europe and Asia Pacific sales grew 30.7% for customerbase has allowed Newark to add 23,000 EDE theyear, with strong growth in each region throughout UK including exports customers during the year.
theyearreflecting the strength inherent in our strategy.
Farnell UK sales, excluding exports, grew 21.6% for the Theefficiency of our web focused operating model year.
The business has continued to capitalise on the market With the structure and cost base of the business now allowedunderlying operating margin to improve by opportunities it has and through the development of refined consistent with our multi-channel approach and with the web 2.3percentage points to 17.6%.
marketing activities and product segmentation strategies increasingly becoming our customers channel of choice we ourUK business has added 2,500 new customers in the year.
are now making progress towards our target of delivery of With the continued development of our EDE community Thisbusiness strong web presence drove an increase inweb return on sales at levels similar to our other MDD businesses.
andservices beyond product offering the web is becoming sales of 41.0% year-on-year in the region and the business increasingly dominant as our customers channel of choice.
exited the final quarter of the year with 55.2% ofsales coming Web sales increased by 46.4% with eCommerce sales via eCommerce.
In the wider UK market theAssociation of accounting for 65.8% of total sales as we exited the year.
Franchised Distributors of Electronic Components AFDEC Thisincludes web sales growing 90.7% year-on-year in reported sales growth of 27.2% excluding Farnell, for the year.
Eastern Europe, where we saw total annual sales growth of68.3%.
This progression in the Divisions transition to theweb, combined with the benefit of increasing sales to thehigher margin EDE sector and the cost actions taken lastyearcontinue to positively impact our profitability.
Sales from our targeted international markets Eastern Europe, Greater China and India all achieved strong year onyear growth in all four quarters.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 42 Review of Operations continued 60.9% web sales in Asia Pacific grew 60.9% year-on-year Mainland Europe In Asia Pacific we increased our number of regionally stocked CPC During the year Mainland Europe saw sales grow 31.5% products to 122,000 up from 60,000, building the broadest Market conditions in the UK electrical and electronic forthe year, and the region exited the year with strong locally held inventory of EDE products in the Asia Pacific high equipment and accessories market continued to be momentum as sales in the fourth quarter grew 22.8%.
service industry prior to combining our businesses under challenging throughout the year.
CPC achieved an impressive Thisfullyear performance compares to the wider European theelement14 brand.
These actions combined with continued full year sales growth of 6.4%.
The business strong value market, where the Distributors and Manufacturers Association investment in our service proposition and in Search Engine proposition combined with investment to enhance customer of Semiconductor Specialists DMASS reported sales growth Optimisation SEO and Search Engine Marketing SEM leave experience and innovative product selection has seen web of 53.6% in the 2010 calendar year.
the business with an unparalleled opportunity to take market sales grow 17.5% year-on-year.
During the year 8,000 new share and grow profitably.
products were added to the CPC product range, enhancing Asia Pacific both its branded and private label product offerings with In Asia Pacific sales grew 34.4% year-on-year, led by the Other Distribution Businesses purchasing activity increasingly focused in Asia Pacific.
strong performance of Greater China and India.
eCommerce CPC and MCM Marketing continues to focus on a multi-channel approach in the region accounted for 55.5% of sales, while web sales 2011 2010 with a combination of eCommerce marketing, direct mail m m Growth grew 60.9% year-on-year.
This web growth, in part, was andcatalogue production.
In addition CPC has embraced driven by the successful launch of our new online businesses Revenue 98.0 91.4 6.6% new social media marketing activities which has led to 3,500 in Taiwan, Thailand and South Korea.
potential customer leads this year.
Underlying operating profit 9.3 9.0 3.1% With the rebranding of our Asia Pacific business to element14 Underlying operating margin % 9.5% 9.8% MCM combined complete, our investments in region will continue to MCM has seen year-on-year sales growth of 6.9% for be a focused towards drive customer acquisition, building on Excluding the one-off gain in 2010 of 0.3 million from the reorganisation of the Groups theyear.
The business continues to focus on its strategic the 9.9% growth in Asia Pacifics active customer base seen North American pension plans.
transition to a web focused business reducing reliance this year.
Growth has been achieved Both CPC and MCM predominantly serve the consumer through focus on innovative new product additions and electronics markets in the UK and North America, marketing which have resulted in the addition of 5,500 respectively.
Full year sales for these two businesses grew newproducts during the year.
Combined full year underlying profit grew3.1% year-on-year, although the underlying operating margin declined 0.3 percentage points year-on-year to 9.5%, reflecting the highly competitive marketplace that these businesses operate in.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 industrial Products Division iPD Akron Brass TPC Wire & Cable TPC Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable Akron Brass is a market-leader in the manufacture and sale TPC is a distributor of high performance electrical wire, cable At the start of the year IPD was comprised of two businesses: ofhigh performance fire-fighting equipment for fire truck and connectors designed for heavy duty or harsh industrial Akron Brass and TPC Wire & Cable, both supplying high manufacturers, public fire services and industrial facilities.
environments in the US, Canada and Mexico.
performance products to specialist industrial markets.
On Itsproducts are designed to improve the safety and efficiency Following its successful transition to a multi-sector focused 31January 2011, just after the financial year end, the Group of personnel and equipment engaged in the suppression of business in the prior year, TPC saw sales growth of 40.4% disposed of TPC Wire & Cable see page 44 for further details.
fire and also includes lighting and electrical control solutions.
This was achieved through a combination of strong It sells through its own field sales force and through 2011 2010 growth in its new focus market segments as well as some distributors to customers around the world.
m m Growth recovery in its historic steel and auto markets.
Domestic sales in the US are focused either directly Revenue 83.0 76.9 5.3% orindirectly on government spending.
The economic Underlying operating profit 14.2 13.6 1.6% environment continues to impact significantly on these Underlying operating margin 17.1% 17.7% markets.
However, the strength of the Akron Brass brand, combined with effective cost control and well established Excluding the one-off gain in 2010 of 1.0 million from the reorganisation of the Groups customer relationships resulted in the business returning to North American pension plans.
growth in the fourth quarter with sales up 1.6% year-on-year.
For the year Akron Brass sales declined 2.8% year-on-year.
The Industrial Products Division has historically predominantly supplied products for North American industrial markets.
Akron Brass has a significant share of the North American Akron Brass is increasingly combining its continued focus on market and over the year the business has continued to seek home markets with expansion into international markets.
Full growth by broadening its product range and reach into new year sales for the Division increased by 5.3% and underlying geographic and industrial markets.
This strategy has reduced operating profit grew 1.6%.
However, the Divisions underlying reliance on the key US markets and international sales in the operating margin was impacted by the sales performance of fourth quarter represented 28.6% of all sales.
Akron Brass, with the full year underlying operating margin at 17.1%, down 0.6 percentage points year-on-year.
