Neil Hawkings Operations Director We have made significant progress on the engineering and screening studies and concept selection is expected imminently.
As operator, we are now in a much stronger position to advance the development of the Catcher areas discovered resources.
16 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements Q Are you looking for further acquisitions?
Review A We are always looking at opportunities, which have the potential to add 4 shareholder value.
Focus Wytch Farm Increased stake in one of our long-term assets Location UK IN DECEMBER 2011, PREMIER ACQUIRED AN ADDITIONAL 17.7 PER CENT STAKE IN THE PRODUCING WYTCH FARM FIELD AND ITS UNDEVELOPED BEACON SATELLITE.
THE TRANSACTION HAS ADDED APPROXIMATELY 2,500 BOEPD NET PRODUCTION WITH RESERVES UPSIDE IN BOTH WYTCH FARM AND BEACON.
Profile In 1984, Premier purchased a 12.38 per cent interest in the onshore oilfield at Wytch Farm in Dorset.
This acquisition had a significant impact on Premiers reserve base and cash flow.
In December 2011, Premier completed its acquisition of an additional 17.7 per cent interest in the Wytch Farm and Beacon fields, taking its interest in these assets to 30.1 per cent.
Perenco also acquired operatorship of Wytch Farm in December 2011.
Drilling activity was suspended by the previous operator BP in 2009 but has recently restarted under Perencos operatorship.
Premier believes that sufficient reserves-adding opportunities exist to sustain an active rig programme to 2017 and beyond.
Drilling activity will target infill locations in the producing areas as well as undeveloped satellite accumulations.
Outlook Acquisition adds approximately 12 mmboe of net reserves and 2,500 boepd of net production in 2012 Active drilling programme Infill drilling in producing reservoirs to accelerate production and optimise recovery Bringing into production of satellite discoveries onshore Development planning for the significant Beacon satellite field offshore Long-term production and reserves upside through optimised waterflood management in producing fields Nigel Wilson North Sea Regional Manager We are pleased to have increased our equity stake in one of our quality core producing assets to over 30 per cent.
We look forward to an active drilling programme and to working with Perenco to deliver maximum value from Wytch Farm.
18 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements Q What does Corporate Social Responsibility mean to Premier?
Review A It is about doing the right thing as well as managing risk and protecting our reputation.
Its about investing 5 in the community and people.
