Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 16 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 17 Operating review Following the major structural changes of the last two years, in 2011 we have made considerable investments in the development of our people and our brand to ensure Redrow remains an innovative, customer focused business with a unique culture John Tutte and a premium product.
Group Managing Director Trading, particularly in the first half, was more challenging than Value of private order book at June 2011 most anticipated.
Thankfully, the far-reaching changes we made to the operational side of the n New Heritage Collection 67.8m business in the previous year n Other 46.4m meant we were better placed to deal with a more challenging business environment.
Although change featured less in 2011, we did make two notable Private order book m announcements that will significantly affect the direction and performance of the business in the future: the opening of a new 114.2 Division in London and the sale of our business in Scotland.
97.9 83.9 London accounts for a large proportion of the nations wealth and household growth, demand in the capital has been consistently high and there are plenty of attractive development opportunities to Jun 09 Jun 10 Jun 11 deliver good levels of return.
By contrast, despite operating in Scotland for a number of years, we were not making acceptable Note: comparative order book figures exclude Scotland returns and additionally incurred disproportionate costs in connection with the different planning, building regulation and legal systems.
The release of capital from the disposal of the business will support our strategy to grow in London and the South East.
"""The Group recorded private Sales and Marketing reservations valuing c. 416m The market was weak at the start of the financial year and this in the year an increase of c. 16% remained the case throughout the first half."
"An opening private on the previous year. """
order book of 597 units was in line with the previous year but was % 18% ahead in terms of revenue due to a higher average selling price.
16 In the first half we reserved 985 units and 172m of turnover compared to 1,060 units and 161m in the stronger comparable period the previous year.
The sales performance towards the end of Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 18 Our Pride Your Joy Marketing Campaign Pre and Post Campaign Research Quantitative vox-pop research demonstrated clear changes in how Redrow and its product is viewed.
More people now associate Redrow with phrases such as quality, trustworthy, traditional exterior, modern interior, professional and distinctive.
Analytics revealed a significant uplift in visitors and enquiries to not only our website and Redrow TV but we achieved a 19% increase in visitor levels to our developments during the Our Pride Your Joy marketing campaign period.
Leading the way In support of Redrows return to traditional values, we created a Redrow continues to lead the way in the homebuilding sector wide range of highly effective messages based around the core with its innovative marketing activity.
Thanks to the theme of Our Pride Your Joy.
This activity has shown introduction of the new Microsoft TAGs technology.
This can be impressive results, both in customer numbers and public viewed via tv.
perception of the Redrow brand.
Awards Our Objectives We have been proud to have our achievements recognised with The Our Pride Your Joy campaign objective was to reassure several prestigious awards over the last year.
We won the top the consumer that we understand how important their home is accolade at the Marketing Society Northern Awards 2011 for to them and that we have the experience and expertise to not the Our Pride Your Joy campaign in the property and only help them through the home buying process, but deliver construction category and also Best Marketing Initiative at the them a home they will be proud to call their own.
the first half was also affected by unusually bad weather.
disposal, ending the year with 74 outlets.
At the year end we were Reservations per outlet per week in the first half averaged 0.47. operating from 52 New Heritage outlets, c. 70% of the Groups sites and we expect to see this rise to c. 80% in the coming year.
The year was very much one of two halves with much stronger trading in the second half.
Enquiries to our website increased with Houses represented over 70% of legal completions in the year as a the help of a regional TV campaign and site visitor levels improved, result of the switch to the New Heritage Collection and a move this all helped increase reservations per outlet to 0.54 for the full away from apartments.
The average size of our private product year.
The cancellation rate in the year was 18%, broadly in line with increased from 892 sq ft to 956 sq ft. the previous year.
We completed our In the City schemes in Birmingham and carried Our experience during the year was one of stable prices overall.
over six plots at our remaining In the City development in Barking.
Our private average selling price increased by 13% to 174,100 due We also made considerable progress in working out our last Debut to the continuing shift in mix as a consequence of the roll out of the schemes and we ended the year with only 9 plots to sell on one site.
The largest increases in selling price were Social housing accounted for just 13% of legal completions and 8% achieved in the Midlands, North West and South Wales where we of residential turnover: a reduction on the previous year mainly due were able to bring on stream more New Heritage Collection sites to the timing of social housing from new outlets coming on stream.
Part Exchange is an attractive option for many of our customers and We started the year with 74 outlets.
We opened 34 new outlets in we anticipate a higher take up of this incentive as we continue to the year and also closed 34, including 8 sold as part of the Scotland grow the New Heritage business and raise our average selling price: About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 19 Our website continues to be the predominant source of enquiries to Private legal completions our sites assisted by other mainstream property portals.
The website recorded c. 1.5m hits in the year, with visitors to the site in the 2011 second half almost double those in the first six months.
Our award n New Heritage Collection 708 winning Redrow TV channel continues to expand its content and n Debut In the City 252 plays a key role in our overall marketing strategy.
n Other 1337 Build Activity 2010 Year on year build output increased as a result of the higher number n New Heritage Collection 67 of operating outlets and the larger average floor areas of those units n Debut In the City 439 we constructed.
n Other 1708 Part Exchange accounted for 13% of private reservations in the HBF 5 Star Home Builder financial year.
Outside our Partnership scheme in Manchester, we sparingly use easi:buy, our own shared equity scheme.
We have The HBF National New Home Customer Satisfaction Survey however continued to successfully use our remaining allocation of is one of the most respected surveys of its kind.
In its most HomeBuy funds and, as a result, shared equity schemes in total recent survey published in March, Redrow was delighted to were used in one form or another on 17% of private reservations.
become one of only two major housebuilders to be awarded We were successful in securing an allocation of 5.5m under the a 5 Star rating.
This top standard is reserved for companies FirstBuy scheme announced in the Budget, and we have already where over 90% of customers would recommend them to a taken our first reservations under this initiative that is aimed at friend: and where at least 90% of purchasers are satisfied helping first time buyers.
with the quality of their new home.
Trenchwood Gardens, Telford, Shropshire Mulberry Grange, Hambleton, Yorkshire Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 20 Quality alongside Health and Safety, are key measures for our build independent adjudication panel, our hard work in this most teams.
In terms of quality, we monitor NHBC inspection records and important part of our business has been recognised by a second the number of Reportable Items: over the past year, the number of consecutive RoSPA Gold Medal Award for Occupational Health and items per inspection reduced to 0.25 2010: 0.26.
managers gained NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
Our Accident Incident Rate AIR, an industry standard measure of accident occurrence, increased in the year to 685 from 426 the We employ an external independent agency to telephone survey all previous year.
The rise was largely due to a higher number of minor our customers about six weeks after taking occupation.
Over the injuries associated with manual handling and an increase in the past year we have maintained our high levels of customer number of workers directly employed on site to meet rising levels of satisfaction: 93% 2010: 92% are satisfied or very satisfied with output.
their new home and 96% 2010: 96% would recommend us to a friend.
Our leading position on customer satisfaction was also Build costs remained relatively stable throughout the year although endorsed by a five star award in the most recent HBF National New there was growing pressure on the cost of those materials where Home Customer Satisfaction Survey published in March: one of only the manufacturing process consumes high levels of energy.
There two major housebuilders to receive the highest award.
was also some emerging price pressure on timber and timber related products.
Overall the Group has managed to contain any The Health and Safety of our customers, employees, contractors and significant increase in its build cost base by largely offsetting any suppliers is a priority for the business.
Our internal Health and rises with volume related reductions elsewhere.
Wider use of the Safety team ensure we maintain safe working environments New Heritage Collection assists in expanding the use of Group-wide through regular site inspections, training and on-the-job toolbox supplier deals and also allows us to more tightly monitor and talks.
It is very pleasing to report that following receipt of a Gold control build costs.
Award for the sixth year running for our submission to RoSPAs Sandy Lane, Chorley, Lancashire About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 21 96% Land Across the year 93% of our We focused on buying land for the New Heritage Collection during the year, and bought or acquired under contract 2,367 plots across customers were satisfied or 31 sites.
We disposed of 831 plots through the sale of the Scottish Division and the land bank was further reduced by 890 plots as a very satisfied with their new consequence of re-planning some sites to more marketable lower home and 96% would density mixes together with a small number of strategic land sales.
The net impact was to reduce the land bank to 11,190 plots recommend us to a friend.
Whilst the land bank has reduced in terms of plots, the quality has increased as we replace lower value plots with higher value land suitable for the New finalising land owner negotiations remains a frustrating and lengthy Heritage Collection product.
At the end of the year, after transferring 207 plots to the Geographically we have increased the weighting of our land bank to current land bank, the forward land bank stood at 22,150 plots the south which now accounts for 36% 2010: 32% of plots owned 2010: 21,500 of which, over 41% were allocated.
London Forward land remains an important future source of land for the We formed a new division in Central London at the beginning of the Group and has considerable potential to deliver a high proportion of financial year to explore opportunities in the Capital.
Londons the Groups land over the coming years.
The emerging changes to global standing makes it a unique market in the UK and strong the planning system coupled with a pro-growth agenda have worldwide demand coupled with high household growth identified opportunities to bring forward sites earlier than projections, make it an attractive location to expand the Group and anticipated.
However, pulling land through the planning system and increase its weighting in the South East.
Great Park, Rubery, West Midlands Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 22 Focus on London Our new Divisional operation in London which opened in August 2010, has firmly established itself in offices in Chancery Lane in the heart of London and has acquired 235 plots on three sites, with a development value of c. 150m.
September will see the official launch of the showhome on our first development at Ealing and a start on site at Kingston.
Detailed planning and design work is progressing in respect of our Connaught Place development.
In addition, two sites have been exchanged conditionally for 107 plots with a development value of 50m with completion due in the coming year.
The Walpole Collection, Ealing, London The new team was quickly established and consists of specialists Harrow also manage the Groups remaining commercial interests with extensive knowledge of developing in London balanced with a and have overseen the disposal of 0.7m of commercial property number of existing managers transferred from within the Group.
The business acquired or contracted 342 high value plots across five sites over the course of the year.
People To meet the planned growth of the business we have created many The first site for six large houses at Ealing is well underway and we new jobs and increased our directly employed workforce by over expect to be commencing construction later this calendar year on a 100 to 949.
Staff turnover levels remain low at 7.6%, a small large riverside site in Kingston.
We also have planning applications increase on the previous year reflecting greater mobility in the job running on sites at Marble Arch and Wapping where we are working market.
Redrow has a committed and skilled workforce and we are Development in London is by its very nature complex and although determined to provide them with opportunities to develop their the team have made an excellent start and has now relocated to larger offices, the Division is not expected to make a significant contribution to the Groups profits until 2013 14.
Harrow Following its acquisition last year, Harrow has made good progress on managing the remediation works at Hauxton, near Cambridge and now anticipate land being released for development in 2012.
Planning has been progressed on a number of other schemes and they were notably successful in securing a resolution to grant planning at South Cerney, a site acquired in the Cotswolds in the previous year.
During the year Harrow acquired one site with the development potential for 200 residential units and entered into a joint venture for the promotion and development of smaller brownfield sites in the south of England.
Kirks Paddock, Grimsby About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 23 % 13 careers.
We increased our training days by over 70% in the year to Apprentices have increased to 2,267 days.
We also recruited 50 apprentices and have a programme to encourage young people into the building trade.
% 13 of site employees We have reinstated our Graduate programme with an intake of 6 following the recruitment of 50 joining us in September.
We have also recruited 7 placement new apprentices in the year, students for 12 months replacing the 5 from last year who are returning to university to complete their studies.
one of the highest percentages in the housebuilding industry.
John Tutte Group Managing Director 7 September 2011 Investing in the future of housebuilding During the last 12 months Redrow has recruited 50 new apprentices across the country.
This brings the number of apprentices employed at June 2011 to 59, some 13% of site employees.
The Redrow apprenticeship programme combines practical on site work experience with a National Vocational Qualification Daniel Harris, year 2 Apprentice of the Year NVQ.
Apprentices are placed to work alongside experienced and trusted subcontractors from whom they can learn the skills required for their chosen trade whilst working on Redrow developments.
Redrow holds Apprentice of the Year awards to recognise the achievements of its apprentices.
This year's winners were Lorrie Veasey and Daniel Harris.
Lorrie Veasey, year 1 Apprentice of the Year pictured with Ryan Price who received a highly commended award
