2 20 0 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report operating review On an organic basis, which excludes the impact of disposals and group results currency translation, sales grew 4%, mainly due to the strong performance in Beverage Cans.
Organic underlying operating profit increased 8%.
In 2011, Rexam as a Group delivered a statutory results strong performance.
Sales overall increased On a statutory basis, which includes the effect of currency translation and exceptional and other items, profit before tax from 2% to 4,734m in line with our GDP goal continuing operations was431m 2010: 338m.
Exceptional as volume growth in Beverage Cans offset and other items totalled 19mbefore tax comprising restructuring, amortisation of certain acquired intangible assets and fair value amixed performance in Plastic Packaging.
Total profit for the financial period, which includes discontinued operations, was 376m Group underlying operating profit rose 7% 2010: 124m and total basicearnings per share was 43.1p to 549m mainly due to improved volumes 2010:14.2p.
The financial review on pages 26 and 27 contains areconciliation between statutory and underlying results.
in standard cans in Europe and in specialty cans in all our regions, supported by our beverage cans continued focus on cost reduction and 2011 2010 efficiencies.
Underlying profit before tax Sales 3,786m 3,677m increased 15% to 450m chiefly due to Underlying operating profit 447m 394m Return on sales 11.8% 10.7% theimprovement inoperating profit and Return on net assets 31.6% 27.6% alsoto a lower total underlying net finance Beverage Cans is a high speed, high precision manufacturing cost.
Underlying earnings per share rose business.
Excellence in manufacturing and engineering, alongwithinnovation, quality and customer service, are key 15% to 36.1p.
todelivering value to our customers.
Rexam Beverage Cans is aglobal business centred on three main regions: Europe, North America and South America.
It also has operations in Russia, theMiddle East, India, Chinaand Central America.
This mix gives us a healthyexposure to both developed and emerging markets.
Our businesses collaborate on a global basis in areas such as supply chain, innovation, engineering, research and development and marketing intelligence.
In all, Beverage Cans accounted for 81% of Rexams underlying operating profit from continuing operations 2010: 77%.
In 2011, Beverage Cans outperformed our expectations.
Organic sales, which adjusts for the impact of currency translation, were up 4% including the expected market share loss in North America.
Excluding Andr Balbi Cervio group director, Tomas Sjlin group director, standard cans in North America, our beverage cans volumes grew beverage can Americas beverage can Europe & Asia close to 5% bolstered by good volume growth in Europe and in specialty cans across all regions.
Excluding the cost of aluminium passed through to customers, organic sales growth was 1%.
Organic underlying operating profit was better than expected, improving by 15% to 447m driven predominantly by volume growth but also good pricing and an excellent performance on cost savings and efficiencies mainly related to downgauging and lightweighting.
Our underlying operating profit margin improved to 11.8% 2010: 10.7%.
In 2012, our cost saving efforts will be very much in focus as we Malcolm Harrison group director, face the specific challenge of absorbing an additional 20m of plastic packaging metal conversion costs in our European beverage can business, increases in energy and freight charges as well as start up costs.
21 beverage can Europe & Asia The European can market currently comprises some 57bn cans.
Itisour largest beverage can market and we are the leading can investing in growth maker with a more than 40% share.
In 2011, the market grew 5% as cans continued to gain share of the beverage packaging mix Finland has enjoyed a steady transition from refillable supported by a continued shift towards home consumption where glass bottles to cans in recent years, as has the beverage cans are the single serve package of choice.
Our own Scandinavian and Baltic region in general.
The cans volumes increased 6% following good growth in standard and share of the beer pack mix in Finland has risen to more specialty cans and growth in Russia.
Specialty cans continued than 60%, assisted by favourable legislation, but still togrow across Europe in general and now represent almost 30% lags behind Sweden at 82%.
We currently serve this ofall cans sold.
Our own specialty volumes increased 10% driven 1.2bn can market from our plants in Sweden by the continued success of energy drinks in Europe and those filled andDenmark.
With our can making network close to full utilisation, A strong first half in Russia was followed, as expected, by a slower additional capacity is required in order to manage second half but, for the year as a whole, our volumes were up plant efficiency across Europe so that we can capture 6%in line with our expectations.
Returns on our Russian business future growth in the market.
Long distance imports are including the acquisition of Rostar in 2008 remain consistently not viable in the long run.
well above our regional weighted average cost of capital.
During 2011 we announced that we would be investing Theintroduction of Europes first 75cl can was another milestone in a new two line can making plant in Finland for 68m.
forRexam in the Russian market.
Can size is often a key element It is planned to open at the start of 2013.
The majority inour customers marketing strategies and they now have an even of our customers in Finland and the Baltic countries broader range from which to select.
Whilst we will be disciplined arecontracted to 2015. interms of capital expenditure given the focus on returns, we arecurrently evaluating options to invest in Eastern Russia to meet growing demand and the need to reduce the cost ofshipping products such as SLEEK cans which are growing inpopularity.
Our can plant network across Western Europe ran at 95% utilisation during the year and given that we expect the market to continue to grow, we announced the construction of a new two line can making plant in Finland for 68m to open at the start of 2013.
We are making further investments in India, installing a high speed aluminium beverage can manufacturing line at the current site in Taloja close to Mumbai.
The new line will represent a capital investment of c30m over two years.
It will initially produce 33cl, TM 50cl and SLEEK cans and increase capacity from under 400m cans to c950m per year.
Production start up is planned for the fourth quarter of 2012.
At the start of 2012, a decision was taken to invest in a fourth production line at our can making plant in Ludesch, Austria to support the growth of the energy drinks market.
The investment ofsome 20m will increase our specialty can capacity by around 0.7bn cans per year.
Start up is planned for the third quarter of2013.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 22 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report operating review beverage can North America North America remains the largest single can market in the world at around 95bn cans and we are the second largest can maker metal efficiency matters with a c 20% share.
In 2011, our overall volumes declined 14% impacted by the contract losses announced last year.
As previously Improving resource efficiency in our operations is at the core ofour manufacturing processes, not least because of the stated, we have signed contracts to recover most of the volume costbenefit it brings to us and the packaging supply chain.
lossby 2013, which will help improve asset utilisation.
Inbeverage can production, approximately 90% of our raw Encouragingly, specialty cans, which nowaccount forsome 23% material cost ismetal.
Metal efficiency is therefore a key area of our overall volume, grew 16% driven mainly by increased ofpriority throughout our can business and we are focused on consumption ofenergy drinks, beer and iced teas as wellas new the twin processes of lightweighting and downgauging.
Standard cans were down 20% of which 15% related to the loss of contracts and the remaining 5% to The gauge of the metal determines the thickness of the dome at the base of the can.
Downgauging reducing the thickness of weakness in the US soft drinks market.
the metal used means that more cans can be produced from Overall profit in the business, which at the start of the year we the same amount of metal, whether it is aluminium or steel.
expected to be comparable tothat in 2010, was significantly Reducing the thickness of the can wall is called lightweighting.
The faster than expected growth in specialty cans and the Using finite element analysis we can evaluate any proposed relentless pursuit of efficiencies and cost reduction across our refinements to can design before we set up a line.
Thishas entireproduct and manufacturing platform, combined with the reduced the risk and the associated cost of tooling development.
improvement in margins on retained as well as newly secured volumes, helped drive this strong performance.
Another significant advance resulting from the metal efficiency programme in Europe is the adoption of the 'non round cut Our good cash conversion continued andwe maintained the strong edge'.
A complex modification to the shape of the blanks return on net assets that characterises this part of the business.
pressed from the coil means less metal is wasted and less excessis trimmed from the top of the can body.
beverage can South America South America is a c 25bn beverage can market dominated by Brazil.
Rexam isthe leading can maker in the region.
Following a very strong performance in 2010 when the main market, Brazil, grew 18%, ourvolumes in 2011 were flat as the beverage can market in Brazilfaced a number of challenges.
These included a slowdown in Brazilian GDP growth from 7% to 3% pa, price increases by our customers and particularly unfavourable winter weather conditions.
Volumes were also affected by the direct import of cans by our customers.
In addition, we lost some volume share as customers reallocated their volume requirements closer to their filling locations to optimise freight costs as new capacity came on line.
Growth in Rexams specialty cans remained strong at 16% drivenprimarily by beer producers seeking new formats for their products.
Specialty cans now account for 21% of our sales.
23 Rexam has around 60% of the Brazilian beverage can market and plastic packaging we are conscious that growth will not always be linear in emerging markets.
Consistent with our disciplined approach to capital 2011 2010 expenditure, our planned investment in the new can making plant Sales 948m 942m in Belm initially announced in April 2011 will be timed tomatch customer volume expectations, and is now planned to open in the Underlying operating profit 102m 119m second half of 2012.
As stated last year, we have a long term Return on sales 10.8% 12.6% contract with our largest customer in Brazil which underpins the Return on net assets 23.3% 29.1% returns on existing and future investments in theregion.
Our Plastic Packaging business consists of Healthcare and Personal We remain confident of the medium and long term prospects for Care whichincludes High Barrier food containers.
It produces the Brazilian market.
In the short term, disposable incomes are set standardand customised rigid plastic packaging solutions for to rise in 2012 following legislation on increasing minimum wage avariety of end markets including pharmaceutical and healthcare levels and, with customers already preparing for events such applications, cosmetics, toiletries, household care and food.
astheFIFA Confederations Cup in 2013, the FIFA World Cup in Manyof our products are the leading choice in their markets for 2014and the Olympic Games in 2016, we expect to see further customers worldwide.
In 2011, Plastic Packaging accounted for economic growth.
19% of Rexams underlying operating profit from continuing operations 2010: 23%.
Plastic Packaging has a wide variety of products at varying stages of maturity.
Our priority is to improve consistently the returns from this portfolio of businesses.
Thekeys to success are innovation in markets where there are relatively short life cycles, for example, cosmetics, and the ability toremain entrepreneurial while leveraging a global network of production and technical capabilities.
Operational excellence, including the use of leading edge technology, and the understanding of end market trends arealso essential to maintain stature in these markets.
In 2011, trading in Plastic Packaging was mixed.
Organic sales grew 2% but, excluding resin pass through, sales were flat.
Underlying operating profit was 13% down on an organic basis.
There were good efficiencies from increased process automation and lower resin usage from lightweighting and savings from reduced working hours and the elimination of shared costs following the sale of Closures.
These were, however, not sufficient to offset the effects of reduced pricing and increased costs and global recognition of excellence theimpact of lower volumes in Personal Care in North America, At the start of 2012, our beverage can plant in guas Claras, particularly in Home and Personal Care, and overall weaker sales Brazil, was awarded The Shingo Prize acknowledged as the in the Healthcare business.
highest global recognition for operational excellence.
Two other Rexam plants in Brazil, Recife beverage can ends and Jundia personal care products were awarded the Shingo Silver medal and Bronze medal respectively.
Improving operational efficiency is at the core of ourmanufacturing processes.
Plants are regularly assessed under Rexams own audit programme but, inthe quest for continuous improvement, Rexam wanted to benchmark its performance against the bestin the world.
guas Claras was recognised as outstanding in all areas ofoperation, demonstrating a culture where principles of operational excellence are deeply embedded into the thinking and behaviour of all leaders, managers and employees.
Withonly a small number of organisations awarded TheShingoPrize each year, Rexam now joins an elite group.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 24 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report operating review healthcare personal care With over 3,000 employees and 14 factories across three continents, In Personal Care, overall trading was disappointing despite Rexam Healthcare is the global leader in rigid plastic packaging pockets of good performance.
High Barrier Food volumes were and devices for healthcare applications.
It is a well invested upstrongly due to share gains but results in the rest of Personal business with an experienced management team.
It designs, Care varied significantly by region.
In Europe volumes were flat.
develops and manufactures innovative packaging, including We saw some growth in dispensing systems for fragrances and containers and healthcare closures, drug delivery devices, makeup and some weakness in foam pumps.
In North America, metering pumps and valves and medical components.
Its core theconsumer remained cautious which led to lower volumes, expertise lies in injection moulding and blow moulding particularly in Home and Personal Care.
In emerging markets, technologies and high speed automated assembly in compliance good growth in Brazil was more than offset by weakness of make with Good Manufacturing Practice to meet the quality, safety and up in Asia due to high input costs and competitive pricing.
It also has broad regulatory As stated on page 13 we have started the process to actively knowledge to provide value added support to customers.
market the Personal Care business for divestment.
In 2011, Healthcare volumes sales excluding pass through of resin cost were flat.
There was weak demand in North America and our overall performance reflects our strategy to focus on price and going forward increase returns.
InPharmaceutical Packaging, strong growth in insulin pens We are targeting revenue growth slightly above GDP, by which wasoffset by weakness in inhalers following a quiet flu season.
wemean the aggregate GDP of the major markets inwhich we InPrescription, there were some pricing benefits, despite increased operate, primarily in North and South America and Europe.
In competitiveness, but these were offset by lower volumes, again Europe, pack mix changes and increased at home consumption dueto the absence of major flu outbreaks.
Primary Packaging are driving faster than GDP growth.
In North America, standard hadlower volumes due to pricing pressures.
cans are flatto marginally declining but specialty cans continue togrow: overall, however, the US is a gently declining market One of the main devices we manufacture for drug delivery is in regardless ofGDP.
Finally in South America and other emerging theprocess of coming off patent and this will impact the results of markets, weconsistently see faster than GDP growth in beverage the Healthcare business in 2012.
This is part of the normal cycle cans due to increased can penetration as the pack mix changes within the pharmaceutical industry which is why we continue to away from returnable glass.
develop a strong product pipeline to fuelfuture growth.
We expect operating profit to grow faster than sales as increased Looking ahead, we expect that there will be more opportunities to volumes and better utilisation provide good drop through and, develop or codevelop solutions with pharmaceutical companies as overtime, efficiencies and pricing offset cost inflation.
they focus increasingly on their core business.
We have a range of new products including insulin pens and the next generation Rexam is a highly cash generative company.
Over the last two ofsophisticated drug delivery devices to replace those coming years, we have succeeded in strengthening the balance sheet offpatent.
We will maintain anappropriate financial position but will shift our focus to acombination of reinvestment in the business and cash returns toshareholders.
safensound In 2011, Rexam Healthcare received 510 k approval from the Food and Drug Administration FDA for SafenSound, apassive safety device for prefilled syringes.
The approval is the crowning achievement of significant investment and efforts in terms of design by the Rexam teams.
Theaimof the project was to design a safety device that meets the current regulations in North America and in Europe.
Theseregulations are aimed at protecting workers in the health sector from needle injuries and contamination from blood borne pathogens.
The fully passive SafenSound device provides effective protection against the risks of being pricked by a soiled needle, thanks to the protective sheath which activates automatically once the medicine has been administered.
This FDA approval shows Rexams commitment to innovation, safety and quality.
25 balancing returns and growth Sales growth GDP Pack mix changes in Europe Growth in specialty cans in North America Growth in emerging markets Investment Operating pro t growth GDP Organic investment Maximise long c 1.01.5 times efficiencies and term shareholder depreciation pricing offset cost value aiming to underpins ination over time reach 15% ROCE GDP growth Good drop through by 2013 Bolt on acquisitions from increased volume and utilisation Cash generation Strong balance sheet Investment grade credit rating Surplus cash Returned to shareholders Dividend Dividend cover 2.02.5 times It is important to reinvest in the business so as to deliver our growth Net debt has reduced from 1.8bn at the end of 2009 to 1.3bn target on a sustainable basis.
We recognise the need for discipline atthe end of 2011 aided by good profits and the proceeds from and will invest only in projects with good growth and return Closures, but also largely through our own management profiles.
We aim to keep investment in the range of 1.01.5 times ofworking capital and capital discipline.
In 2012 there are several large projects happening at the same time and we will be at the high end of the range this year.
We will be similarly disciplined with regard to any bolt 2012 outlook onacquisitions to strengthen our market positions or increase ourcapabilities.
In closing, we are delighted with the continued progress of the In terms of cash returns to shareholders, our dividend policy is to business in 2011.
Our strong profit growth was achieved by a have a dividend cover in the range of 2.02.5 times underlying better than expected performance in our Beverage Cans business, earnings.
With a strengthened balance sheet and the good 2011 primarily in Europe, and continued focus on cost management.
trading performance, we are now in the range.
Surplus cash Looking ahead, we remain cautious about the global economy whichis not reinvested in the business over time will be returned and, as indicated, we face certain cost challenges in 2012 together toshareholders.
with the impact of a key Healthcare product coming off patent.
The Since 2009 we have generated close to 550m of free cash volume environment for Beverage Cans remains robust, although flow, reduced costs by more than 120m and improved return we do not anticipate any turnaround in the performance of Plastic oncapital employed from 9.5% to 13.7%.
Packaging in the near term.
Overall, we expect 2012 to be another year of progress as we continue to focus on cash, costs and return on capital employed.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
