GROUP IFC - 06 BUSINESS REVIEW 07 - 34 OPERATIONAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE 35 - 52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 - 100 INFORMATION 101 - 103 Our strategy for growth and value creation for our shareholders continues to deliver positive results.
The momentum we experienced in 2010 continued into 2011, with each division achieving record results.
The focus on developing our international sales channels, expanding our product portfolio and carefully managing our cost base provides a strong platform for further growth.
We are a global company with 19 domestic growth in countries such as manufacturing sites, 104 offices, direct Australia, China and India.
Overall, Europe, employees in 31 countries, and sales Asia and the Americas all posted results channels in 89 countries.
Our customers higher than the prior year.
Revenue was demand first-class after-sales support and strong at 447.8m, 17.7% up on the prior our dedicated teams around the world are year.
Adjusted profit before tax margin equipped to provide the local support they was 26.0%, fractionally below the 26.2% require.
achieved last year, but with the impact of acquisitions and currency reversed the This year we established a new division, adjusted margin was 26.3%.
Rotork Instruments, to strengthen our presence in the wider flow control market.
The creation of a new division reflects the The acquisition of Fairchild Industrial wider market ambitions of the Group in flow Products Company Fairchild is the first control, an area identified by the Board step in developing another Rotork division during our strategy discussions as having Peter France Chief Executive with market leading products.
The acquisition of Fairchild provides a strong foundation Rotork has a strong brand identity, on which Rotork Instruments can build international presence and technical a product portfolio and access new endcapabilities that support our objective of markets as well as strengthening our providing our customers with high quality, presence in existing markets.
Fairchild will technically advanced, innovative products also continue as a supplier to other parts and services.
of the Group and we will look to capitalise on this opportunity.
HIGHLIGHTS I am pleased to report another successful In addition to Fairchild, we completed a year.
Customer orders were weighted further five acquisitions in the year: towards the end of 2011, and with Rotork Servo Controles fide Mexico S. A. the receipt of our largest ever order in fide C. V. RSCM and Valco Valves & December, a 8.9m pipeline project in Automation AS, VVA, based in Mexico Mexico, the fourth quarter was particularly and Norway respectively, strengthened strong.
Overall, order intake for the year our geographic coverage with their strong was 461.8m, up 20.9% compared sales and service organisations.
Removing the contribution these new sales offices will focus mainly from acquisitions and a small currency on Rotork Controls and Rotork Fluid headwind, order intake was 18.1% ahead Systems products: of the prior year.
Controls International Inc K-Tork a company based in the USA and Centork Rotork offices benefit from both local Valve Control S. L. Centork in Spain, business and international projects where provides product as well as sales the orders are often placed through channels to Rotork Fluid System and valvemakers in their area.
This means Rotork Controls respectively: that our offices in mature markets can Prokits Limited Prokits, a UK based still experience significant growth due to valve adaption company, will be export activity.
This was evident during the integrated into the Rotork Gears year with strong export-led performances business.
from countries such as the UK, USA, Korea and Italy.
There was also strong ROTORK P. L. C. 07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
