30 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review Asia Continued expansion In Asia lager volumes grew 10% on an organic basis, with strong growth in China, supported by India and Vietnam.
EBITA increased 31% 33% on an organic, constant currency basis, with all of the regions operations showing improvement and particularly pleasing growth in India and China.
EBITA margin increased by 50 bps.
In China lager volumes grew by 11% 10% on an organic basis, in amarket which grew at an estimated 6%.
The north-east and central regions contributed the majority of the increase in volume asthey continued to grow strongly, but results in the south-east werealsogood.
Revenue per hectolitre increased by 4% both on a reported and an organic, constant currency basis.
CR Snow continued to grow its presence in the premium segment through brand extensions to Snow, including Draft and Brave the World.
In recent months CR Snow has increased its average selling prices in order to cover higher costs.
In addition, EBITA has been adversely affected by changes to consumption tax legislation for foreign invested enterprises in China with effect from 1 December 2010.
Ari Mervis Managing Director, SABMiller Asia CR Snow further increased its sales and marketing activities to grow market share, with good increases in share achieved in Jiangsu, Shanghai, Shanxi, Zhejiang, Inner Mongolia, Heilongjiang, Liaoning, and Guizhou.
Aggressive competition in the lower segments of the market led to share loss in Sichuan and Tianjin, although in Sichuan this has been stemmed in more recent months.
Financial summary 2011 2010 % CR Snow continues to expand its footprint with capacity of six million Group revenue including share hectolitres added in the year.
This included the acquisition of three ofassociates and joint ventures US$m 2,026 1,741 16 breweries in Heilongjiang, Jiangsu and Henan and two newly built EBITA US$m 92 71 31 breweries in Shandong and Shanxi.
In addition, a number of projects EBITA margin % 4.6 4.1 were initiated during the year to further increase capacity.
Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 51,270 46,279 11 India delivered volume growth of 10% and a substantial improvement Lager organic 50,848 46,279 10 in EBITA.
In all of the key states Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Pondicherry, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh we increased volumes, although in Andhra Pradesh these were constrained from July 2010 with regulatory issues limiting our Strategic focus areas market share in the state.
Increased revenue per hectolitre, favourable Further build market leadership in China and enhance profitability mix and cost control and the introduction of embossed proprietary Continue to drive Snow, the largest beer brand in China, with bottles in key states, further enhanced results.
additional premium variants to increase revenue Pursue market liberalisation in India and focus investment on Volumes in Vietnam increased over the prior year although both growth and profitability in selected states domestic and export performance has been more subdued in the Develop our operations in Vietnam and Australia as well as our latter part of the year.
Volume performance in our joint venture in broader regional presence Australia was soft with increased competition in the premium segment, and the market suffered from particularly poor weather and the impacts of flooding in the second half of the year.
The commissioning of a new brewery in June 2010 has enabled improved availability of draught offerings in the on-premise channel.
EBITA improved as a result of favourable mix, some pricing benefits and lower costs from local production.
indd 30 07 06 2011 00:26 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 31 Key local brands Bluetongue, Fosters, Haywards 5000, Knock Out, Royal Challenge, Snow Brave the World, Snow Brushes, Snow Draft, Snow Opera, Snow Windows, Zorok For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer India trials PET bottles Our business in India has been exploring the advantages of beer bottles made from the plastic, PET polyethylene terephthalate.
Light, non-breakable and resealable, PETpacks offer opportunities to improve margins, create new beer-drinking occasions and increase consumption peroccasion.
In an early test in February 2010, the Haywards 5000 brand was introduced in PET bottles in ten towns in Maharashtra.
The phased launch was accompanied by concerted local campaigns involving print, radio, outdoor and point-of-sale advertising, all highlighting the portability and convenience of the PET pack and its advantages in home consumption.
Consumer demand was strong and most outletsneeded repeat deliveries within two weeks of the launch.
A further trial of the PET bottle involved the Knock Out brand this time directed at group consumption in small-town bars and restaurants the biggest single beer-drinking occasion by volume and highlighting the packs suitability for sharing.
Early indications from consumers and customers are extremely positive and the business has begun to roll this packaging format out across Maharashtra and is preparing to introduce further brands in thisformat.
