28 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review Africa Investments delivering growth Africa delivered a strong full year performance with lager volume 1 growth of 13% including Zimbabwe, and 9% excluding Zimbabwe, onan organic basis.
This performance is largely attributable to greater focus on route to market activities, the improved and differentiated brand portfolios as well as the continued economic growth across the region.
Regional premium brands maintained robust growth, with Castle Lager up by 20%, excluding the incremental Zimbabwe volumes.
Local premium volumes continued to grow very strongly, while in the affordable segment we expanded our geographic footprint and our Eagle brand performed well.
Soft drinks volumes grew 8% organically 4% excluding Zimbabwe and 18% on a reported basis as we cycled the acquisitions of the prior year.
The soft drinks category is performing well with solid growth in Uganda, Ghana, Nigeria, Zambia and particularly Zimbabwe.
Super Maheu continues to grow with expansion into new markets.
Traditional beer pilot plants were established in a number of new territories and have performed to expectation, with full production to follow.
Local farming initiatives are gaining momentum with Zambia now self-sufficient in barley.
Ourinvestments in capacity in the last two years are building impetus and creating profitable growth opportunities in new geographies.
Mark Bowman Managing Director, SABMiller Africa Despite increased investment in sales and marketing EBITA grew by 15% 20% on an organic, constant currency basis, driven by volume growth and price increases.
The start up operations in Ethiopia, Southern Sudan and Nigeria performed to expectation.
EBITA margin for the full year declined by 90 bps to 19.9%, impacted by weaker local currencies relative to the US dollar which affected raw material Financial summary 2011 2010 % input costs and the increased cost base due to the expansion projects commissioned in the prior year.
However EBITA margin improved in Group revenue including share the second half, gaining 30 bps over the same period in the prior year.
ofassociates US$m 3,254 2,716 20 1 EBITA US$m 647 565 15 In Uganda lager volumes grew by 20% supported by improved EBITA margin % 19.9 20.8 distribution, retail execution and a strong brand portfolio that was able Sales volumes hl 000 to benefit from the prior year capacity expansion.
Eagle continues to Lager 15,288 13,476 13 record exceptional growth in the affordable segment while Nile Gold, Lager organic 15,223 13,476 13 and Castle Lite, which was launched earlier this year, are progressing well in the premium segment.
Soft drinks 12,373 10,442 18 Soft drinks organic 11,314 10,442 8 Lager volumes in Tanzania grew by 5% for the full year, having been Other alcoholic beverages 5,080 3,922 30 level at the half year.
Prior year volumes included licensed brand 1 production for East African Breweries Limited EABL if the impact In 2011 before net exceptional charges of US$4 million being business capability programme costs 2010: US$3 million.
of these volumes is excluded, our own lager brands grew 19% in the year, with the total beverage portfolio up 23%.
This growth is directly attributable to increased brand and market focus, with Castle Lager, Castle Lite and Ndovu Special Malt outperforming in the Strategic focus areas premium sector and Kilimanjaro and Safari lager performing well in Spur growth in beer and soft drinks with expanded brand themainstream sector following recent brand renovation programmes.
portfolios across a wider price range The far south region grew strongly following the commissioning of Step up investment in, and execution of, brand marketing theMbeya brewery which has also saved distribution costs.
Further develop sales and distribution to enhance our outlet presence and extend our geographic coverage Lager volume growth of 7% was achieved in Mozambique as a result Mitigate high imported input costs through innovation and local of improved availability of product and focused sales and distribution supply chains in the north enabled by the opening of the Nampula brewery at the end of the prior year.
The main brand contributors were Laurentina Preta, a local premium brand, with growth of 46% and Manica, a mainstream brand, with volume growth of 21%.
Although volumes of the 2M brand declined for the year, they grew in the final quarter with a revitalised marketing campaign and the launch of a new bottle.
indd 28 07 06 2011 00:25 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 29 Key local brands 2M, Chibuku, Club Premium Lager, Club Pilsener, Eagle, Kilimanjaro, Laurentina, Lion Lager, Maluti, Manica, Mosi, Ngola, Nile Special, Safari, Sibebe, St Louis, White Bull, Ambo, Rwenzori, Voltic For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer In Zambia lager volume growth for the year was 28% driven by more effective distribution, better availability of product following the brewery upgrade at Ndola and the continued consumer price benefi t of the excise reduction in March 2010.
Castle Lager and Mosi have both shown strong growth in the year.
Traditional beer grew by 11% asa result of improved distribution channels and availability.
In Angola soft drinks ended the year in line with the prior year despite a slowdown in the economy which resulted in lower disposable income and consumer demand.
Lager volumes grew 26% following the successful commissioning of the new brewery in Luanda.
1 Delta Corporation, our associate in Zimbabwe, is slowly returning to normality with lager volumes approaching their previous highs.
During the year capital investments to improve the standard of the breweries in Zimbabwe were undertaken, including a new lager packaging line inBulawayo which was commissioned in the latter part of the year.
Castel delivered lager volume growth of 4% with good growth in Nigeria, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Benin and Chad.
Softdrinks volumes grew by 8% year on year.
1 We have included our share of Delta, our associate in Zimbabwe, within our results effective 1 April 2010 following the effective dollarisation of the economy in 2009, the end of hyperinfl ation and the stabilisation of thelocaleconomy.
