32 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review South Africa: Beverages Execution driving growth The South African economy strengthened during the year with both GDP and retail sales returning to growth after a decline in the previous year.
However, the recovery in consumer demand has been tentative as consumers were impacted by higher food and energy prices.
Lager volumes returned to growth, at 2% - a strong performance given that the year under review had no Easter.
Our beer business intensified investment behind its core brands and further enhanced sales execution with retailers.
The increase in market-facing investment was principally funded through cost reduction.
Product and packaging innovation built on the momentum created by intensive through the line marketing campaigns.
Retail execution reach and intensity at the point of sale were significantly improved through our focus on key classes of trade.
Encouragingly, our market share stabilised over the second half of the year.
Castle Lite, South Africas largest premium beer, accelerated its growth, supported by the communication of its Extra cold characteristics and selective placement in the trade of specialised refrigeration equipment.
Mainstream brands in total returned to growth.
Castle Lager benefited Norman Adami further from its association with sport and continued to build on Chairman and Managing Director, SAB Ltd the gains it made during the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
Hansa Pilsener continued to grow steadily from its large base while Carling Black Label, South Africas best-selling beer, declined more slowly.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 3% driven by the emphasis on immediate consumption packs, a greater sophistication in channel Financial summary 2011 2010 % specific trade execution and enhanced customer service, while cost competitiveness was also strengthened.
Sparkling soft drinks growth Group revenue including share of 2% included growth in returnable glass bottles and immediate ofassociates US$m 5,598 4,777 17 consumption packs in particular.
Good growth in Powerade, coupled 1 EBITA US$m 1,067 885 21 with the successful launch of Glaceau during the year, drove growth EBITA margin % 19.1 18.5 of15% in alternative beverages.
Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 26,306 25,761 2 Group revenue grew by 17%, 8% on a constant currency basis, Soft drinks 17,574 17,044 3 assisted by the strong volume growth and price benefits in both the beer and soft drinks businesses.
Group revenue per hectolitre grew Other alcoholic beverages 1,467 1,404 5 by 14%, 5% on a constant currency basis.
Year on year beer raw 1 In 2011 before net exceptional charges of US$188 million being business material costs declined in constant currency per hectolitre terms, capability programme costs of US$39 million and charges incurred in benefiting from lower brewing input costs and favourable forward relation to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment scheme exchange contracts.
Soft drinks raw material cost increases were of US$149 million 2010: US$53 million being business capability marginally ahead of inflation.
programme costs of US$42 million and costs associated with the establishment of the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction of US$11 million.
EBITA grew by 21% 11% on a constant currency basis, benefiting from the strengthening of the rand over the year relative to the US dollar.
Full year EBITA margin of 19.1% reflected a 60 bps improvement on the prior year.
Strategic focus areas Fortify the foundation, and strengthen productivity edge Appletiser delivered solid revenue growth and a strong EBITA Engage the competitor performance.
Our associate Distell increased volumes and revenue, Ensure key brands resonate with cider and ready-to-drink growth partially offset by a decline in Shape superior routes to market wines and spirits, predominantly in the domestic market.
Although Ensure societal leadership EBITA grew, margins were adversely impacted by the negative sales mix and adverse transactional exchange rate impacts.
The offer of shares in the companys Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction attracted over 33,000 applications and was 29% oversubscribed when it closed in June 2010.
A total of 46.2million new shares in The South African Breweries Limited SAB, representing 8.45% of SABs enlarged issued share capital, have beenissued.
During the year we distributed an interim dividend of US$3 million to the participating employee and retailer shareholders, and subsequent to year end the final dividend of US$6 million has been paid, covering the second half of the year and our peak trading period.
indd 32 07 06 2011 00:26 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 33 Key local brands Carling Black Label, Castle Lager, Castle Lite, Castle Milk Stout, Hansa Pilsener, Redds, Redds Premium Dry, Appletiser, Brutal Fruit For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer Uniting South Africans behind the national brand When the FIFA World Cup came to South Africa in 2010, the South African business decided to use the opportunity to rejuvenate its 115-year-old Castle Lager brand and sharpen its brand image in the eyes of consumers.
In a nation with 11 languages and a multiplicity of cultures and political affi liations, research showed that one characteristic that unites South Africans of all backgrounds is the pride they take in their reputation for warmth and hospitality.
As sponsors of the national football team, Bafana Bafana, Castle Lager created a 12-month campaign to encapsulate these qualities in the eyes of South Africans and incoming visitors and to rally the nation behind the team.
Promoted as the countrys host beer under the rallying cry, Weregenuine hosts, lets show the world, Castle Lager has struck a chord in the national psyche and has come to be seen asrepresenting the best of South Africa.
This intense marketing activity and Castle Lagers continued association with other South African national sports teams led toasustained increase in the brands sales during the year.
