22 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review Latin America Continuing margin improvement Our Latin American business ended the year with EBITA growth of 17% 11% on an organic, constant currency basis.
Lager volumes were level with the prior year on an organic basis, following growth of 1% in the fourth quarter.
Volume performance was driven by the improving economic conditions across the region as well as our commercial efforts to overcome trade restrictions and the impact on consumer prices of higher product taxes imposed in a number of countries.
Financial performance was driven by revenue growth from selective price increases, lower raw material input costs and the continued focus on fixed cost productivity.
Marketing investment increased moderately and most of our operations have continued to achieve beer and total alcohol market share gains.
EBITA margin reflected a 210 bps increase to 25.6%.
In Colombia lager volumes declined by 6% principally due to the emergency VAT increase levied on the beer category in February 2010, however volumes returned to growth after cycling the increase.
Lager volumes were also impacted by exceptional rainfall with widespread flooding in a number of regions impacting consumer demand and our product distribution, as well as a number of Karl Lippert dry days around elections.
Our share of the total alcohol market President, SABMiller Latin America declinedfrom 66% to 62% as the aguardiente sector benefited from the impact of the VAT increase for beer.
Strategies to develop further our beer brand portfolio and to improve affordability of beer are in place, and more favourable market share trends emerged in the last quarter.
We have enhanced our brand mix by growing our upper mainstream segment, with guila Light up by over 50% and Financial summary 2011 2010 % the successful introduction of Poker Ligera, a functional light beer, and Club Colombia Roja, a local premium brand, while seeding Miller Group revenue including share Genuine Draft as a premium brand in high end outlets in a number of associates US$m 6,335 5,905 7 of major cities.
Redds, which has been attracting a wider female 1 EBITA US$m 1,620 1,386 17 following, grew by 6%.
We continued to enhance the availability of EBITA margin % 25.6 23.5 cold beer and have placed a further 19,000 fridges in the market.
Sales volumes hl 000 Oursoft drinks brand, Pony Malta, benefited from expansion of Lager 38,266 38,075 1 availability and the launch of a new small pack size, the Pony Mini.
Lager organic 38,022 38,075 Fixed costs benefited from the restructuring projects undertaken inthe prior year, including the closure of the Bogota brewery, as Soft drinks 15,809 15,895 1 wellas our ongoing cost productivity initiatives.
1 In 2011 before exceptional charges of US$106 million being business capability programme costs 2010: US$156 million being business capability Our Peru operations performed strongly on the back of robust GDP programme costs of US$97 million, restructuring and integration costs of growth of 8.8% and our ongoing brand portfolio upgrade, with lager US$14 million and impairments of US$45 million.
We have continued to grow beer market share by volume to 92% prior year 90% and achieved a higher value share.
Our brand portfolio was enhanced through the repositioning of Strategic focus areas Pilsen Callao, which grew by 18%, as an upper mainstream brand at a higher price point.
Miller Genuine Draft was launched, while our local Further enhance the beer categorys appeal across consumer premium brand Cusquea gained further outlet penetration as a new segments and occasions seasonal variant was launched selling at a higher price point.
Pilsen Increase share of alcohol market, capitalising on well Trujillo continued to provide an effective defence against competitor differentiated brand portfolios economy brands and took volume from the informal alcohol Optimise and extend distribution network and sales reach segment.
Our drive for profitable revenue growth included selective Pursue operational excellence and efficiency in our businesses, price increases during the year, as well as improved brand and optimising resources and costs pack mix.
Further capital investments were made to meet capacity requirements, given the high level of growth, while production gridefficiency was enhanced with the closure of the Trujillo plant andthe transfer of this capacity to the Motupe and Ate plants.
Ecuador achieved lager volume growth of 1% with improved product availability and increased sales coverage helping to offset government restrictions on alcohol sales, particularly a ban on Sunday alcohol trading introduced in June 2010.
We have expanded our presence in consumption occasions such as festivals and events which now represent approximately 6% of volume mix, up from less than 2% a year ago.
Premium brands performed well, led by our local premium brand Club, with volumes up 5%.
The segment now reflects 10% of 50518 TEXT pgs22-35.
indd 22 07 06 2011 00:23 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 23 Key local brands guila, guila Light, Atlas, Balboa, Barena, Club, Club Colombia, Cristal, Cusquea, Golden Light, Imperial, Pilsen, Pilsen Callao, Pilsen Trujillo, Pilsener, Poker, Salva Vida, PonyMalta For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer our mix up 100 bps and included the launch of Miller Genuine Draft In Panama total volumes increased by 2%, with lager volumes level in key cities.
The new 225ml Pilsener offering launched in January with the prior year.
Our share of the beer market declined marginally.
2010 performed well and helped enhance sales mix.
Direct order Mix improvements were encouraging, boosted in the last quarter by taking was increased by another 10% to 63% of total volumes while the introduction of Miller Lite in the premium segment.
Our portfolio distributor consolidation continued, improving productivity.
These of soft drinks grew by 3%, supported by a solid performance of Malta actions helped lift our share of the alcohol market which ended at Vigor and increases in outlet coverage.
A court ruling relating to a labour dispute pre-dating SABMillers investment in Ecuador affected trading In El Salvador domestic lager volumes were in line with the prior year for two weeks in December 2010.
The dispute is ongoing and not yet while soft drinks declined by 5%.
Volumes suffered from challenging resolved and we are contesting the claims.
economic conditions, an increase in social unrest, poor weather and two increases in beer taxes.
Soft drinks volumes were also impacted Our operations in Honduras delivered strong share gains in by our decision to cut back on non-core brands, and our share of both lager and soft drinks while strengthening margins, despite sparkling soft drinks fell from 55% to 54%.
a challenging social environment with increased violence and the highest rainfall in the last 30 years.
Lager volumes ended the year up In November 2010, we entered Argentina with the acquisition 1%, with double digit growth in the last quarter.
Growth was assisted ofCervecera Argentina S. A. Isenbeck CASA Isenbeck, a brewery by efforts to make beer more accessible to low income consumers near Buenos Aires, which has Isenbeck and Warsteiner as its with entry packs in the traditional trade and price optimisation principalbrands.
This acquisition provides an interesting low cost initiatives in the modern trade.
Our alcohol market share improved entry point into the country as well as a platform for supply into from 49% to a historical high of 50%.
Soft drinks saw a signifi cant neighbouring countries.
positive trend in the second half of the year, with our share of sparkling soft drinks increasing to 58%, up from 56% in the prior year.
However volumes remained below the prior year due to price increases taken to recover an excise tax increase.
Two new categories of soft drinks were also introduced with the launch of the Jugos Del Valle juice brand and Nestea.
