26 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review North America Focus on brand execution The North America segment includes the groups 58% share in MillerCoors and 100% of Miller Brewing International.
In a market which remained challenging through the year, robust revenue management and strong cost management, including MillerCoors continued delivery of committed synergies and cost savings, drove total North America EBITA up 20%.
MillerCoors For the year ended 31 March 2011 MillerCoors US domestic volumeSTRs were down 3%, as the US beer market remained under pressure from high levels of unemployment amid a slow economic recovery.
Domestic STWs also fell by 3%, in line with the STRs.
Revenue growth was driven by pricing and favourable brand mix fromuptrading and product innovation.
These factors more than offsetthe impact on EBITA of the decline in volumes.
Premium light brand volumes were down low single digits, with growth in Coors Light and an improving performance for Miller Lite.
MillerCoors Tenth and Blake craft and import brand portfolio saw continued double digit growth driven by Blue Moon and Leinenkugels Tom Long including their associated seasonal craft brand extensions as well as Chief Executive Officer, MillerCoors Peroni Nastro Azzurro.
The below premium segment declined in mid single digits, with both Keystone and Miller High Life volumes down asconsumers began to trade up to other categories.
MillerCoors revenue per hectolitre grew by 2% as a result of disciplined revenue management with selected price increases, Financial summary 2011 2010 % including the narrowing of the price gaps between the below premium and premium brands, which resulted in consumers trading up and Group revenue including share miximproving.
ofjoint ventures US$m 5,223 5,228 1 EBITA US$m 741 619 20 Cost of goods sold per hectolitre were marginally higher despite EBITA margin % 14.2 11.8 theongoing benefit of synergies and cost savings, due to higher Sales volumes hl 000 freight and carrier rates and the increased product costs of more Lager excluding contract brewing 42,336 43,472 3 premium brands.
MillerCoors volumes Marketing, general and administrative costs decreased mainly due Lager excluding contract brewing 40,949 42,100 3 tosynergy realisation and as a result of other cost savings initiatives.
Sales to retailers STRs 40,757 41,865 3 Contract brewing 4,458 4,558 2 In the full year MillerCoors delivered an incremental US$202 million 1 of synergy savings, mainly by marketing and media savings, brewing In 2011 before exceptional charges of US$5 million being the groups share of MillerCoors integration and restructuring costs 2010: US$18 million and packaging material cost reductions, and lower distribution costs.
being the groups share of MillerCoors integration and restructuring costs of Other cost savings totalled US$73 million and came mainly from a US$14 million and the groups share of the unwind of the fair value inventory number of other supply chain initiatives.
Total annualised synergies and other cost savings of US$684 million have been realised since the inception of the joint venture on 1 July Strategic focus areas 2008.
This consists of synergies of US$528 million and other cost savings of US$156 million.
MillerCoors achieved the original three Win in mainstream light with complementary positioning of year US$500 million synergy target six months earlier than expected, CoorsLight, Miller Lite and MGD 64 and remains on track to achieve US$750 million in total annualised Through Tenth and Blake Brewing Company extend and grow synergies and other cost savings by the end of the calendar MillerCoors broad import and craft portfolio year2012.
Create value through strong revenue management Create leading capabilities and superior growth in retail chainsales Deliver US$750 million synergy and cost efficiencies 50518 TEXT pgs22-35.
indd 26 07 06 2011 00:25 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 27 Key local brands Blue Moon, Coors Banquet, Coors Light, Icehouse, Keystone Light, Killians, Leinenkugels, MGD64, Mickeys, Miller Genuine Draft, Miller High Life, Miller Lite, Milwaukees Best, Olde English, Steel Reserve, Batch 19, Colorado Native For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer Riding a new wave of growth in the USA In a generally weak US beer market, consumers looking for beers with a difference are showing a strong interest in craft and speciality brands with distinct identities and local provenance.
As a result, sales of craft and imported beers have been growing ahead of the category.
With its strong portfolio of craft and imported brands names like Blue Moon, Leinenkugels, Batch 19, Colorado Native and Peroni Nastro Azzurro MillerCoors has responded to these positive trends by forming Tenth and Blake Beer Company.
Established in 2010 to focus specifi cally on the craft and import segment, the new organisation fi elds its own beer merchants with specialised knowledge of the products and the sales and category management expertise to help distributors and retailers accelerate the growth of these higher-margin brands so creating value for themselves as well as for Tenth and Blake.
Last year the companys best-selling brand, Blue Moon, increased sales volumes by 25% and sparked explosive growth in the Belgian wheat beer category now the fastest growing segment in the US beer industry.
Blue Moons growing popularity among Hispanic consumers, a group of drinkers new to craft beers, is likely to create a further wave of growth for the brand.
