24 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Operations review Europe Maintaining price discipline In Europe lager volumes declined 3% as the beer market continued to reflect generally difficult economic conditions for consumers across the region.
Widespread price weakness and competitor discounting are persistent features.
The first half was particularly challenging, following excise increases in the final quarter of the prior year which were passed on to consumers through substantial price increases.
The second half saw improved trends in nearly all markets in the region.
Reported revenue per hectolitre was level with the prior year, but on a constant currency basis it grew by 3%.
This largely reflected prior year excise-related price increases, with selective inflationary price increases and mix benefits offset by discounting.
Profitability was negatively impacted by volume declines in the first half of the year and ongoing downtrading.
However, cost efficiencies driven in part by our regional manufacturing project, which is focused on consistent world class manufacturing and reduced commodity costs, resulted in EBITA growth of 2% 4% on a constant currency basis and EBITA margin expansion of 80 bps.
Marketing expenditure was ahead of the prior year on a constant currency basis and included 2010 FIFA World Cup activations.
Reported results were impacted by the weakening Alan Clark of central and eastern European currencies against the US dollar Managing Director, SABMiller Europe compared to the prior year, although this predominantly occurred inthe first half of the year.
In Poland lager volumes were down 4% as the beer market continued to suffer with a particularly challenging first half affected by widespread flooding and alcohol sales restrictions during a nine day national Financial summary 2011 2010 % mourning period following the death of the president.
Macro economic conditions and consequently consumer confidence improved through Group revenue including share the year, although the beer market has been affected by a recent shift ofassociates US$m 5,394 5,577 3 in consumer spending patterns towards durable white goods with lower 1 EBITA US$m 887 872 2 growth in the food and beverage sectors.
Competitor activity focused EBITA margin % 16.4 15.6 on price reductions and discounting has led to downtrading and growth Sales volumes hl 000 in the economy segment.
To defend against these trends we have Lager 44,193 45,513 3 driven growth of the economy brand Wojak which has doubled volumes during the year.
Other major brands, including Tyskie, have lost share, 1 In 2011 before exceptional charges of US$261 million being impairments but Lech has held its position well in a declining premium segment.
of US$98 million, integration and restructuring costs of US$52 million and Zubr performed particularly well in the fourth quarter responding to business capability programme costs of US$111 million 2010: US$202 strong promotional support which helped the second half volume trend.
million being US$64 million of integration and restructuring costs and US$138 million of business capability programme costs.
Despite downtrading in the market, revenue per hectolitre was broadly in line with the prior year in constant currency terms, although reported EBITA declined reflecting the reduced volumes.
Strategic focus areas In the Czech Republic lager volumes declined by 6% as the Drive superior organic revenue growth and margin expansion market continued to be impacted by weakness in the on-premise Drive our full brand portfolios in growth segments in key markets channel, downtrading and the effect of the January 2010 excise through innovative 360 degree marketing programmes increase.
Consumer confidence has been severely impacted by high Continue to innovate in product, packaging and dispense unemployment, low real wage growth and higher taxation, resulting in systems a double digit volume decline in the on-premise channel.
Our premium Design for scale, cost advantage and focus brands outperformed the market.
Despite its on-premise channel bias Pilsner Urquell performed well, helped by strong brand equity and expanded tank beer distribution.
Our premium variant Kozel 11 also continued to grow with increased distribution in the on-premise channel.
Our mainstream brand, Gambrinus, continues to be under pressure partly due to its significant exposure to the on-premise channel, although encouraging results have been seen in the second half following significant brand investment.
The off-premise channel has declined at a lower rate than the on-premise helped by an expanding convenience sub-segment and we have gained share in this channel by successfully refocusing our can and convenience offerings at mainstream and economy price points.
As a result of these activities, volume trends have improved and in the fourth quarter volumes rose 2%.
Revenue per hectolitre fell by 2% up 1% at constant currency, andreported EBITA declined mainly due to reduced volumes.
indd 24 07 06 2011 00:24 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 25 Key local brands Arany szok, Ciucas, Dorada, Gambrinus, Grolsch, Kobanyai, Kozel, Lech, Peroni, Peroni Nastro Azzurro, Pilsner Urquell, ari, Sarmat, Smadny Mnich, Timisoreana, Tropical, Tyskie, Zhigulivskoe, Zolotaya Bochka, Zubr For more information view our brand explorer at www.
com brandexplorer Volumes in Russia grew 1%, despite a slow start to the year after In Italy economic conditions remain depressed resulting in a the signi cant January 2010 excise increase, then assisted by an continued decline in the beer market particularly in the on-premise exceptionally warm summer and an improving trend in the second channel.
Birra Peroni domestic volumes declined 4% but our value half of the year as the economy showed signs of recovery and strategy resulted in constant currency revenue per hectolitre growth consumer sentiment strengthened.
In a market characterised by of 4%, bene ting from improved channel mix and strong pricing.
signi cant downtrading we have held share.
In the premium segment Effective revenue management along with focused marketing our local brand Zolotaya Bochka has been affected by competitor investment behind core brands and xed cost productivity resulted price reductions to which we have responded with a continued focus in a strong improvement in EBITA.
In line with our strategy to improve on value, supported by brand investment.
Kozel enjoyed another value in this market we have agreed to dispose of our in-house strong year growing in a declining segment, and the decline in Miller distribution operation in Italy which has resulted in a charge for Genuine Draft slowed due to a revitalised Its Miller time marketing impairment and associated costs.
We have driven economy segment growth led by Tri Bogatyrya, particularly as a result of a new 3 litre PET pack.
Growth Domestic lager volumes in the Netherlands declined by 2%, in line in our regional portfolio, including Simbirskoe in the Ulyanovsk with the beer market, and we maintained share.
We launched Pilsner region and the Vladpivo brands, has offset volume declines in the Urquell and Peroni Nastro Azzurro in the premium segment.
Reported revenue per hectolitre growth re ects prior have recently announced further restructuring in both brewery and year excise-related price increases.
Despite downtrading, focus on commercial operations.
production ef ciencies and xed cost productivity resulted in an improvement in EBITA.
In Ukraine volumes grew 21% bene ting In the United Kingdom lager volumes grew 23% in a premium fromeconomicrecovery along with the success of the Sarmat variant segment which expanded only marginally.
Peroni Nastro Azzurro Zhigulivskoe and a 1.25 litre PET pack, while recently introduced continued its strong performance growing volume 21% with signi cant premium brands have also boosted growth.
Premium portfolio volumes were strong across the board and particularly healthy in Miller Genuine Draft, In Romania lager volumes declined by 8% in an economy which Pilsner Urquell and Tyskie.
Consumer con dence has been severely impacted by government austerity measures including a 5% increase In Hungary and Slovakia dif cult economic conditions continued, in VAT in July 2010 and a decline in real wages.
Until these measures resulting in depressed beer markets but with improving trends in the were implemented, the mainstream category had held its own, second half.
In Hungary volumes declined 5%, but our market share capturing downtrading from the premium segment.
Since July 2010 improved re ecting in-trade execution focused on capturing uptrading the economy segment has seen accelerated downtrading from into the premium segment alongside the more signi cant downtrading the mainstream segment and our mainstream brand Timisoreana into economy brands.
Volumes declined in Slovakia by 7% but the declined despite performing well within its segment.
Our economy focus on premium occasions successfully drove growth in Pilsner brands Ciucas and Azuga gained share in the growing economy Urquell and on-premise share growth.
While trading was challenging segment.
Ciucas growth followed a brand relaunch in the second half in the Canaries, the recent gradual return of tourists resulted in level with a new pack offering supported by effective trade and consumer volume performance and we have started rationalising our distribution communication.
In this market context, we announced the closure route to market.
of the Cluj brewery in November and are also in the process of restructuring our commercial operations.
