he Group had a busy year operationally in Operational review 2011 completing over 3.5 million man hours T worked on operated projects, participating in the drilling of 14 wells and shooting 3,000 km of 2D seismic data and 2,700 sq km of 3D seismic data.
The prospect density seen in 28.3 MMboe of 2P reserves were added through the B8 38 and anticipated in G4 50 commercialisation of gas from the Kerendan field, the discovery of oil in the Bualuang East Terrace prospect will provide numerous drillable and upward revision of reserves in the Bualuang main targets with high value potential field.
In addition, the disposal of the low margin and low well costs.
ONWJ and SES PSCs released capital for investment in the Groups three core areas, namely Greater Bualuang, Greater Kerendan and the North Kutei.
Production for the year averaged 18,600 boepd and in 2012 it is expected to average between 12,000 and 13,000 boepd.
The reduction is principally a result of the sale of the ONWJ and SES PSCs.
Growth is expected in the coming years through increased volumes from the Bualuang field and commencement of production from the Kerendan and South Sembakung developments which are expected to drive average daily production to over 20,000 boepd in 2014.
Operationally, as well as focusing on delivering and maintaining production, the Group developed its plans for the activities in its core areas in 2012.
In the Greater Bualuang area in Thailand, the construction of the Bualuang Bravo platform began in mid-2011 and it is scheduled for installation in 3Q 2012.
The Bravo platform will provide 16 production well slots and will allow the full field development of the Bualuang main reservoir and the East Terrace discovery to proceed and so increase production from 2013 onwards.
In the North Kutei in Indonesia, the Group acquired, processed and interpreted a 3D seismic survey over part of the SE Sangatta licence and has mapped a number of large oil and gas prospects.
It also completed a detailed technical review of the acreage incorporating data from the Angklung-1 well that has further improved the understanding of the hydrocarbon system in this part of the basin.
This has formed the basis of planning for an Mike Buck Chief Operating Officer extensive drilling campaign starting in 2012 that has transformational potential for Salamander with the initial four prospects targeting a gross 676 MMboe of mean prospective resource.
13 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Operational review continued Thailand Greater Bualuang The Groups activities during 2011 in the Greater Bualuang area included: an exploration success with Finally, in the Kerendan field, the Group finished the Bualuang East Terrace oil discovery: an appraisal its re-evaluation of the previous operators work of the deeper T2 reservoir confirming its commercial programme, completed requisite upgrades to the rig potential: further development drilling on the and obtained the outstanding environmental permits.
Bualuang field: start of construction of the Bualuang This will enable the Group to execute an exploration Bravo platform: and the entry through farm-in to the and development drilling campaign in 2012 that G4 50 acreage surrounding the Groups existing will fulfil the requirements of the signed Kerendan B8 38 block.
At year end the Group also booked gas sales agreement and target additional material additional 8 MMbo of 2P reserves on the Bualuang reserves in satellite prospects which have low field, both as a result of increased recovery factor risk characteristics.
on the main field and the incorporation of reserves found in the East Terrace.
HSE B8 38 100%, Operator The number of man-hours worked on operated Production from the Bualuang field averaged 7,800 projects increased by 40 per cent compared to 2010. bopd during the year under review.
Following a delay The Board places a high emphasis on maintaining in the arrival of the Ocean Sovereign jack-up rig, high standards of HSE performance throughout its due to the rig owner having to resolve administrative operations and with the current and forecast increase issues and then some damage to the rig during in operated man-hours, the Board instructed the jacking up operations, Phase 5 of Bualuang HSE adviser to conduct a review of lost time injuries development drilling was successfully completed and HSE culture within the Company.
This programme comprised drilling concluded that the Groups HSE management system, of three new horizontal wells, the side-tracking of two and the HSE culture evident at the operating sites, existing production wells and the work-over of one is well developed compared to other operators in water disposal well.
The delay due to the problems the region.
Since the completion of the report HSE with the rig resulted in total production from the field performance has been excellent with no recordable being lower than had been anticipated at the start incidents since September 2011. of 2011 but the performance of the wells once drilled was in line with the pre-drill expectations.
Reserves and resources To facilitate future production growth, the Group The Group entered 2011 with 66.3 MMboe of 2P has sanctioned the Bravo wellhead platform.
During the year the Group added reserves sixteen slot platform will be bridge linked to the due to an upgrade at the Bualuang field, the partial Bualuang Alpha platform, and is scheduled for inclusion of the Bualuang East Terrace discovery, installation during 3Q 2012.
The platform is and the first reserve bookings against the Kerendan being built by Thai Nippon Steel and is currently field.
Set against this was the disposal of the progressing on schedule.
There is a small Groups interest in the ONWJ and SES PSCs plus development drilling programme planned for 1H the production of 6.6 MMboe net to Salamander.
2012 using the Ensco-53 rig, but the majority of As a result of these movements as at 31 December development drilling in 2012 will take place in the 2011 the Groups 2P reserves were 75.3 MMboe, second half, once the Bravo platform has been a 13.6% increase on the previous year and a year installed.
This will see ten development wells drilled on year reserves replacement ratio of 235%.
on the main Bualuang field which will facilitate production growth in 2013.
The Group has signed a 12 month extendable contract for the new build Atwood Mako jack-up rig will mobilise in 3Q 2012.
Average daily production from Bualuang in 2012 is expected to be approximately 8,500 bopd.
14 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Reserves and resources continued realisations of 8.96 per Mcf.
Production was impacted slightly at the year end as disruption caused by Thailand continued the extensive flooding in Thailand prompted a fall In the middle of 2011, the Group made the Bualuang in electricity demand.
During 2012, production East Terrace oil discovery that has resulted in the is expected to average 92 MMscfd as demand returns addition of 8 MMbo to the Groups 2P reserves.
East Terrace will be brought on stream with six wells The Group drilled the Dao Ruang-2 appraisal drilled from the Bravo Platform in 1H 2013. well 50%, operator in 1H 2011 on the eastern The Ensco-53 Jack-Up rig is currently mobilising to flank of the large Dao Ruang structure.
Due to its delayed arrival the Group has encountering gas shows, on test the well failed to elected to switch the order of the drilling programme flow at a sustained commercial rate.
The Dao Ruang-3 and commence with the drilling of the two planned appraisal well was also drilled targeting the northern development wells.
This will enable it to increase flank of the structure.
This also encountered gas production and take advantage of current high oil shows, but the well data indicated that the well prices.
Exploration drilling will follow the completion would have limited potential as a producer and so it of the two development wells with the Bualuang NW was not tested.
After extensive post well evaluations Terrace and Bualuang Far East exploration wells were completed the two wells were plugged and expected to be completed by early June.
abandoned as sub-commercial gas discoveries.
1 G4 50 100%, Operator Post the period end the Group completed the During 2H 2011 the Group acquired a 100% successful appraisal of the Dong Mun discovery in interest in the G4 50 block in the Gulf of Thailand.
Block L27 43 27% with the Dong Mun-3 sidetrack G4 50 is a very large block 5,800 sq km surrounding DM-3ST.
The well flow tested at a rate of the Groups B8 38 licence and was the golden block 15 MMscfd and has been suspended as a future of the last exploration licensing round in Thailand, producer.
The Operator is now preparing to file receiving more bids than any other block.
proximity to the B8 38 licence means the Group has 1 Moeco retains a 50% back in right a detailed understanding of the geology of the block and the hydrocarbon system that it contains.
The Indonesia block consists of five sub-basins, two of which are Greater Kerendan covered by 2,500 sq km of existing 3D seismic.
In The Group added to its operated position in the February 2012, the Group concluded the acquisition Bangkanai PSC, one of its three core areas of activity, of a 3,000 sq km 3D seismic survey over two of the during 2011 by acquiring a further 11% of the equity other sub-basins.
The Groups interpretation of the to take its working interest to 80%.
The Bangkanai existing 2D and 3D data sets shows a large number PSC is anchored around the Kerendan gas field of leads which, when combined with the new 3D, development.
The Group signed a Gas Sales and are expected to generate multiple prospects mature Purchase Agreement during 1H 2011 for the supply for drilling.
These will be targeted for exploration of up to 20 MMscfd of gas at a price of $4.79 per drilling from 2H 2012 onwards using the Atwood MMbtu.
This commercialised 120 Bcf of gas which Mako jack-up rig.
will be sent to a new build PLN operated power plant There are financial and operational synergies from 3 km from the field.
As a result of signing the GSA operating across a larger swathe of acreage.
From a the Group has booked 19.0 MMboe of 2P reserves financial perspective, the Group is able to offset 50% against the Kerendan field at year end 2011.
There is of its exploration costs against income tax incurred a further 160 Bcf of contingent resource certified on on production from the Bualuang field.
The prospect the Kerendan field which the Group will seek to density seen in B8 38 and anticipated in G4 50 will commercialise on completion of further development provide numerous drillable targets with high value drilling in 2012.
The PLN operated power plant is potential and low well costs.
being built to receive over three times the volumes currently contracted so there will be a ready market Other assets to commercialise further resources.
The PLN power The Sinphuhorm gas field 9.5% in Thailand plant will be connected by transmission lines remains a reliable production asset and average daily currently under construction to the main Kalimantan production in 2011 was 83 MMscfd with average electricity grid.
15 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Operational review continued North Kutei During 2011 the Group has been completing its technical review of its North Kutei acreage in light of the play-opening Angklung-1 exploration success at Reserves and resources continued the end of 2010 and incorporating the newly acquired 3D seismic over the SE Sangatta licence.
The North Indonesia continued Kutei is one of the Groups three core areas, with The DrillCo-1 rig began mobilisation in March 2012 potential mean recoverable resources of c. 3 Tcf of and is expected to be fully rigged up on location and gas and 400 million barrels of oil.
It will complete a development With the Angklung-1 well having tested high gas drilling programme on the Kerendan field consisting flow rates from very good quality Pliocene channel of three wells.
Meanwhile, the gas processing facilities sands providing positive calibration for the 3D have received Indonesian government approval and seismic, the Group is confident that the numerous will be constructed and ready to deliver first gas by amplitude anomalies apparent on the seismic data the end of 2013. in the Bontang and SE Sangatta PSCs equate In addition to the main Kerendan field, the Bangkanai to gas-bearing Pliocene sandstones.
These are PSC contains a number of exploration leads and slope channel features with stacked reservoir prospects, one of which, the West Kerendan prospect, potential, providing multiple objectives for each is scheduled to be drilled during 4Q 2012.
Kerendan is part of the same reefal build-up that There is also evidence of further upside in the form of reservoirs the Kerendan field and is estimated to an oil and gas play in the deeper Miocene sandstones.
contain 335 Bcf of mean potential resource in the The Angklung-1 well intersected 125 metres of oil Oligocene Berai carbonate horizon, the productive saturated Miocene sands but these sands were poorly zone of the Kerendan field.
Beneath the Berai developed as they lie outside the main channel objective in West Kerendan there is a deeper Eocene complexes and so have relatively poor quality clastic target in a large four way dip closed structure reservoir in the Angklung well.
However, the new called Sungai Lahei.
The West Kerendan exploration seismic has allowed a much better imaging of the well will be deepened to investigate the potential Miocene section and the traps mapped, along with of Sungai Lahei, which is estimated to have mean the evidence for active oil seeps across the basin resource potential of 580 Bcf.
The Sungai Lahei including a seep that appears to be coming from the structure was penetrated by Unocals Kerendan-2 well bounding fault of the giant Kendang structure on the in the 1980s and although not tested the well logs SE Sangatta licence highlight the potential of the reveal that there is gas pay in early Oligocene sands Miocene play in this under-explored part of the basin.
West Kerendan-1 will drill the same structure up-dip from Kerendan-2 and is designed to To begin unlocking value, the Group would like to penetrate several hundred metres of Eocene section.
commit to a contract for a rig and drill up to eight wells across the basin in order to prove up resources.
Whilst there is scope to send increased volumes of The first targets are likely to be Kecapi, Bedug, gas to the nearby PLN power plant, if the exploration Kendang North and Kendang South.
The Group has potential in the Bangkanai PSC is realised it will be identified approximately 20 prospects and leads that feasible to build a pipeline 220 km to Balikpapan to would provide follow on potential.
This represents tie into the East Kalimantan pipeline infrastructure an attractive exploration opportunity with a tangible where there are multiple commercialisation options at route to commercialisation and the Group has a higher price than those that can be realised from been in discussions with selected potential partners local power generation.
concerning a farm-out of its position in its two The Group has also entered into Joint Study operated PSCs.
As part of that process, the Group Agreements for the North East Bangkanai and West has had an independent assessment of the resource Bangkanai areas that provide it with an opportunity potential in the North Kutei completed by ISIS to expand its acreage position in the basin.
ISIS provides the following resource estimates for the initial prospects: 16 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Reserves and resources continued North Kutei continued Mean Unrisked P90 Unrisked P50 Unrisked P10 Unrisked Prospective Prospective Prospective Prospective Prospect Licence HC Type Resource Resource Resource Resource Kecapi Bontang PSC Gas Bcf 245 119 233 389 Oil MMbo 3 0.1 3 6 Bedug Bontang PSC Gas Bcf 293 124 268 491 Oil MMbo 15 2 12 30 South Kendang SE Sangatta PSC Gas Bcf 1190 579 1063 1953 Oil MMbo 108 37 102 188 North Kendang SE Sangatta PSC Gas Bcf 766 353 708 1239 Oil MMbo 134 65 125 208 Total MMboe 676 Total Net Salamander MMboe 534 Conversion factor 6 Bscf MMboe Salamander has 100% working interest in Bontang PSC and 75% in SE Sangatta PSC All prospective resource figures are gross unless otherwise stated In the event of further drilling success, there are The Group sold its five per cent non-operated multiple commercialisation options for gas in the area.
interests in the ONWJ and SES PSCs in 2H 2011 for The Bontang LNG plant is less than 100 km from the $57.7 million.
These licences represented low margin, Groups North Kutei prospects and provides a very high tax, high cost barrels, in fields that are in long attractive commercialisation possibility with recent term decline.
Therefore, the decision was taken to export cargoes realising $17 Mcf.
The plant currently divest of these assets and reinvest the capital into the has two of its eight trains idle and is 1 Bcf per day Groups core areas where there should be a higher short of feedstock.
In addition to the LNG potential, return on investment.
Production from these PSCs, either for export or for use domestically in Indonesia, averaged over the year, made a net contribution of local industrial and power generation potential exists 4,600 boepd to the Groups 2011 production.
in East Kalimantan and could be expected to realise The South Sembakung field development 21% in excess of $7 Mcf.
continued to make progress with three development Also on the Bontang PSC, the Group is currently wells completed during 2011.
Work has also been drilling the Tutung Alpha-3 appraisal well on its largely completed on the processing facilities and Tutung gas condensate discovery.
The MB Century production is on schedule to commence in 2013.
Rig 28 is expected to complete the drilling during In the Bengara-1 PSC 41% in the Tarakan Basin the second quarter of 2012.
Market research of Northeast Kalimantan, Indonesia, the South reveals a latent demand for gas in this area of Sebuku-2 appraisal well was drilled in 4Q 2011 East Kalimantan and so even the potentially and encountered over 15 metres of net gas-bearing modest reserves at Tutung could be developed sandstones in the Tabul formation.
Drill stem under attractive commercial arrangements.
tests DSTs were conducted across three of the Other assets gas-bearing zones and flowed at an aggregate rate of 10.9 MMscfd.
The operator is preparing a Plan The Kambuna gas and condensate field 50%, of Development for submission to the Indonesian operator in Indonesia averaged 9,600 boepd during regulator with a view to it being approved before 2011.
This comprised 34 MMscfd of gas and 2,400 the end of 2012. bcpd.
The field has now started to enter the natural decline phase.
Compression facilities were installed in 1Q 2012 that will allow the production to continue and so extend the life of the field.
It is expected that production from the Kambuna field will average approximately 4,200 boepd during 2012.
17 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Operational review continued Reserves and resources continued Vietnam In Block 101-100 04 30%, operator, offshore Northern Vietnam, the Group drilled the Cat Ba-1X exploration well.
The well encountered 38 metres of net hydrocarbon pay in Tertiary clastics, the secondary objective of the well.
The primary objective section was dry.
The in-place resource volumes encountered by the well were judged to be below the levels needed for commercial development and so the well was plugged and abandoned as a sub-commercial oil and gas discovery.
Subsequently in 2012 the Group filed for withdrawal from all of its licences in Vietnam and started the process of closing down its operations in country.
Summary The Group made considerable progress in growing its reserve base in 2011.
Not only did reserves increase on an absolute basis, but the value per barrel of these reserves also grew.
This reflects Salamanders strategy of realigning the portfolio to transfer capital to where it will generate the most potential value for shareholders, specifically through focus on the three core areas of Greater Bualuang, Greater Kerendan and the North Kutei.
With the divestment of non-core producing assets production shrank year on year: however, growth is forecast point forward with a changing production mix, also leading to greater cash generation.
The Bualuang East Terrace discovery was material, and part of the discovered resource has been added to the Groups 2P reserves.
The 2012 exploration and appraisal programme is focussed on three low risk areas where the Group is stepping out from existing fields or discoveries.
Hence the 2012 drilling programme has a lower risk profile compared to recent years and will target c. 290 MMboe of mean unrisked resource potential.
Mike Buck Chief Operating Officer 23 March 2012 18 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
