Section 3 | Our performance Operating Review | Civil Government The Operating Review is presented according to the five divisions into which we were organised in 2011: Civil Government Defence, Science and Nuclear Local Government and Commercial Americas AMEAA Africa, Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
The section outlines contract wins which are significant because of their value or their strategic contribution to our business.
We have also won numerous other smaller and medium-sized contracts, details of some of which can be found on our website at www.
Civil Government includes our UK and European operations in transport, home affairs custodial, immigration and field services, and border security and control, welfare to work and clinical healthcare.
Revenue on a reported basis grew 6% to 1,199m 2010: 1,127m Transport and represented 26% of Group revenue.
Revenue on an organic Northern Rail continues to perform well, with 2011 punctuality basis also increased 6%.
Adjusted operating profit, before metrics of 91.7%, just ahead of the industry average and corporate expenses, increased by 20%, with the margin increasing maintaining the significant improvement achieved over our from 5.9% to 6.6%.
Northern Rail was named Public Transport Operator of the Year Rail at the 2011 National Transport Revenue growth was supported by previous large contract awards Awards, awarded the top transport title from the Royal Society for that became operational or saw revenues build through the course the Prevention of Accidents for the third year running, as well as the of 2010 and 2011.
These included the timing of revenues earned Sustainable Business of the Year for 2011 in the Environment and under the previous Flexible New Deal welfare to work contracts and Energy Awards, supported by Sustainable Business.
In May 2010, passenger growth on the Docklands Light Railway.
The expansion Northern Rail was awarded an extension to its franchise through of the GSTS Pathology joint venture to include Kings College to September 2013.
We expect a further short extension through Hospital NHS Foundation increased revenues but challenged to April 2014, which would see the rebid process begin next year.
the achievement of efficiency improvements.
The overall margin improvement reflected the higher than average bid costs in 2010 Merseyrail has also had a strong operational performance in the and the strong performance in 2011. year, with the majority of its business indicators showing a stable and healthy performance, including punctuality at 95.1%, well above the industry average.
This comes on top of being the UKs most punctual rail operation as well as the most highly rated in terms of customer satisfaction during 2010.
Merseyrail has also achieved the Investors in Excellence Standard, an internationally recognised mark of quality, for achieving continuous improvement as well as ongoing success and sustainability.
Docklands Light Railway saw customer satisfaction improve to 96.7% in December 2011, the best result for four years.
Service reliability has also increased to an average throughout the year of 97.7% of trains running to schedule and passenger growth has continued following the previous years increase in capacity with 40 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
