RevIeW OF OpeRAtIOnS FIRSt OIl FROm tHe tgt FIeld WAS tHe event OF 2011 tHAt CHAnged tHe OpeRAtIOnAl And FInAnCIAl pROFIle OF tHe COmpAny Above: Antony Maris, Vice President Operations and Production Te Giac Trang TGT s Phase I production began Production on schedule and on budget on 22 August 2011.
Te Giac Trang, Block 16-1 Current 2012 year-to-date average production is The TGT field extends over 15 kilometres along the 30,424 barrels of oil per day BOPD.
The Block was awarded to SOCO in December 1999 and the first Total production net to the Groups working interest discovery on TGT was made in 2005. from continuing operations during 2011 was 5,437 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD compared Phase I: with 2,257 BOEPD produced in 2010.
Preparation for first production was the primary focus for the first half of 2011.
The project was, South east Asia by far, the largest development and production project that the Company has ever been involved vietnam in.
First oil was achieved on 22 August 2011, SOCOs Block 16-1 and Block 9-2 projects in just days from the targeted date set two years Vietnam are located offshore in the oil rich Cuu previously: a clear testament to the hard work Long Basin, which is a shallow water, near shore invested in the project by SOCO, its partners and area defined by several high profile producing oil the staff of the HLJOC.
fields, the largest of which, Bach Ho, is located between the two Blocks and has produced more The first phase of the H1 platform development than one billion barrels of oil to date.
The projects drilling programme, which began in 2010, was are operated through non-profit Joint Operating concluded in 2011 with the completion of five Companies JOCs wherein each participating party remaining development wells, TGT-4P to -8P.
owns shares equivalent to its respective interests in The TGT-4P well, drilled in the southwest area the Petroleum Contracts governing the projects.
of the northern fault block encountered the top of the target reservoir horizon lower than expected The Groups interests are held through its 80% but encountered previously unmapped owned subsidiary SOCO Vietnam Ltd and through hydrocarbons in the Oligocene C reservoir.
its 100% ownership of OPECO, Inc. SOCO Vietnam The TGT-5P well, drilled to the northern part of the Related sections and Ltd holds a 25% working interest in Block 9-2, field encountered the main reservoir as expected, 4 more information which is operated by the Hoan Vu JOC HVJOC while the TGT-6P, drilled to the southern part of and a 28.5% working interest in Block 16-1, which the northern fault block, encountered the main Risk Management p31 is operated by the Hoang Long JOC HLJOC.
The TGT-7P well, OPECO, Inc. holds a 2% working interest in Block drilled to the central area, also encountered the R eserves p98 16-1.
SOCOs partners on both Blocks are main reservoir horizon as predicted although it Petrovietnam, the national oil company of Vietnam, encountered a thicker pay section than expected.
and PTTEP, the national oil company of Thailand.
The TGT-8P well, targeting the central area of the SOCO International plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information H1.2 fault block, near the TGT-1X discovery well, initial reservoir management plan following the was close to pre-drill prognosis.
review of the well results and the initial performance of the wells.
The final stages of preparation for first oil included vietnam the installation of the topsides on the jacket on the Initial production from wells with perforated wellhead platform on TGTs H1 area and the Miocene sands was as expected, as was production Block: 9-2 deployment of the Armada TGT 1, the floating Field development from two of the three wells with perforations in the production production storage and offloading vessel FPSO, Oligocene reservoir.
However, to evaluate the which arrived on location in July 2011.
The vessel reservoir sweep within the Oligocene reservoir more had undergone 22 months of conversion work by thoroughly, additional perforations within the BAB-VSP, a joint venture between Bumi Armada shallow, more productive Miocene reservoir were Block: 16-1 Appraisal field Berhad and Vietsovpetro, in the Keppell Shipyard not added immediately, which was a deviation from development in Singapore.
At name plate capacity, the the original agreed plan.
A revised reservoir production double-hulled 274 metre vessel is capable of management plan, including reviewing amendments processing 55,000 BOPD and 75,000 barrels of to the current 2012 development drilling water per day and storing 620,000 barrels of oil.
programme, which includes four wells from the H1 wellhead platform, and individual well management The TGT field is a complex, stacked sand reservoir plans to achieve plateau production of 55,000 system that is vertically extensive with up to 55 BOPD is under review.
reservoir subzones, each requiring individual reservoir management to ensure that recovery Well performance to date in the H1 fault block area from the field is optimised.
Prior to the start of has demonstrated the ability of all wells to produce production, reservoir management plans were oil at high rates with minimal drawdown and, with agreed involving a sequence, over two to three the exception of wells perforated at or close to the years, of selected perforation programmes of oil water contracts, without significant water specific limited subzones within each well.
It has confirmed the presence of a local, only the initial programme has been undertaken.
strong aquifer that provides support to the main Baseline reservoir management information Miocene ILBH5.2 reservoir and the secondary continues to be gathered from these limited objective of the Oligocene C. Well flowing reservoir intervals.
Technical meetings, held at pressures are very stable, indicating the strong the end of October with the Block 16-1 partners, level of pressure support and the high degree of resulted in the decision to update and modify the connectivity within the main producing reservoirs.
Non-Financial Key Performance Indicators Continuing and Discontinued Operations 2011 2010 2009 Production BOEPD 5,437 4,648 6,415 Total proven and probable reserve additions mmboe 3.4 Proven and probable reserves mmboe 130.3 132.6 142.5 See the Five Year Summary on page 96 for definitions SOCO International plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information RevIeW OF OpeRAtIOnS continued Above: Gordon Graham, Group Exploration Manager Gas export, through a pipeline to the nearby Bach Ca Ngu Vang CNV, Block 9-2 The CNV field is located in the western part of Ho Facilities for processing and transportation to shore via the existing pipeline infrastructure for Block 9-2, offshore Vietnam and is operated by the HVJOC.
First oil was in 2008 and the field is further distribution, also commenced while the gas-related process systems are fully tested and currently producing at approximately 9,800 BOEPD, comprising approximately 6,800 BOPD commissioned.
Peak gas production will be approximately 30 million standard cubic feet per day.
and 18.3 million standard cubic feet of gas and gas liquids per day.
During 2011, CNV production net to Above: Vincent Duignan, Phase II: the Companys working interest has averaged Deputy General Manager The Field Development Plan for TGT was approved approximately 2,283 BOEPD.
Hoang Long & Hoan Vu JOCs by the Government of Vietnam on 30 March 2011 and incorporated the accelerated Phase II In contrast to TGT, the CNV field produces highly development programme.
Development drilling volatile oil from fractured Basement reservoir with operations for Phase II commenced in October with a high gas to oil ratio and exploitation is dependent the spudding of the first well at the H4 wellhead on the fracture interconnectivity to efficiently platform by the Petrovietnam Drilling PVD-1 jack up deplete the reservoir.
Hydrocarbons produced from drilling rig.
Batch drilling of the five wells is ongoing.
CNV are transported via subsea pipeline to the The wells are expected to be completed ahead of Bach Ho central processing platform where the wet the installation of the production deck and ready for gas is separated from crude oil and transported via production start up in August 2012. pipeline to an onshore gas facility for further distribution.
The crude oil is stored on a floating The TGT-9P well, drilled to the east of the TGT-6X storage and offloading vessel prior to sale.
well, was planned to penetrate the main reservoir horizons in the western part of the H4 fault block.
During 2011, work commenced to design, The TGT-10P well was planned to be drilled to the construct and install additional dedicated test H3N fault block north of the TGT-7X well and was separation and metering facilities on the designed to also penetrate across a fault to the processing platform in order to more accurately southern part of the H2 fault block to establish the measure liquid and gas production entering the existence of hydrocarbons in an area not currently Bach Ho facilities from the CNV production mapped as oil bearing in the mid-case.
The separator was installed in the fourth well, TGT-11P, was the second well in the H4 fault Proven and Probable Reserves block and was to the southern part of the Block.
TGT-12P was drilled to the middle part of the H3N fault block.
The Block 16-1 partners have recently agreed the location of the fifth well, TGT-14P, which will be drilled prior to releasing the rig to allow the installation of the production deck, and final hook up and completion prior to production start.
The well will be targeted to the southwest part of the H4 fault block.
CNV Congo TGT Vietnam Vietnam SOCO International plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 RevIeW OF OpeRAtIOnS continued Above: Serge Lescaut, General Manager, Africa Region quarter with the metering equipment expected to Africa be installed in the first quarter of 2012 with commissioning expected to be completed by May Congo brazzaville 2012.
The benefit to the Company will be a more SOCO holds its interests in the Republic of Congo accurate allocation of CNV oil, gas and gas liquids Brazzaville, all offshore in the shallow water production within the Bach Ho production system, Lower Congo Basin, through its 85% owned which is expected to add up to approximately subsidiary, SOCO Exploration and Production 2,000 BOEPD to the liquids stream.
SOCO EPC holds a 29% participating interest in the Marine XI Block and a Appraisal 29.4% participating interest in the Marine XIV Above: Jose Sangwa, Country Manager, Te Giac Den TGD, Block 16-1 Block and is designated operator of the two Blocks.
Democratic Republic The TGD Appraisal Area encompasses 150 square of Congo kilometres and includes the high pressure, high Exploration Marine XI temperature discovery well, TGD-1X-ST1, on the previously designated Prospect E, and the The ENSCO 5003 rig was contracted and analogous E South Prospect.
This area borders refurbished during the first half of 2011 before the southern boundary of the TGT field.
being towed to the Lower Congo Basin to drill the Mindou Marine 1 MIM-1 exploration well, which An extension period for the TGD Appraisal Area spudded on 5 September.
was approved by the Government of Vietnam in May 2011.
During the third quarter, approximately The MIM-1 well reached a total measured depth 2 of full fold 3D seismic data was acquired 140 km of approximately 3,515 metres on 31 October over the TGD Appraisal Area.
The data has been without encountering hydrocarbon bearing sent out for processing and interpretation is reservoir.
The target reservoirs were carbonates ongoing to deliver prospectivity maps.
While the and sandstone of the pre-salt TOCA and Djeno new seismic has improved the image across the formations.
Palaeontology results from the well, area, the reservoir risk is higher and may preclude however, suggest that  drilling.
A decision to drill a well must be made by sediments were below the salt.
Thus, the basal the end of the initial extension period, which runs Vandji sand, producing elsewhere in the area but from 1 January 2011 to 30 April 2012.
An previously thought to be too deep to be considered, additional six months extension will be in effect has become a viable reservoir target.
A third, through 31 October 2012 in the event that the post-salt well was postponed so results from this Company elects to drill a well.
drilling campaign could be factored into the well plan.
It is expected that the third exploration well, a post-salt target on Block Marine XI will be drilled as an add-on to other exploration drilling programmes planned in the region.
Marine XIV The Makouala Marine 1 MKM-1 exploration well spudded on 19 November 2011 in the Marine XIV Block.
The well encountered hydrocarbons in the Chela, and in the Upper and Lower Sendji formation horizons.
SOCO International plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information RevIeW OF OpeRAtIOnS continued Block Evaluation The MKM-1 well targeted the post-salt Sendji Formation reservoir within a four-way dip closed Block V The security review over Block V in the Albertine structure.
The well encountered hydrocarbons in both the primary and secondary reservoir targets.
Rift in the DRC is ongoing.
The Companys initial environmental and social impact assessment However, analysis of the wireline logs indicated that the reservoir sands at the location were not as well ESIA was submitted to the Groupe dEtudes Environnementales du Congo in March 2011 and, developed as predicted and there was insufficient overall pay thickness for commercial flow rates.
following a period of review and consultation with Above: Mike Herron, The well was subsequently plugged and stakeholders, including various departments within Finance Manager, abandoned and the rig released.
Information from the Government of DRC, a final ESIA was Africa Region this drilling campaign will be factored into further submitted in May and was later approved.
An drilling decisions to be taken later this year.
aeromagnetic and aerogravity survey is planned for 2012 with a seismic programme over Lake Edward democratic Republic of Congo to follow.
The exploration licence was granted by a kinshasa dRC decree signed by the Hydrocarbons Minister on SOCO holds its interests in the Democratic 26 October 2011.
Republic of Congo Kinshasa through its 85% owned subsidiary SOCO Exploration and Angola Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC.
SOCO E&P Block Evaluation and Exploration DRC holds a 65% participating interest in the Cabinda Onshore North Block Above: Lambert Mougani, Nganzi Block, situated in the North Congo Basin SOCO Cabinda Limited, the Companys 80% Deputy Finance Manager, onshore western DRC, and a 38.25% participating owned subsidiary, holds a 17% participating Africa Region interest in Block V, in the southern Albertine interest in the Production Sharing Agreement for Graben onshore eastern DRC.
SOCO E&P DRC is the Cabinda Onshore North Block in the Angolan enclave of Cabinda.
The Block, which is operated designated operator of both Blocks.
by Sonangol, covers 1,400 square kilometres and Exploration is bordered in the north by Congo Brazzaville and Nganzi Block in the south and east by the DRC.
The wildcat exploration well, Bayingu-1 BYU-1, spudded in December 2010 on the prospect The seismic acquisition programme that previously designated as Prospect H, located in the recommenced in May 2010 was completed towards southern portion of the Nganzi Block.
The well the end of the first half of 2011.
Processing of the encountered oil and gas shows in both the primary data is complete and a full interpretation has and secondary reservoir targets.
The reservoir sands commenced, with the expectation that a drilling at the primary Lower Bucomazi target, however, campaign could begin by the end of this year.
were poorly developed, whilst the residual nature of the oil shows in the secondary Chela formation indicates lack of closure at this location.
The well was plugged and abandoned in January 2011.
Further evaluation of the Nganzi Block incorporating information gathered in the 2010 11 drilling programme has been completed and indicates remaining prospectivity in the Chela formation.
A follow-up 2D seismic acquisition programme commenced in the first quarter of 2012.
Should seismic interpretation warrant, a second round of exploration drilling could begin in late 2012 prior to the end of the initial exploration period.
SOCO International plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
