20 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review Materials Analysis Highlights Strong recovery in metals and mining Demand from pharmaceutical market driven by new drug research and regulatory enforcement Academic R&D markets strong, helped by initiatives in emerging markets to invest in academic leadership New facility opened for X-ray tube manufacture Overview response to stricter regulation and quality control Materials Analysis provides a range of analytical during drug manufacture.
A Chinese pharmaceutical 337.5m instrumentation to the metals and mining, research customer purchased our new X-ray research pharmaceutical and fine chemicals and electronics platform, Empyrean, for analysing the active Sales up 24% industries, and also to academic and research ingredients in tablets in order to optimise drug institutions.
Our products help customers to improve formulation.
This is the first Empyrean system to be accuracy and speed of materials analysis in the installed in China for this application.
We saw good laboratory and in process quality control.
The sales of our pharmaceutical facility monitoring 60.9m operating companies in this segment are Malvern systems, particularly in North America and China.
Instruments, PANalytical and Particle Measuring These systems are used to monitor contamination Operating profit Systems.
within sterile environments, thus ensuring the drug is manufactured according to national safety up 54% Segment performance regulations.
The metals, minerals and mining sector, the largest end user market for this segment, recovered strongly Sales to the academic sector and to research in 2011.
Large investments by mining companies in institutions worldwide were resilient.
This was helped 18.1% Australia, South Africa and Brazil all resulted in strong by Latin America and China, where government orders for our X-ray analysis equipment.
We also emphasis on increasing academic leadership and Return on sales saw particular interest in applications for analysing development of the high technology sector resulted precious metals and rare earth elements.
The strategic in increased funding for research laboratories.
Our up 3.6pp alliance established in 2010 with French company new X-ray research platform, Empyrean, launched Sodern, a subsidiary of the EADS group, to distribute in 2010, continues to be well received by customers their neutron-based cross-belt analysers made good and won an award for the best technology progress and 2011 saw the first orders for a number innovations in 2011 from R&D Magazine.
In a further of these systems.
These analysers are used in the commendation, Malvern Instruments received the cement, minerals and coal industries for real-time 2011 Queens Award for Enterprise in the category characterisation of raw materials and complement of International Trade.
This is the second year in the X-ray spectrometers PANalytical supplies to these succession that the company has won a Queens customers.
Award the 2010 award was in the category of Innovation, for the development of the Zetasizer We saw good growth in sales to the pharmaceutical Nano particle characterisation system.
sector, both for research into new drugs and in 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Case study PANalytical helps KETI to develop longer-life batteries The Korea Electronics Technology Institute KETI is a government body leading research into electronics for Korean companies such as Samsung SDI.
One key project is to develop a new lithium ion rechargeable battery to provide more powerful and lighter power cells for devices such as mobile phones, laptops, and electric cars.
The research involves adding different materials such as iron or manganese to the existing lithium cobalt oxide technology to improve the performance of the battery.
KETI used PANalyticals Empyrean X-ray diffraction system to study changes in the size and structure of crystals inside the battery cell as the quantities of iron and manganese were adjusted.
The result was a rechargeable battery with improved lifetime, superior charge discharge cycling and low discharge losses.
Steadily increasing demand for our X-ray tubes to grow as these countries seek to increase the resulted in projected production capacity limitations number and quality of academic institutions.
and in September we opened a new state-of-the-art Research into new drugs and stricter enforcement manufacturing facility in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, of regulations on their manufacture are likely to for these critical components of our X-ray continue to drive demand for our products from the instruments.
Segment outlook The metals, minerals and mining sector has recovered from the slowdown of 20092010, and we expect investment to continue due to ongoing demand from emerging markets where infrastructure projects are driving expenditure for construction-related sectors.
Academic research in emerging markets will continue 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 22 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review continued Test and Measurement Highlights Good demand from automotive market: new project wins for noise analysis and torque measurement New aerospace projects for structural testing of materials in China and vibration testing for satellites in Brazil Successful expansion of noise monitoring services into new applications Good progress in other markets, e. g. consumer electronics, power Overview Sales to the aerospace market grew strongly.
In Test and Measurement supplies test, measurement China, significant investments in the aerospace and analysis equipment and software for product industry resulted in good demand for our data design optimisation, manufacturing control, and acquisition products and we received key orders for environmental monitoring systems.
Markets are structural testing of aircraft materials and landing principally the aerospace, automotive and consumer gear for a new narrow-body commercial airliner.
For customers in the products are also used for satellite launch simulation 346.9m automotive and aerospace industries, our products and qualification testing and at the beginning of the and applications help them to design and test new year, we received an important order from INPE, the Sales up 17% products whilst reducing time to market.
In consumer National Institute for Space Research in Brazil, for electronics, our equipment and software enable satellite vibration and shock testing.
customers to refine the performance and accuracy Consumer demand for electronic items such as smart of their products.
In the environmental monitoring 54.7m phones and tablet computers, and the requirement market, the desire for higher standards of community for improved audio quality of these devices, has comfort is driving increasing demand.
The operating Operating profit resulted in manufacturers increasingly adding companies in this segment are Brel & Kjr Sound & in-line testing of components toend-of-line testing.
up 57% In response, we have adapted our acoustic and Segment performance vibration testing solutions, originally designed for The automotive market, a key end user market for R&D applications, for use on production lines.
this segment, continued to recover.
One area of Furthermore, the increased use of voice control 15.8% increasing R&D focus is electric cars and we received technologies in communication and entertainment an order from a major manufacturer of high systems has led to increased sales of our voice quality Return on sales performance electric cars for torque transducers and evaluation systems.
data acquisition equipment to test certain drivetrain up 4.1pp Our environmental monitoring service business components.
We also received an order for our data continued to grow in the traditional airport noise acquisition system for endurance testing of tyres for monitoring market, and we received new orders passenger cars and light trucks for a major Korean from airports around the world as well as renewal tyre manufacturer.
Our systems are used to measure contracts for existing customers, including Londons the internal pressure of the tyre, the loading force Heathrow and Stansted airports.
New applications and the speed of rotation in durability tests.
Demand for this business in mining and construction are also was strong for our noise analysis instrumentation for proving particularly successful.
We signed a number noise source identification both for customer comfort of contracts for noise monitoring systems, including and for certifying compliance with noise emission the Crossrail infrastructure project for a new rail link regulations.
We have also seen significant interest in across London.
Since much of the construction work our noise evaluation technologies from high speed will take place in highly built-up areas, with night train manufacturers.
work required in some instances, noise compliance is a critical consideration for the building contractors.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Case study Worlds fastest sailing boat uses HBMs measurement technology French sailor Alain Thbault wanted to build the fastest sailing boat in the world.
But flying over the ocean with a boat demands innovative materials and technologies and so Alain relied on HBMs measurement technology to help develop his ultra-fast trimaran, the Hydroptre.
The main challenge was to develop aerodynamic hydrofoils providing sufficient lift above the surface of the water without causing turbulence and able to withstand a pressure of 45 tons.
HBMs instrumentation was installed on board to measure stability, speed, drag, vibration and oscillation, as well as the wear of the materials used.
Alains speed of 51.36 knots 95 km h successfully broke the absolute world speed record for a sail-powered vessel.
In the power sector, our solutions are finding of wind turbines.
This technology is also used to increasing application in a number of areas.
Growing optimise new designs aimed at lowering noise levels demand for electrical power and new energy sources from the blades.
has necessitated expansion of the power grid and the Segment outlook replacement of ageing power infrastructure in many The automotive sector is showing good growth countries.
We have seen steady demand for our as new research programmes are established, test and measurement solutions from a number of particularly in Asia, as well as further development customers for both component manufacture and of vehicles such as hybrid and electric cars.
New independent testing of equipment such as circuit aerospace programmes provide opportunities for breakers, contactors and transformers.
The Genesis growth, and as these become more complex, our HighSpeed family of high-power measurement products will remain in demand for applications such products is ideally suited to applications in the power as materials and structural integrity testing of aircraft industry and provides enhanced test capabilities in full and, increasingly, satellites.
Our products are also compliance with all relevant international standards.
increasingly being used for test and measurement For example, this product is being used at the applications in other industry sectors such as Kennedy Space Center in Florida to identify where consumer electronics, energy and rail.
Environmental any damage may have occurred following lightning noise monitoring continues to grow as regulation strikes.
Our data acquisition systems are also used increases and we expect to continue to find more in the wind energy market and a wind turbine widespread industrial and construction-related manufacturer in China purchased our high capacity applications for our services.
torque transducers for testing gearboxes, generators and main bearings in the design of a large off-shore wind turbine.
We also supply noise monitoring equipment to measure the noise produced by wind turbines and their component parts to ensure that they meet regulation on noise levels which applies in many countries.
2011 saw the sale of the first commercial ground-based system with more than 100 microphones for noise source identification 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 24 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review continued in-line instrumentation highlights Energy and utilities projects include chemical plant, hydro and wind power installations Continued success in tissue applications offsetting decline in traditional coated papers Strong demand for web, film and packaging solutions Investments in optical fibre and telecoms cable continue, especially in emerging markets Overview to prevent the unplanned shutdown of expensive In-line Instrumentation provides process analytical machinery.
Our remote monitoring systems for wind 308.9m measurement, asset monitoring and on-line controls turbine monitoring continued to perform well and for both primary processing and the converting we secured orders from China for pilot system Sales up 13% industries.
Our products and applications provide installations at two wind farms.
precision measurement in challenging operating In the pulp and paper industry, several European and environments, ensuring process quality, asset uptime, North American producers of coated graphic papers safety, and improved yield.
The operating companies curtailed their production rates to adjust for softer 63.8m in this segment are Beta LaserMike, Brel & Kjr demand for print media following a strong recovery Vibro, BTG Group, Fusion UV Systems, NDC Infrared in 2010.
This effect was offset by strong demand for Operating profit Engineering, and Servomex.
our coating blades and rods in China where new up 9% Segment performance coated paper capacity came on line.
There was also The In-line Instrumentation segment, which had a good demand for our instruments, which are used to strong recovery in 2010, returned to more normalised control consistency and to improve operations across growth levels during 2011, as expected.
Operating both pulp production and paper manufacturing 20.6% margins were 0.7pp lower as a result of sales of processes.
In the fourth quarter, we launched service, spare parts and consumables, which are a key a new series of optical brightness transmitters for feature of this segment, growing more slowly than monitoring and controlling bleaching chemicals, Return on sales sales of new products.
optical brightening agents and dyes.
Equipped with a down 0.7pp UV light source for fluorescent measurement, these Growth was strong in the energy and utilities sector, instruments optimise chemical addition and reduce where customers continued to focus on improving operating costs during the pulping process.
We also productivity, efficiency and safety.
During the year we continue to make good progress in tissue markets launched the NanoTrace II series of analysers.
Based and several large tissue manufacturers are now on technology acquired with the Delta-F business, employing our combined technology to improve these instruments measure oxygen at the lowest process productivity and product quality.
New blade detection level in the industry parts per trillion.
We materials in our coating blades are helping to reduce also launched the SERVOTOUGH LaserCompact, operating costs and increase uptime and, in a trial which uses precision laser diode technology to detect at one tissue mill, our new blades achieved a a wide range of gases for applications in the chemical 50% longer lifetime between changes than the industry and in petrochemical processing.
power industry, there was good demand for our safety monitoring systems for hydroelectric power We saw strong demand from the converting stations and we secured orders to install these industries web, film, plastics and packaging for our systems on three large hydroelectric power stations in products.
Continued investment by customers China, representing our first orders for this in both separator film and coating lines for application in the region.
Our condition monitoring production of lithium ion batteries, particularly in systems were also selected for hydroelectric projects China, resulted in a significant increase in orders for in Austria, Brazil and Turkey.
Vibration monitoring our infrared measuring systems for this market provides early detection of a wide range of machine compared with the prior year.
There was also good faults and enables targeted maintenance actions demand for our scanners for measuring plastic film 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 and we launched a new system for blown film which wire and cable market, demand for optical fibre, has been installed at two of the worlds largest and telecom cable in general, grew strongly as producers of complex packaging films.
Blown film infrastructure investments in China and India production has become more sophisticated as the continued, together with the continued deployment industry enters new marketplaces: uniform barrier of fibre to the home in North America.
Previously layer thickness is especially important in films which mothballed equipment at customers sites is being are converted into high performance packaging refurbished and upgraded to meet the increase in films which extend the shelf life of foods and demand, resulting in good sales of our UV curing medical products.
Using our measurement and equipment and gauging systems.
control systems to achieve thickness uniformity, Segment outlook manufacturers can reduce the variation in roll film Investment activity is expected to continue in thickness by 40 to 60%.
Our UV curing systems had hydrocarbon processing worldwide as oil and gas good success in China, with applications including producers seek further productivity and efficiency production of metallised plastics and decorating film.
improvements and as emissions regulations increase The latter is beginning to replace conventional spray compliance requirements.
In the metals sector, the coating operations for decorating the plastic housings acquisition of IRM Group will expand our market found on consumer electronics.
With the acquisition position, particularly in the growing China market.
of the IRM business, we have expanded our product Demand from the electronics sector, including flat line to include thickness and flatness gauging panel displays, will be driven by smaller, portable products for the steel and aluminium industries, devices and demand for optical fibre is expected with significant potential in China.
to continue to grow as infrastructure projects in In the semiconductor and electronics market, emerging markets continue.
In the pulp and paper conditions were mixed.
Demand for new generation industry, current trends are expected to continue, large screen televisions remains subdued: however, with demand for coated papers declining, mitigated demand for smaller, more compact items such as by growing demand for tissue products, particularly tablet computers and smart phones is growing in emerging markets.
Service and support contracts rapidly.
Advances in technology, for example the use will continue to be an important feature of this of polarising films to improve display and touch panel segment as customers seek to ensure uninterrupted performance, has resulted in investment in new production capabilities.
manufacturing processes and the associated UV curing equipment required to achieve this.
In the Case study Brel & Kjr Vibro helps China to expand renewable energy generation Chinas long reliance on coal to generate its electricity is changing as the country plans to expand its hydropower capacity in a concerted effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions.
Brel & Kjr Vibros safety monitoring systems are being used to monitor the generating units at three hydropower stations.
Vibration monitoring provides early detection of a wide range of machine faults, enabling targeted maintenance actions to prevent the unplanned shutdown of expensive machinery.
At the Xiaowan Dam, the worlds tallest double-arch dam and the second-largest hydroelectric power station in China, Brel & Kjr Vibros monitoring systems are used on the six 700 MW installed hydro turbine generator units.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review 26 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating Review continued industrial controls highlights Strategic acquisitions contribute to good growth in sales Integration actions delivering results, e. g. productivity improvements, and sales ahead of expectations Strong demand for track, trace and control applications for product traceability Automation products finding new applications in process industries Overview product traceability resulted in sales of a number of Industrial Controls supplies process measurement, our products for packaging and labelling applications.
monitoring and control instrumentation and In June, we launched the AutoVision product family, networking products for manufacturing industries.
comprising smart cameras and software.
This suite of Our products provide track, trace and control track, trace and control products has been very well solutions during the manufacturing process, received and we have sold a number of systems into instrumentation and displays for process monitoring applications ranging from checking the integrity of 112.9m and control, data interfaces, and rugged Ethernet car airbag seat covers to reading bar codes on switches for a broad range of manufacturing medical instruments.
Sales are made both directly and indirectly Integration of the Omega Engineering business, via distributors to end users as well as directly to acquired at the end of September, into the Industrial original equipment manufacturers, with a significant Controls segment is progressing well.
The transition proportion of repeat business.
The operating 22.1m to new ownership has proceeded smoothly companies in this segment are Microscan, Omega and a number of actions to enhance productivity Engineering and Red Lion Controls.
Operating profit and introduce new products are under way.
The Segment performance organisation is being expanded to increase the up 132% The global manufacturing sector continued to grow companys presence in Europe and to establish an strongly and we saw good demand for our industrial operation in China.
These actions are expected to measurement, communication and control products, accelerate growth in 2012 and beyond.
Investments augmented by the Sixnet and Omega Engineering in systems to improve the efficiency of the operations, 19.6% acquisitions.
finance and administration functions are in the planning stage and are expected to be initiated Our automation products performed well, with high Return on sales during the course of the year.
During 2011, Omega demand for bar code readers and machine vision introduced a number of new products to focus on up 3.7pp systems.
Track, trace and control technologies are wireless communication.
These enable users to increasingly being adopted in response to the monitor and control processes remotely and are growing requirement, and in some cases regulation, particularly useful for retro-fitting instrumentation for manufacturers to improve quality, safety and in existing process lines.
We sold our smart cameras to customers in the food industry for validating packaged products Red Lion Controls completed the acquisition of Sixnet to meet food safety standards and to customers in in October.
This has provided new product platforms, the electronics industry where they are used for and in particular wireless capability, for our industrial process control efficiency during the manufacture automation offering and builds on the networking of sub-assemblies for consumer electronics.
In the products of N-Tron acquired in 2010.
Integration of pharmaceutical industry, strict regulations regarding Sixnet and N-Tron into Red Lion is proceeding on 21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 27 Case study Microscans vision system helps to meet packaging regulations Pharmaceutical manufacturers must meet stringent labelling requirements to ensure safety and prevent counterfeiting.
The data on the label must be accurate and legible throughout the supply chain.
US company, Modular Packaging Systems, designs and manufactures tablet counters and fillers and uses Microscans machine vision system to detect and verify labels in the bottle filling line.
One camera verifies that the date batch code and barcode on each label is correct and a second camera checks each bottle to detect any missing labels.
Bottles with labels that do not meet the required specifications and unlabelled bottles are rejected further down the line.
track, and the enlarged company will be deploying a consolidated go-to-market strategy over the next few months.
In its traditional business, Red Lions operator panels are finding new applications in process industries such as gas production and distribution where they are used for control on drilling rigs and on the compressors which move the gas through miles of cross-country pipeline.
Red Lions technology enables customers to drive productivity improvements through real-time visibility of data and, in October, the company launched the ProducTVity Station, a ready-to-use solution for collecting, recording and displaying critical performance indicators and machine status messages in production facilities.
Segment outlook Whilst demand from the general manufacturing sector will depend to some extent on the global economy, recent acquisitions have strengthened our position in monitoring, control and communication in the industrial automation and process measurement markets.
Omega Engineering will provide good opportunities for growth in emerging markets, particularly China and Latin America.
21119.04 07 03 12 Proof 8 Financial Statements Governance Business Review
