15 Weir Minerals Division operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Minerals is the global leader in abrasive high wear applications of slurry handling and dewatering solutions, providing Order input comprehensive through life service and aftermarket support.
Mining is the divisions largest sector with aligned product sales 1,263m into other markets, particularly the North American oil sands.
Up 27% The division continues to extend successfully its market reach Revenue through adjacent product areas including wear resistant linings, rubber products and screening machines.
Collaboration with 1,216m KHD Humboldt has ensured a growing presence in high pressure Up 33% grinding rollers, a new and more efficient milling technology that lowers capital and operating costs on large mining projects.
Operating profit 214m The divisions leadership position is underpinned by specialist Up 22% engineering expertise and ongoing investment in wear resistant materials technology and engineered hydraulics.
This focus Sector input breakdown delivers high performance equipment in a range of applications that are critical to customer operations.
Minerals 76% General Industry 9% The division has a growing manufacturing, service and support Oil and Gas 7% footprint in all key mining markets, including South America, Power Generation 6% Australia, Asia-Pacific, Africa and North America.
Other 2% Market review Capital expenditure in the mining sector increased by over 20% in 2011, as miners broke ground on a number of greenfield Geographic input breakdown developments and brownfield expansions.
Activity levels increased South America strongly in South America, Australia and Asia-Pacific in particular, 23% North America driven by copper and iron ore projects, while promising progress was 22% Australia seen in North America, Africa, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
19% In contrast, activity levels in Western Europe remained low due to Middle East Africa 15% macro-economic concerns in the region.
Although the timing of Europe FSU 11% orders for large projects is unpredictable, quotation activity continued Asia-Pacific 10% at elevated levels throughout the year, despite falling industrial metal prices in the second half.
Copper prices fell by around 20% in the year but, similar to most industrial metals, remained above the incentive level required for new investment.
Gold prices gained 11% in the year and continue to attract investment.
Global ore production increased by an estimated 5% in 2011, again driven by increasing demand from China and other emerging markets, particularly for copper, iron ore and coal.
Average ore yields continued to fall as lower grade ores were developed, 1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are necessitating increased rock processing to obtain similar on a constant currency basis with operating profits volumes of refined commodities.
stated before intangibles amortisation 16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir Minerals Division operational review continued Sustained high oil prices supported increased investment and activity levels in the North American oil sands market, with new project developments and increased production across the market.
Demand for flue gas desulphurisation projects remained low, with customers in the US postponing investment pending clarity on the impact of new environmental legislation.
Achievements and contract awards Engineering innovation brought key new products and product enhancements to the market, including the Warman WBH pump, Multiflo CF and MF dewatering pumps, Warman mechanical seals, the Warman 750MCR mill circuit pump and Isogate Pinch valves.
Strong growth in sales of a full dewatering portfolio and ancillary products and services, benefiting from a strategic focus on offering a broader portfolio in all markets.
Major contract awards included the second largest order ever for pipeline transportation equipment for a Brazilian iron ore project, two multimillion dollar orders for Canadian oil sands projects and a multimillion dollar contract for supplying molten salt pumps to the solar power sector.
Successfully integrated Linatex into Weir Minerals global sales, branding and manufacturing organisation.
New service centres opened in Europe, Africa, Australia and at customer sites throughout Asia-Pacific, enhancing customer focus and service capability.
Operational performance The division delivered a record financial performance in positive conditions in mining and oil sands markets and through the successful execution of its strategic growth plans.
Delivery of the divisions strategic priorities of product innovation, extending GEHO pumps in place at the Anglo Ferrous iron ore service coverage and growing complementary product sales mine in Brasil, the worlds biggest pump station enabled it to capitalise on high levels of investment and increased production volumes in its end markets.
Global sales of a full dewatering portfolio nearly doubled and included the successful delivery of a dewatering mega barge to a North American oil sands project, an engineering first for the Group.
In its first full year within the Group, Linatex has been an important driver of growth in ancillary products and services, a key strategic focus as the division broadens its offering of mill circuit solutions.
In addition, annualised synergies of more than US$15m were achieved from the Linatex integration against initial expectations of between US$5m and US$10m.
The opening of new service centres in major mining markets increased local support for customers and enhanced the divisions opportunities to drive sales of the broader portfolio.
The division has a number On a like-for-like basis, excluding the impact of the September of key priorities in 2012: 2010 acquisition of Linatex, which contributed 108m 2010: Expand global production capacity.
Original equipment orders Continue to drive market share in ancillary grew 24% 23% on a like-for-like basis.
Aftermarket orders grew products and services.
29% and 16% on a like-for-like basis, benefiting from the strategic Take product innovation to new areas within focus on the sale of ancillary products and services with organic the mill circuit.
Build further on the collaborative successes of growth of 26%.
Original equipment orders represented 42% of the Oil & Gas Forum to develop new products total input 2010: 43% and 45% 2010: 43% excluding the and services.
The division secured orders from every major greenfield and brownfield project in South America, with greenfield projects Aftermarket input m driving strong demand for slurry and dewatering pumps.
Orders 735 800 were received for GEHO positive displacement pumps for iron 700 571 ore and copper pipeline transportation projects totalling 40m.
600 471 500 Elsewhere, notable orders included a 6m contract to supply 400 a range of pumps and hoses for a Canadian oil sands project.
300 Strong growth in ancillary products and services included the 200 100 supply of cyclones and mill liners to a Polish copper mine, valves, cyclones and hoses for a large Russian gold mining project and 2009 2010 2011 a 2m order for Linatex screens for a North American iron ore project.
Emerging markets accounted for 48% of input 2010: 51%, with order growth from North American and European markets rising by 35% and 57% respectively.
Like-forlike revenues increased 26%, reflecting high activity levels across all main mining markets throughout the year, excluding Western Europe.
Original equipment sales accounted for 42% of revenues 2010: 39% or 45% 2010: 39% on a like-for-like basis.
Operating profit increased by 22% to 214m 2010: 176m as the division benefited from strong revenue growth and a full year profit contribution from Linatex of 14m, including synergies realised in the year.
Operating margin declined to 17.6% 2010: 19.3%, reflecting a shift in mix towards original equipment deliveries, investment to support strategic growth initiatives and an increased proportion of lower margin ancillary products and service revenues.
A dewatering solution from Weir Minerals Multiflo in Amurskaya, Russia 18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir Minerals Division operational review continued Investment Weir in action The division has invested throughout 2011 in people, research and facilities in order to Customer align capacity to strategic growth plans.
Capital expenditure was 49m 2010: 30m Sibelco Australia and New Zealand processes while research and development spend increased by 28% to 10m as the division took and supplies raw materials for the Asia-Pacific a range of new products to market and continued to develop its technology position region.
It is part of the Sibelco Group, one for minerals markets and Oil & Gas Forum applications.
of the largest industrial minerals companies in the world, with more than 225 sites in Expansion of an existing facility in Johannesburg enabled the consolidation of Linatex 41 countries.
activities in South Africa with investment in heavy duty rubber presses, supporting strong sales growth of Linatex elastomer products.
During 2011, Weir Minerals Netherlands opened an assembly facility for its GEHO pumps brand in Taicang, China.
This facility is a key element in delivering GEHO s objective to enhance customer relationships by ensuring rapid original equipment and spare parts supply and excellent services for the installed base of some 200 industrial GEHO pumps in China.
Fifteen new service centres were added to the Minerals service footprint during 2011, in South Africa, Indonesia, Malaysia, Europe, the US and Australia, enhancing customer focus and extending opportunities to provide ancillary products and services.
The acquisition in January 2012 of Swedish service business Gema expands Weirs presence in one of Europes biggest centres for iron ore and copper mining.
Foundry upgrades in Chile led to production increases of 30% with operational The WBH centrifugal slurry pump onsite in efficiency gains and improved customer delivery performance.
New South Wales, Australia Weir Minerals has also added around 900 employees during the year to support Brief the divisions growth.
The Mill Circuit University was expanded with employees from Sibelco constantly seeks to use innovative around the globe attending an extensive programme in which they learn about the methods and sophisticated equipment in its entire minerals processing circuit, enhancing the professionalism with which the work of processing and supplying raw materials for the Australian, New Zealand and Asian division provides total solutions for customers.
Its Tallawang mine in central western New South Wales was chosen as the site for the worlds first trial of Weir Minerals new Outlook Warman WBH centrifugal slurry pump.
Market fundamentals remain strong, driven by continued urbanisation and Solution industrialisation in emerging markets and their increasing demand for raw materials.
Weir staff were onsite to oversee and assist This increased demand, coupled with declining ore grades, supports the continued high with the pump installation.
It was a trouble-free level of investment planned by miners over the coming years, although industry-wide process, even with the need to make up a base plate for the WBH to bring it to the same height resource and skill shortages are likely to smooth and extend the current capital cycle.
as its predecessor, a Warman 8 6 AH.
The Forecasts show global mining capital expenditure remaining above 2011 levels through changeover was completed in half the timescale to 2015.
Global ore production is expected to grow by around 5% per annum over the estimated by Sibelco and the pump functioned same period, supporting aftermarket products and services growth.
In 2012, our expectations are that mining activity levels will remain robust and we expect Result moderate growth in original equipment input, albeit the timing of orders for large projects The pump uses less power, runs cooler and can is hard to predict.
Market forecasts of ore production volume growth and a continuing be adjusted during production, something that focus on ancillary products and services mean that we anticipate good progress in could not be achieved with previous pumps, extending the production cycle at the Tallawang shorter cycle aftermarket orders.
Together with delivery of its strong opening orderbook, site.
When pump maintenance was required, this is expected to result in higher 2012 revenues and operating profits compared to Weir Minerals staff performed a complete rebuild 2011, while operating margins will stabilise at a broadly similar level.
onsite in one day, serving the additional purpose of training mine staff to perform the task in the future.
We had no hesitation in purchasing the pump at the end of the trial, said Matt Cosgrove, Sibelco maintenance supervisor.
Since the Sibelco trial, a further 39 WBH units are being trialled across global mining markets.
19 Weir oil & Gas Division operational review 1 Divisional results Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufactures pumps and ancillary equipment and provides aftermarket service and support activities Order Input principally for the upstream oil and gas markets.
The acquisitions of Seaboard and Novatech expand the divisions unconventional 865m and conventional upstream equipment product portfolio to Up 42% include high-pressure wellhead equipment and a broadened Revenue range of aftermarket pressure-pump expendable components.
The downstream business occupies a niche position in the design 743m and manufacture of centrifugal pumps for the refining industry.
Up 65% The divisions main operations are in North America, Europe and the Middle East with an expanding footprint in Asia-Pacific and Operating profit South America.
183m Up 61% Market review Sector input breakdown The North American upstream market experienced a second year of rapid growth, underpinned by increased horizontal drilling Oil and Gas 99% of oil and liquids rich shale formations, reflecting the attractive General Industry 1% economics flowing from an average price for WTI crude of around US$90 a barrel and ending the year at over US$100.
Average US horizontal rig count, a leading indicator of upstream pressure pumping demand, increased 22% on 2010, with the rate of growth moderating in the final quarter of the year, while greater operating efficiency resulted in an estimated 32% increase in horizontal wells drilled.
Oil and liquids rich shale drilling now accounts for over half of all activity in North America and US domestic oil production Geographic input breakdown rose to its highest level for nearly a decade.
Conversely, falling US North America 80% natural gas prices, driven by excess supply from the abundance of Middle East Africa 9% unconventional sources, led to an 11% reduction in the number of Europe FSU North American rigs targeting gas formations.
8% Asia-Pacific 2% Merger and acquisition interest in US and Canadian oil shale South America 1% assets increased materially in 2011, with national oil and major exploration and production companies purchasing acreage and service companies to increase their exposure to this fast-developing market.
Investment began in infrastructure aligned to shale markets with pipeline construction and petrochemical plant expansion.
Responsible shale development was identified by President Obama as a key part of the US energy future and a US Energy Secretaryappointed committee recommended ways to ensure the adoption of best practice across the rapidly growing industry.
Outside of North America, China, Poland, Argentina and Australia 1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are started to develop their own significant shale resources with on a constant currency basis with operating profits exploratory drilling underway while elsewhere there is growing stated before intangibles amortisation international interest.
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir oil & Gas Division operational review continued Middle East services markets benefited from investment in Iraqi and Saudi Arabian oilfield developments to increase production levels while downstream markets continue to be challenging.
Achievements & contract wins Accelerated upstream capacity expansion to meet growing market demand with a further US$75m investment now underway.
Rapid market acceptance of the new Destiny pump.
Completed development and commenced testing of Mousetrap, a more durable pump fluid end, due to launch in 2012, providing technological leadership in onshore completion operations.
Expanded service centre network in North America and Australia, increasing market share and providing improved levels of customer service.
Established a service operation in Iraq and achieved input of more than US$20 million for Iraqi oilfield service contracts.
Executed effectively ongoing restructuring plans in downstream operations.
Operational performance The division has again delivered a record financial performance, ahead of expectations, benefiting from rapid growth in the upstream shale markets and an ability to respond quickly to these trends.
During 2011, upstream operations added manufacturing and support capacity, introduced new products and extended the service centre footprint as it seeks to meet growing customer demands.
Good progress was also made by the Middle East Service operations, while downstream performance was impacted by competitive market conditions.
No contribution has been recognised for the two week post-acquisition period of Seaboard given the close proximity to the year end.
Order input increased by 42% to 865m 2010: 609m.
Upstream operations achieved input growth of 58% to a record 723m US$1,160m, benefiting from strong market conditions, higher operating intensities and market share gains.
This reflects a strengthening in orders through the second half with growth of 18% against the first half of the year with a new input record established in the fourth quarter as we saw significant forward ordering for delivery in the first half of 2012.
Demand for original equipment continued to be driven by increased utilisation, fleet expansion and a replacement cycle accelerated by longer duration, higher pressure applications while aftermarket demand is benefiting from a growing installed base.
Input across downstream and service operations fell by 5% with growth in the Middle East service markets benefiting from Weir SPM staff and equipment at a North American hydraulic fracturing site growing activity in Iraq, offset by a challenging downstream market.
Upstream The division has a number revenues more than doubled to 613m US$982m, benefiting of key priorities in 2012: from the strong opening orderbook, positive original equipment Delivering on capacity expansion.
and aftermarket trends and market share increases over the year.
Acquisition integration and capturing effectively This was achieved by the acceleration of capacity expansion synergy opportunities.
plans, additional third party outsourcing and greater use of the New product development.
Groups North American existing capacity alongside the opening Completion of downstream restructuring.
of four new service centres.
Operating profit including joint ventures increased by 61% to 183m 2010: 114m driven by the substantial increase in upstream activity and growing profits from the Middle East Service operations offset by a substantially reduced contribution from the downstream operations.
In addition, one-off restructuring and transaction costs of 11m have been expensed, including those for the Seaboard acquisition.
Operating margin was 24.7% in 2011 2010: 25.2%, with a positive mix effect from the upstream business and improving margins at the Middle East Service operations being offset by lower downstream margins reflecting reduced activity and one-off costs.
Excluding one-off costs, margins were 26.1%.
Investment Weir Oil & Gas continued to invest in its growth plans with capital expenditure of 32m 2010: 17m.
During the year, Weir SPM expanded capacity at the Fort Worth facility completing the US$40m initial expansion plans, while a state-of-the-art plunger facility was installed at Weir Mesa and further investment was made in the Edmonton and Houston operations.
A further US$75m investment was announced in the upstream business encompassing both additional machining capacity and office accommodation at the Fort Worth facility, further investment in Edmonton and the transfer of the Washington, North Carolina facility from the Power & Industrial Division.
These projects will be completed by the end of 2012.
Operating facilities are now established for the joint venture formed in 2010 with Shengli Oilfield Highland Petroleum Equipment Co. Ltd to provide high-pressure well service pumps and related flow control equipment to the developing shale gas industry in China, with the first pumps manufactured locally towards the end of 2011.
In December 2011, Seaboard Holdings was acquired for US$671m 432m and the acquisition of Novatech for an equivalent enterprise value of US$176m 112m was completed in February 2012.
Seaboard is a respected manufacturer of wellhead equipment with extensive North American service operations and strong product adjacency to Weirs existing upstream equipment portfolio.
The acquisition increases the divisions contribution from high-growth markets, broadens activities beyond pressure pumping and increases Weirs profile with service companies and end-user E&P companies.
As well as driving the international growth of Seaboards products through the Weir network, the combination of Weirs products and Seaboards field service capabilities will open up new adjacent markets.
Novatech, a market leading valve and valve seat manufacturer, provides a platform to significantly increase aftermarket revenues in expendable components across the pressure pumping market.
Weir Seaboard, Houston, Texas 22 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir oil & Gas Division operational review continued Overall spending on research and development increased by 13% to 5m.
In addition Weir in action to the development of Mousetrap, a quintuplex version of the Destiny pump will be Customer launched in the first half of 2012, a product specifically designed for the longer duty With the worlds largest identified shale gas cycles increasingly required in fracturing operations.
reserves, the nascent Chinese onshore oil and gas industry is an attractive future market A review of downstream operations was completed in the year to identify actions to for shale developments, with the Chinese improve product positioning and cost competitiveness in challenging market conditions.
Government identifying natural gas development Restructuring of Italian operations is underway while a new assembly operation will open as a key economic development goal.
In late in Poland in early 2012.
At the same time, investment in broadening routes to market 2010, Weir Oil & Gas entered into a joint venture and developing a range of more cost competitive products, positions the business to with Shengli Oilfield Highland Petroleum compete more effectively in 2012.
Begemann, a range of process pumps focused on Equipment Company and began building a the downstream markets, was transferred to Oil & Gas from the Minerals Division, well service pump manufacturing facility in extending the divisions existing product portfolio.
Reflecting strong growth, over 500 employees joined the division this year, with effective assimilation and training programmes a key priority.
Business capability was also expanded in the year to ensure the division has the appropriate skills, expertise and capacity to support higher activity levels and to embed a talent pipeline to support future growth and market needs.
Management training and development initiatives continue across each operation in support of Group-wide plans while senior management resources were added to the upstream operations to support future growth potential.
Outlook Weir Oil & Gas remains well positioned to deliver further growth.
Current forecasts Pump assembly at Weir Shengli Highland, for 2012 indicate overall modest growth in average horizontal rig count in North America Dongying, China with a reduction in gas drilling offset by the continued shift towards oil and liquids rich drilling.
Brief We expect 2012 original equipment input for SPM and Mesa to be lower than 2011 This new well service pump manufacturing as pressure pumping market supply and demand move into balance, lead times reduce facility would manufacture SPM pumps in and the effects of forward ordering in 2011 unwind.
This will be partly offset by good China for the Chinese market using the aftermarket input growth, driven by the larger installed base, continuing high activity technology and expertise of the Weir SPM business in Fort Worth, Texas.
The goal was levels and our recent and planned capacity additions.
As a result, with a record opening to begin manufacturing SPM cement and orderbook providing good visibility over the first half, we now expect 2012 full year frac pumps by the end of 2011. revenues from these operations to slightly exceed US$1 billion, somewhat ahead of our previous expectations.
Solution In late 2010 work commenced to locate and The outlook for Seaboard and Novatech is in line with our expectations at the time build the facility that would manufacture, of acquisition.
Further growth is expected in the Middle East in 2012, underpinned assemble and test the SPM pumps.
Almost by increased activity in Iraq and Saudi Arabia.
A modest improvement in the 2012 1m of capital was invested in the building, performance of downstream operations is anticipated.
machine tools and testing equipment.
A new Chinese supply chain was developed to source The medium term outlook for upstream remains positive with continued investment most of the components locally with support and associated infrastructure development anticipated in the North American onshore from Weir SPM in Fort Worth.
Responsible shale development was identified in 2012 by President Result Obama as a key part of the US energy future.
Outside North America, international shale Within a year of signing the joint venture development is expected to grow, with exploration already underway in the large shale agreement the local business in Dongying was formations of Argentina, China and Australia.
operational, with the first pumps assembled and tested.
Weir Shengli Highland is now well positioned to capitalise on the growing unconventional shale gas opportunities in China.
23 Weir Power & industrial Division operational review 1 Weir Power & Industrial designs and manufactures valves, pumps Divisional results and turbines as well as providing specialist support services to Order Input the global power generation, industrial and oil and gas sectors.
The division has locations in Europe, the Middle East, North 312m America, India, China, Asia-Pacific and South Africa.
Up 18% Revenue The valve portfolio was extended in 2011 with the acquisition of Weir International in South Korea, strengthening the divisions 307m emerging market focus.
Up 26% Market review Operating profit The global nuclear market, active in the early part of the year, 27m slowed following the Fukushima reactor incident.
New build Up 3% projects and non-essential maintenance and repair work were Sector input breakdown delayed with operators and developers awaiting clarification on the expected changes to safety requirements as a result of this Power 57% incident.
Demand for original equipment and spares across General Industry European and US thermal power markets remained subdued while 14% Oil and Gas growth continued in emerging markets, particularly India.
The oil 13% Other and gas markets saw good project activity in the Middle East and 11% Asia-Pacific.
The North American hydro power market saw good Water Wastewater 5% levels of activity with a number of significant projects started in the year.
The European renewables market remained challenging while opportunities across South America and Africa emerged during the year.
General industrial and municipal markets remained Geographic input breakdown subdued with unrest in Libya leading to the cessation of all North America project activity in February 2011.
34% Europe FSU 34% Asia-Pacific Achievements & contract wins 26% Middle East Africa Awarded breakthrough Shin Ulchin reactor contract for nuclear service control valves 5% with KHNP in South Korea.
South America 1% First full year revenues from Indian valves business Weir BDK more than 50% higher than the prior year period with increasing sales to the oil and gas and minerals sectors.
Developed product localisation strategy in China and India through Weir BDK and our Chinese control valves joint venture.
Secured large order to supply specialist sub-sea gate valves to major oil and gas customer.
Weir American Hydro secured several multimillion dollar orders from major North American power companies for rehabilitation and turbine runner replacement and related field service work.
Developed renewables presence in South America with a contract to erect 44 wind turbines in Brasil.
1 Statements in respect of divisional performance are on a constant currency basis with operating profits stated before intangibles amortisation 24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Weir Power & industrial Division operational review continued Operational performance During the year, the division has focused on extending its product offering and routes to market, leveraging its low cost supply chain and integrating its 2010 and 2011 acquisitions.
Good progress has been made against these strategic objectives, with a growing emerging market presence.
The division has retained its focus on global power markets, particularly nuclear and hydro and at the same time is targeting the growing opportunities in the oil and gas sector for many of the divisions products and fully participating in the Oil & Gas Forum.
The sub-sea rotary gate valve has been one example of this, with sales of the product to a broader range of oil and gas customers.
Order input increased by 18% to 312m 2010: 264m with Weir American Hydro, York, Pennsylvania a 63m 2010: 17m contribution from the 2010 and 2011 acquisitions and like-for-like growth of 1%.
Despite the South Korean contract success, nuclear input at 72m 2010: 82m reflected the broader global slowdown in new projects and maintenance activity following the Fukushima reactor incident.
Control and safety valve orders were up 34% benefiting from strategic investment in 2010.
Strong domestic markets supported positive input trends at Weir BDK with the ability to now package a broader range of valve types already achieving good results while Weir American Hydro saw increased project activity levels.
The proportion of orders from the power sector was 57% 2010: 61%.
Revenue increased by 26% to 307m 2010: 244m with a positive contribution from the 2010 and 2011 acquisitions.
Underlying like-for-like revenues were up 1% and impacted by The sub-sea rotary gate valve reduced power-focused maintenance activity and the cessation of work in Libya.
Revenues from emerging markets increased by 17% as the division benefits from its increased presence.
Operating profit increased by 1m to 27m 2010: 26m.
There was a 6.4m contribution from current and prior year acquisitions compared to 1.0m last year, although this was offset by acquisition related costs of 2.9m 2010: 2.6m.
A provision of 2.0m was recorded in the year for Libyan working capital exposures while further incremental investment was made in building business capability in support of the divisions strategic growth plans.
Operating margin fell to 8.7% from 10.7% in 2010.
While margins benefited from a positive contribution from the acquisitions, they were impacted by one-off costs, the Libya trading and provision impact and further investment in our strategic growth plans.
Excluding acquisition related and other one-off costs, margins were 10.6% 2010: 11.7%.
25 Investment The division has a number Weir Power & Industrial continued to pursue its growth plans with capital expenditure of of key priorities in 2012: 13m and investment of 2m in research and development as new product initiatives gained further momentum.
Improving cost competitiveness through increased product localisation in India, South A new facility in Marseille for the French nuclear business was opened in December Korea and China.
2011 and will consolidate previous facilities on a single site, while the construction Capitalising on a broader product range and of a new service centre in Montreal is well underway.
This will add capacity to hydro increased routes to market through a fully power operations, supporting the important Canadian market and providing additional integrated sales structure.
service and backup manufacturing capability to Weir American Hydros main facility Expanding presence in oil and gas end markets.
The manufacture of control valves through the Chinese joint venture Developing competitive advantage through commenced towards the end of the year, providing a cost competitive product for this product innovation.
The division has also announced plans to consolidate its US valve production at the Weir in action Ipswich, Massachusetts facility in 2012 with the Washington, North Carolina facility Customer transferring to Weir Oil & Gas providing additional manufacturing capacity to support Keokuk Hydroelectric Station on the Mississippi their growth plans.
river was the worlds largest hydropower facility The division added to its valve portfolio through the acquisition of a majority stake in when it was completed in 1913.
Recently, the July 2011 of Weir International, a South Korean valve manufacturer.
The business adds owner of the plant, Ameren Missouri of St Louis, sought to increase efficiency by upgrading and local content in Korea, expands engineering capabilities and provides strong links to refurbishing turbine units at the facility.
important Korean contractors who supply both the home and international markets.
Growth plans have been supported with the external appointments of key people to the divisional management team.
Driving product innovation is the remit for the divisions first engineering director and a divisional sales director will ensure the division capitalises on its broader product portfolio and greater routes to market and grows opportunities for Power & Industrial products in aligned sectors.
Outlook Current market conditions remain mixed with global economic concerns and ongoing delays in both new power plant build programmes and maintenance activities offset by continuing good opportunities to drive growth through our strategic initiatives and recent acquisitions.
The oil and gas sector will continue to offer good opportunities in 2012 Keokuk Hydroelectric Station, USA and we are hopeful of a pick up in nuclear activity as safety recommendations following the Fukushima incident are reflected in new build designs and generate increased service and aftermarket demand from the installed base.
The global power market Brief Weir American Hydro, based in york, outlook across the medium term remains positive given a structural shortage of power Pennsylvania had previously worked on in emerging markets extending over a number of years while growing environmental upgrading and refurbishing nine of the plants 15 requirements and ageing plant drives growth in developed markets.
The business was awarded a contract to An improved financial performance is expected in 2012 as the division benefits from design, manufacture and install two advanced technology runners at the power station.
a strong opening orderbook, a reduction in one-off costs and an increased focus on opportunities in oil and gas markets.
Solution Scheduled to be completed in mid-2012, the project has involved two years of engineering design, hydraulics research and testing and manufacturing.
The massive runners are more than five metres in diameter, weighing over 60 tons.
Result The site crew arrived in October 2011 to begin the disassembly of the first unit.
The new design has higher turbine efficiencies with a maximum power more than 35% above the current turbines.
