Directors report and business review Review of operations: Travel Review of operations: Travel The Travel business is focused on delivering value to shareholders through organic growth in its existing outlets, securing new contracts, trialling new formats, increasing average transaction value and making improvements to trading efficiency.
Nature of business and markets The Travel business trades under the same brand asthe High Street business and operates 561 units, mainly in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals and workplaces, primarily in the UK.
Of the 561 units, 136 are operated under franchise agreements.
Travel stores sell a more tailored range of products than High Street stores, to cater for people on the move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less time to browse than the High Street customer and is more interested in reading materials for a journey as well as purchasing food, drink and confectionery.
Consequently, there is alimited demand for stationery and entertainment products and the stock and format of each Travel store reflects this.
Due to their location and convenience nature, Travel stores are, on average, significantly smaller than those in the High Street portfolio.
At 31 August 2011, Travel operated from a total of 0.5m square feet of selling space, with units ranging in size from 90 square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 561Travel units, 142 are in airports, 125 in railway stations, 119 in motorway service areas most of whichare franchise units, 111 in hospitals and 32 in locations such as bus stations and workplaces.
32 units are outside the UK, for example in the Republic of Ireland, Denmark, India, Australia and Oman.
Travel has a separate operating structure and management team from High Street, reflecting the distinct operational and strategic challenges of the two businesses.
Travel stores are typically in higher footfall locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher average rents, with rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel isless affected by the Christmas trading period.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes toa summer peak in sales.
WH Smith PLC 8 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Performance 2011 2010 Change LFL % m m % Change Revenue 455 452 1 3 1 Operating profit 57 53 8 1 Group profit from trading operations and High Street and Travel operating profit are stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
Growth drivers Performance review 2010 11 Travel delivered a record profit performance despite The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion continued soft passenger numbers and the tough in each of its channels and continues to win new economic climate.
This demonstrates the strength contracts in airports, railway stations, motorway ofthe business model which enables us to grow service areas, hospitals and workplaces.
Despite soft 1 evenin difficult economic conditions.
Operating profit airport passenger numbers, medium-term forecasts increased by eight per cent to 57m 2010: 53m suggest that passenger numbers in Air will return to dueto higher sales, an increase in gross margin growth.
Travel is well-positioned to benefit when the andafocus on cost control.
We expect passenger recovery comes.
numbers to increase in the medium term and are The business continues to develop other store formats wellpositioned when the economy improves and such as specialist bookstores, a tailored workplace passenger numbers increase.
format and specialist stationery stores under the Total Travel sales grew by one per cent driven by new Funky Pigeon and WHSmith brands.
LFL sales were down by three per cent, togrow our international business using different reflecting soft passenger numbers.
Gross margin operating models: directly run, joint venture and increased by around 140bps during the period, franchise.
As at 31 August 2011 we operated 32 units duetogood category mix management and further in international locations, and have won a further 28. buying improvements.
We continue to identify furtheropportunities for growth in the UK and Competitive position and strengths haveopened 35units in the period with a further The Travel business is impacted by geopolitical 35planned for 2011 12. events, war and acts of terrorism, which have from In our Airport stores we saw LFL sales down three time to time contributed to a reduction in commuter per cent.
Air passenger numbers remain soft overall and travelling customer traffic and a heightened as expected.
Airports with a higher business travel apprehension around rail and air travel.
Closure of mix are performing better than other airports.
routes, both planned and unplanned, such as strikes Wealso continue to see a stronger mix of overseas and weather-related disruption, as well as other passengers coming to the UK versus UK departing factors affecting passenger traffic, can also affect passengers.
We expect these trends to continue this operating results.
year and have planned accordingly.
Medium-term, all Travel faces competition in its product categories the forecasts suggest that passenger numbers will primarily from other retailers in rail, air, motorways, return to growth and we are well positioned when hospitals and workplaces.
The growth of these recovery does come.
retailers may take market share from Travel and During the year, we opened seven new units in Air and havea negative impact on revenue and profit.
have plans in place to open a further four units in the Travel has significant competitive strengths.
Even in a tough trading climate we Itsbusiness model is made up of three elements: continue to invest in our estate and to grow.
acompelling customer proposition with a widely Forexample, during the year, after extensive trials, we recognised and respected brand, a strong track began a phased roll-out of self-service tills in our big record with landlords, and the ability to translate the airside units with the aim of improving queuing and fundamentals of the model to other formats and managing costs.
The business also has prime locations in each of its main channels: high levels of customer footfall: purchasing and sourcing scale: and an experienced senior management team.
Considering all these factors, the Board believes that Travel is well-placed to create shareholder value by delivering long-term profit growth and strong cash generation.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 9 Directors report and business review Review of operations: Travel Review of operations: Travel continued In Rail LFL sales were down four per cent overall In our International markets, the WHSmith brand withLondon mainline stations down three per cent andoffer continue to be well received and we have and regional rail down six per cent.
This trend, demonstrated we can add value and deliver improved showing London is a little more insulated from the performance in each location.
We continue to make current economic conditions, is one we continue to good progress in a number of regions, including seeand isreflective of the picture we also see in Air.
Australia, India and the Middle East.
On 13 October We successfully completed refits of 13 major units 2011, we announced a further 13 new units: two in however we continue to see disruption in a number Dublin, two in Stockholm, seven in Hyderabad and two ofmainline stations such as Kings Cross as station in Dubai.
Ten of these new units are in Air and, with refits continue in readiness for the Olympics in 2012. the exception of Dublin, will operate under franchise We opened seven new units in Rail during the year agreements.
We now have 60 international units either andplan to open a further five units in regional open or agreed, including a small number of units in railwaystations during 2011 12. rail, shopping malls and hospitals.
Over the last few years we have established a We will continue to grow our international business in strongpresence in the Hospital channel and have a low risk and pragmatic way, utilising our different consistently expanded our store base here.
LFL sales operating models: direct lease, franchise and in Hospitals were flat, being impacted less by the joint-venture.
Of the 60 units we have already opened current economic slowdown than some of our other or won, around 65 per cent are franchise, around channels.
Our understanding of the needs of this 25per cent are direct lease and the remainder are channel have also improved and we continue to joint venture.
improve our range and offer.
During the year we In total, the Travel business now operates from 561 opened nine new hospital units and we now have 111 units, including motorway service area franchise units units open, up from only seven in 2007.
For the current and coffee shops.
Five units were closed, primarily year, we expect to open approximately ten new units.
We renewed 43 In the Workplace channel we also continue to grow.
contracts and completed 27 refits during the year.
We opened eight units in the year and now have Excluding franchise units, Travel occupies 0.5m 15units.
We would expect to open approximately square feet 2010: 0.4m square feet.
eightnew stores in the current year.
Following the success of the Funky Pigeon brand online, we have started to trial standalone Funky Pigeon stores in high traffic urban locations.
At the end of the year, we had opened four stores and we plan to open a further five stores in the current year.
WH Smith PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2011 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Directors report and business review Review of operations: High Street Review of operations: High Street The High Street plan concentrates on building authority in our core categories, optimising margins, controlling costs and ensuring we deliver the retail basics.
Nature of business, market  The High Street business operates 612 stores with anextensive reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant UK high street.
At 31 August 2011, High Street operated from a total of 3.1m square feet of selling space, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet to more than 23,000 square feet.
High Street sells a wide range of products, which aredivided into four categories: Stationery including greetings cards, Books, and News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines and confectionery, as well as a small range of Entertainment products insome stores.
High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas, with other peaks at Easterandin August and September for the BacktoSchool range.
The online retail business is operated by High Street High Street has significant competitive strengths.
and sells a range of Books, Stationery, Magazines TheBoard believes it is well-placed to deliver strong andGifts through its website at www.
co. uk cash generation and create shareholder value through and personalised cards and gifts through factors such as its widely respected and recognised www.
brand: prime sites in key UK high street retail locations: high customer footfall: leading positions in Growth drivers its target categories: purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for the customer: and an experienced High Streets performance is dependent upon overall senior management team.
growth in consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector and High Streets ability to take Performance review 2010 11 share in its product markets.
The management team High Street delivered a resilient performance with an believes that, following the current slowdown in 1 operating profit of 52m 2010: 51m, up two per cent consumer spending in our markets, we should see on the prior year.
This was achieved through continuing areturn to more normal levels of growth over the with our strategy to focus on our core categories and longer term.
We continue to invest in the High Street rebalance the mix away from entertainment, whilst estate and to identify opportunities to open new stores focusing on optimising margins, tightly controlling in unserved catchments.
costs and delivering the retailing basics.
Cash generation in the division continues to be strong.
Competitive position and strengths High Street sales were down five per cent in total and High Streets competition comes primarily from other down six per cent on a LFL basis, in line with our high street specialists, supermarkets and internet strategic plan.
Excluding Entertainment, LFL sales retailers.
Online retailers offer customers access to were down three per cent.
our product categories via their computers, while supermarkets give customers access to our product We continue with our strategy to build on our market categories as they carry out their regular food leading position in Stationery.
LFL sales were down, shopping.
The growth of these formats may take but we achieved a good share performance in both market share away from the High Street business general and seasonal stationery.
We managed our andmay have a negative effect on the sales and profitgenerated by our High Street stores.
1 High Street operating profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest andtaxation.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2011 11 Directors report and business review Review of operations: High Street Review of operations: High Street continued Performance 2011 2010 Change LFL % m m % Change Revenue 818 860 5 6 1 Operating profit 52 51 2 1 High Street operating profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
stock tightly, given the trading conditions, which In Entertainment, we continued with our strategy to helped support further improvement in gross margin.
reduce steadily our presence in this category and we We continue to make progress developing the saw LFL sales down 55 per cent.
Our Entertainment category and are introducing a number of new gifting offer now focuses on a small range of DVDs in around ranges in time for Christmas.
These will include a new 230 of our stores.
range of Gadgetshop products, a brand we purchased During the year we delivered margin improvement last year, with all products sourced via our Far East ofaround 160bps.
This continues to be driven office.
com continues to deliver an largelyby category mix management as we reduce encouraging performance and we have created high our presence in Entertainment and rebalance the levels of interest and brand awareness through mixof the business to focus on higher margin effective TV advertising.
In the summer we also categories such as Stationery and Books.
Additional launched a funkypigeon smartphone app, which margin improvement has come from better buying enables customers to take a photo on their mobile terms and improved sourcing through our Far East telephone, insert it into a card, pay for the card and office which opened last year, from improved then send the card immediately.
markdown management, particularly in Stationery, In Books, LFL sales were down but gross margin was and from better promotional management, up year on year.
The books market continues to be particularly in Books.
soft, however performance varied by subcategory.
Non-fiction saw an improvement year on year whilst Cost savings remain a core part of our strategy Fiction and Kids annualised strong publishing and we have continued to make good progress schedules from 2009 10.
We saw encouraging share performance versus the general retail market as again this year.
wecontinue to implement our strategy to build our authority as a popular book specialist, providing our Cost savings remain a core part of our strategy and customers with choice, great value and promotions we have continued to make good progress again this like the hugely successful Richard and Judy Book year.
Our target at the beginning of the year was 11m.
We have continued to develop our presence By the year end, High Street had delivered 14m of inthe growing eBooks market and announced on cost savings, 3m ahead of plan demonstrating our 13October 2011 a new partnership with Kobo Inc. ability to flex our costs according to trading conditions, building on the success of our eBooks development for example, during the heavy snow before Christmas.
From the middle of October, we will launch Savings were made across a number of areas of the arange of WiFi eReading devices, all of which will business including variable costs associated with have access to over 2.4 million eBook titles.
entertainment, store efficiencies through improved News and Impulse LFL sales were down year on year use of technology and supply chain efficiencies.
but we grew our market share and gross margin was Afurther 11m of cost savings has been identified up.
The newspaper and magazine market remains overthe next three years, making total targeted challenging however we saw an improvement in savings of 25m between 2012 and 2014. thesecond half of the year following the coverage The High Street business now operates from 612 oftheRoyal Wedding, and a resilient performance 2 stores, which occupy 3.1m square feet 2010: 3.0m innewspapers driven by successful promotions.
We opened 39 new stores during the Wecontinue to develop the strongly-growing yearin line with our strategy to open in unserved bookazine category and our range now includes over catchments including the stores acquired from British one hundred titles with recent launches including the Bookshops and Stationers Limited in administration.
Ultimate Guide to the iPad 2 and 2011 IRB Rugby World Cup Official Guide bookazines.
2 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man.
WH Smith PLC 12 Annual report and accounts 2011
