22 Operational review Operating highlights Morrisons delivered a strong performance again in 2010 11.
2010 11 In an environment that was particularly difficult for consumers our continuing focus on quality fresh foods at great value made Strong turnover growth Total turnover increased 7% Morrisons a natural destination.
Store sales once again grew ahead of the market Like-for-like sales increased 0.9% below for Turnover analysis New space 15 new stores opened, including one Appealing to replacement 16 Netto stores to be acquired from ASDA Over 30 new stores will open in 2011 12 and reaching more Business initiatives IT systems replacement continues customers... New regional distribution centre development underway and planned to open in late 2011 Two food production investments earlier in the year are performing well New retail space Executive team We increased our selling space by 0.4m square feet during the Following Dalton Philips appointment as CEO, and the year through a combination of store extensions and 15 new store development of the Different and Better than Ever Plan, the openings, including one replacement.
Our growing confidence Groups internal management structures and processes were in our ability successfully to operate a wide range of store sizes realigned to ensure delivery of the Plan.
As a consequence, the is evidenced by our announcement in January that we had reached Groups previous Executive Board of four was expanded to a a conditional agreement with Asda to acquire 16 stores previously Management Board of ten.
A number of existing directors and operated by Netto, subject to approval by the Office of Fair senior managers were promoted to this Board.
These stores, which average 7,500 square feet, will be team was strengthened in the year by a number of senior external converted to the Morrisons format and are expected to open in hires, including a new Commercial Director, Strategy Director, the second quarter of 2011.
Along with the existing new store Grocery Director and Private Brand Director.
programme, we anticipate opening over 30 stores in 2011.
Turnover growth Trading Total turnover grew by 7%, or 1.1bn, with around half the growth Morrisons has responded to the challenges faced by the consumer coming from sales in our forecourts due to the worldwide increase by delivering a programme of price cuts and innovative, industryin oil prices during the year.
With petrol prices high, customers leading offers which have enabled our customers to save money looked for value, and as a result more customers filled up at and eat quality fresh food.
In a difficult environment this strong Morrisons.
Our store sales were again focus on quality and value has, for the fourth year in a row, ahead of the market, with growth across all regions and a record enabled us to deliver sales growth ahead of the market.
11 million customers visiting our stores each week.
Like-for-like store sales rose by 0.9%, with customer numbers up 0.2% and We have maintained our focus on the quality and provenance of average basket spend 0.7%.
our food offer whilst ensuring that we consistently deliver the value our customers demand.
As a result our total store sales growth of As we entered 2010, we indicated that total market growth would 4.1% and like-for-like growth of 0.9% were once again ahead of the be subdued due to the economic backdrop, and that our space market.
The strength of our offer meant that a record average of opening programme in the year would be somewhat smaller than 11.0m customers visited our stores each week, an increase of over that of competitors, following the very significant space expansion 0.5m 4.7%, although continuing pressure on consumer disposable that we undertook in 2009.
In this context, we believe that our incomes was reflected in only a marginal increase of 0.7% in the 0.9% like-for-like sales growth remained ahead of the market average basket spend in like-for-like stores.
Our total market share increased slightly, as expected, to 12.8% during the year, despite the large amounts of new space The rise in the price of oil, exacerbated by increases in fuel duty and being added by our competitors.
We continue to be prudent in continuing Sterling weakness, meant that consumers were paying our requirements for new stores and only approve investments on average 15.8p per litre more at the pump than last year, with that meet the required financial hurdle rate.
average unleaded prices per litre of 115p.
Overall fuel price increases impacted our customers disposable income by nearly Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 23 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 Weekly average customer numbers Millions 11.0m 439 stores 10.5m We opened 15 new stores in the 9.9m year, including one replacement.
9.2m 2008 2009 2010 2011 11% 67 % Operating profit has increased 67% of UK primary schools take part in year-on-year.
our award-winning Lets Grow initiative.
before pensions credit 400m, income that could otherwise have been spent in-store.
Our customers strongly approve of our support for British farming Our fuel volumes increased 4.8%, as customers shopped around through our own farm at Dumfries, and because we are the only for the best price in town.
Overall, like-for-like fuel sales were up major British retailer selling 100% British fresh pork, beef, lamb 18% in the year.
and poultry raised to British standards of animal welfare.
Our closeness to the source of our fresh products allows us to talk to Throughout the year the market continued to be heavily our customers with authority about the provenance and freshness promotional and Morrisons led the way in offering the greatest of our food offer, a quality which is becoming more important in depth and broadest range of offers available.
Our prime focus an increasingly health-conscious environment.
During the year we was on reducing the cost of everyday essentials and our offers launched our new television advertising campaign which continues on bread at 50p and fresh fruit and vegetables at 30p, represented the strong emphasis on the provenance, quality and freshness of the lowest priced staple products in the country.
The range our food and on our in-store skills, with food stories told to school and value of our offers, including our Price Crunch Week and children.
It has proved to be highly effective.
extended Collector Card over the Christmas period resonated particularly well with our customers, and they have visited our We continued to involve ourselves in the community through stores in record numbers.
further expansion of our award-winning Lets Grow initiative.
This has captured the imagination of the nations school children Sharp everyday pricing and a strong promotions programme by showing them where food comes from, how to grow it and by were a feature of Market Street, which again performed strongly.
providing them with a wide range of free gardening equipment Our unique vertically integrated food production capability including seeds, spades and greenhouses.
The programme, now supported by the unrivalled food preparation that is carried out in its third year, has been a huge success with over 18,500 schools every day in-store, allow us to be flexible and offer more great throughout the country, including 67% of UK primary schools, value, innovative offers on fresh produce than any other retailer.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011
