Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review UK defence market We continue to grow our position as the UKs leading engineering support services company.
In an In the current economic environment, the requirement of our major environment where engineering knowledge and skills customer to reduce costs whilst maintaining operational efficiency is entirely consistent with our business model in both the Marine and are scarce, and strengthened by the acquisition of VT, Technology and the Defence and Security divisions.
We believe this we have a workforce of signi cant scale and depth requirement will lead toopportunities for increased outsourcing of of knowledge that is highly regarded by our customers.
support activities as a keydriver to achieve its goals.
Across our businesses, in both the UK and overseas, we All three of the UKs armed forces are facing a reduction in manpower will seek to build on this position to deliver sustainable numbers overthe next five years although world events continue and pro table growth for our shareholders.
to make significant operational demands on them.
This dynamic is alreadyleading to significant structural reform and a requirement within the Ministry of Defence MoD to maximise efficiency and optimise support to frontline operations.
The introduction of the Defence Reform Unit reinforces this change as the MoD seeks to maximise output with reducing resources.
Following the General Election in May 2010, the Government announced it would be carrying out a Strategic Defence and Security Review SDSR.
The SDSR was published in October 2010 and sought to balance the current and future needs of the UKs armed forces in response to increasing budgetary pressure.
For Marine and Technology, the SDSR included a number of positive decisions for the division and removed uncertainty around some of thekey projects we are involved in.
The commitment to complete the build of the two new Queen Elizabeth QE class aircraft carriers was welcomed as was the decision to retain all three naval bases in the UK.
These decisions provide certainty of work for our Rosyth facility through to completion of the two new carriers in 2016 and 2018, at the earliest, and a continuation ofour role at HMNBs Clyde and Devonport.
The Government committed to retain the current submarinebased nuclear deterrent.
This provides a stable base for our submarine support operations and a key role for the division in the Vanguard lifeextension project, which has been estimated at a cost of 1.3 billion forthree additional long overhaul and refuelling periods.
For the Defence and Security division the cancellation of the Defence Training Rationalisation DTR project, provides significant opportunities forus to expand on our position as the leading military trainer in the UKfor all three services.
In addition, there is a significant pipeline of opportunities in the equipment support market where we believe wecan build on our expertise.
24 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Operational review Marine and Technology At 1,019.5 million, revenue growth for the Marine and Technology Revenue growth Operating return on revenue Marine and Technology Marine and Technology division was 5% benefiting from international submarine support % activities in Australia, Canada and Spain as well as from increasing activity in the Queen Elizabeth QE class aircraft carrier programme.
Equipment Support continued to benefit fromfurther supply chain 5% contracts for the provision of minor equipment to the UK MoD.
Naval communications contracts transferred into Marine and Technology following the acquisition of VT contributed 29million in the year.
These improvements were offset by completion of the Jackal all-terrain, high mobility vehicles contract which generated c 55million in 09 10 10 11 2009 10 and some change of phasing within the submarine programme.
12.0 11.7 Our Terms of Business Agreement ToBA with the MoD provides the framework for the strategic development of our core naval businesses.
We believe the outlook for the Marine In return for certainty of our naval support roles through to 2025, andTechnology division is extremely secure wehave committed to deliver savings of over 800 million to the in the UK and we are well placed to deliver MoDwhile sustaining or improving our overall margins.
In the first reporting year we have already delivered savings which are greater signi cant long-term growth overseas.
Through our naval base management roles at both Devonport and Clyde, now confirmed through to 2025, in partnership with the MoD we will be seeking to drive further efficiencies.
The ToBA also provides the opportunity for us to identify additional outsourcing opportunities which can both enhance the service that we already provide and deliver additional cost savings to the MoD.
The ToBA is a significant contribution to the MoDs overall costreduction challenge, but it also provides us with certainty and thepotential for growth.
In the last 12 months in our role as the Royal Navys major warship partner, we have undertaken critical deep maintenance on a number ofsurface warships.
The amphibious assault ship HMS Bulwark completed its first major docking period at Devonport and work onHMS Northumberland is underway whilst at Rosyth maintenance andupgrade work has been carried out on the aircraft carrier HMS Illustrious, the frigate HMS Argyle and the mine warfare vessel HMS Blyth and work is underway on the frigate HMS Kent.
The QE class aircraft carrier project has made significant progress in the last 12 months.
The new 1,000 tonne Goliath crane arrived in Rosyth as planned and will play a crucial role in the assembly programme for the two vessels.
As well as having responsibility for constructing some of the sections, we continue to play a major design role.
At our Appledore facility we are making excellent progress on the sections we are building with a number already delivered to Rosyth.
We expect the first major hull section from the other UK build yards to arrive in late 2011.
We have also completed the delivery of major weapons handling systems for both carriers in readiness for installation.
We expect to benefit from the decision to reconfigure the vessels for non-STOVL aircraft, which will require significant extra packages of engineering work to be undertaken.
25 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review continued We have now completed the first full year of the long-term Submarine In other international markets our activities are focused on specific Engineering Support Contract, where we have a key role developing long-term naval programmes.
In Spain, the S-80 submarine programme afull flotilla output availability-based support arrangement.
is key to future naval capability and is unaffected by broader economic Thiswillensure the Royal Navy has the most cost-efficient pressures.
To date, we have delivered major sub-systems for this through-life support.
programme and have successfully completed testing of the Air Turbine Pumps, built at our Submarine Pumps Centre of Excellence in the UK.
Work continues on the Long Overhaul Period Refuelling LOP R of We have also completed the concept design for weapons launch HMS Vigilant.
With the reactor refuelling process now complete the andhandling systems for the South Korean indigenous submarine project is expected to complete in late 2011.
Planning and preparation programme and we have been approved as a local partner for work is underway for the LOP R on HMS Vengeance.
We already have futurephases of work.
arole in the development of the new deterrent submarines but we believe the strength of our expertise in submarine support and our Our equipment support operations continue to provide engineering ownership of unique naval nuclear infrastructure will provide support for a number of key assets, as well as procurement and logistics opportunities for enhancing our long-term role in this programme.
support to all three services.
During 2010 11 we were down selected as sole industry bidder for the MoDs Maritime Equipment Transformation During the year we have also undertaken a number of in-service programme.
This contract is expected to be worth in the order of maintenance packages on the UK submarine fleet including the first 300million over 10 years and is the first part of the MoDs extensive in-service maintenance package for HMS Astute.
The SDSR confirmed programme to improve overall procurement and supply chain that seven Astute class submarines will be built and we already have management.
akey role in this programme to design and deliver the weapons handling and discharge systems.
To date we have completed systems During the year, the MoD has continued to progress the Submarine deliveries to the fourth Astute Class submarine and have an early order Dismantling Project and has identified our facilities at Rosyth and placement for systems for the fifth boat.
This keeps our Devonport as the two potential sites to carry out dismantling work.
workprogramme ahead of the overall Astute programme timetable.
Weare actively involved in the development of this project and would expect to see further opportunities resulting from the strength of our In both Canada and Australia we are engaged in markets that remain naval nuclear engineering capabilities.
Both countries are progressing with gradual reform programmes for naval support that will lead to long-term incentivised Divisional outlook arrangements of interest to Babcock.
In the UK, as a result of our ToBA and through our positions on a number In Canada progress continues on the major refit of HMCS Chicoutimi of key naval programmes, we are well positioned to assist the MoD and good progress is being made at our facility in Victoria.
In Australia andRoyal Navy as they seek to reduce costs and improve operational we continue to develop relationships with the Australian navy and are efficiency.
In addition, there are a number of new opportunities where developing our involvement in their current submarine programme our skills, know-how and infrastructures will play a significant role.
through our weapons handling and discharge systems.
Inboth Overseas, we are seeking to build on our existing submarine positions countries we have pre-qualified to tender for initial packages of longinCanada and Australia to contribute further to their submarine term support work for surface ships.
We expect further progress on programmes as well as into surface ship support.
We believe the these and subsequent contracts during the next financial year.
strength of our business model will also provide significant opportunities in a number of other international naval markets.
We believe the outlook for the Marine and Technology division is extremely secure in the UK and we are well placed to deliver significant long-term growth overseas.
26 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Operational review Defence and Security The Defence and Security division, which comprises predominantly Revenue growth Return on revenue Defence and Security International former VT activities, saw revenues including the Groups share of joint % ventures, increase to 469 million 2010 restated: 88 million.
Underlying growth on former Babcock continuing businesses was 19million, or 22%, largely arising from significantly higher activity 434% levels in the Royal School of Military Engineering RSME contract, partly through scope increases and partly through programme mobilisation.
In addition to the extra activity at RSME, the division benefited from good performance on the Royal Navy Flagship Training contract and in the MoD green fleet and white fleet management contracts, 09 10 10 11 where additional volume supported revenues.
In general, contract 11.3 15.6 performance was excellent and this is reflected in the divisions margin performance.
We believe we are well placed to bene t as the MoD starts major outsourcing initiatives The two major Private Finance Initiative PFI joint ventures for the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA and UK Military Flying Training that align withour core capabilities.
Systems UKMFTS saw the completion of the Main Operating Base MOB phases of both sub-contracts with associated revenues of 26 million.
As both contracts move into the service delivery phase in2011 12, the Groups share of revenues from the joint ventures, which totalled 37 million in 2010 11, are expected to increase while sub-contract revenues and margins decline.
RAF multi activity contract revenues remained broadly stable.
Activities on these two joint ventures have continued to make good progress and are performing in line with our expectations.
The UKMFTS effort has been in support of Advanced Jet Training and Rear Crew Training.
Following the practical completion of the construction phase in August 2010, the Advanced Jet Training AJT programme based at RAF Valley, Anglesey, has successfully achieved itsReady for Training Use milestone sign off thus allowing occupation of the facility and the start of operations in support of fast jet pilot training.
Our responsibility has now moved to focus on the delivery of through life maintenance for the remaining 22 years of the PFI contract.
Similar success has been achieved with the Rear Crew Training element of the UKMFTS programme.
The project involved therefurbishment of facilities at two sites: RAF Barkston Heath in Lincolnshire and RNAS Culdrose, Cornwall.
The facilities were certified as Ready for Training Use in March 2011 and were occupied in April 2011, when long-term support for the facility began.
The construction phase for the Main Operating Base MOB in support of the FSTA programme was completed by the end of March 2011 and AirTanker Services and the RAF teams occupied the facility in May2011.
A key component in the delivery of the service is the Communications Information System CIS at the heart of the operation.
Development, delivery and integration of the CIS to support occupancy of the MOB in May 2011 and the programme has continued to meet the delivery milestones.
27 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review continued The airfield and operational support contracts continue to perform Further outsourcing of individual training offers the MoD a proven well.
Under the Hawk IOS and AJT contracts we supported 88 aircraft to routeto achieving improved service delivered at reduced cost deliver over 17,000 flying hours.
At RAF Linton-on-Ouse we supported and wetherefore expect the MoD to bring a number of competitions 52 Tucano aircraft to deliver over 10,000 flying hours and our own fleet tomarket.
Our extensive footprint in this area, combined with our of 119 Grob 115e Tutor aircraft delivered over 39,000 flying hours to understanding of our customers ethos, positions us well for future the Light Aircraft Flying Task contract.
New business activity has focused on the next generation of contracts Our Flagship training and facilities management contract continues to deliver fixed wing flying training capability to UKMFTS.
We have to perform extremely well, customer relations remain strong and we formed a consortium with BAE Systems, Pilatus and GAMA to bid this continue to achieve high standards, with an excelling SRT scorethis programme.
As our RAF customer looks to find efficiencies arising from year.
Similarly, our International Training contracts continue toperform the impact of SDSR we anticipate further opportunities to support in line with the expectations of our customers.
Significant investment aircraft and equipment capitalising upon our existing position within has supported the development of thought leadership programmes the military flying training system.
with the Royal Navy to ensure a modern training environment is maintained.
This has also been supported by the installation of Learning Our training and support operations continue to deliver high levels Content Management Systems, Coaching Programmes, and Capability of service across all contracts and this year the MoDs Supplier Relations Management Systems across all contracts.
Team SRT have evaluated contract performance as excelling.
Building upon our extensive knowledge and success of delivering Our contract for the provision of construction vehicles to the Royal crewtraining to international navies, we have secured a multi-million Engineers now delivers over 2,000 vehicles on demand across the pound training contract from STX OSV Brattvaag who are contracted world in support of training and operational activities.
During the year to build three special purpose vessels for an international client.
we won a service extension to provide maintenance and repair of those Thepackage will provide training for the crews and base maintainers vehicles on operations through a permanent maintenance unit based ofeach vessel.
The training being delivered by Flagship includes English in Camp Bastion, Afghanistan.
language, salvage, rescue, towing, fire fighting and pollution prevention.
We also manage some 15,000 white fleet vehicles and a further 600 armoured and patrol vehicles on behalf of the MoD.
This experience Flagship has been selected as Preferred bidder by the Royal Navy for the leaves us well placed as the MoD reviews outsourcing options to deliver Fleet Outsourced Activities Project FOAP.
The contract is for an initial efficient support across its entire fleet of vehicles numbering around period of six years and requires the provision of a variety of activities 80,000 assets.
including the instructional delivery, training design and training support.
The contract has an initial value of c 90 million.
At RSME we have concluded the second year of operation with a number of significant milestones being achieved.
Three new buildings Discussions with our customer on alternative solutions for the DTR have been delivered and we have also begun transformation of the programme are progressing well, and we expect to see further student training using modern learning techniques and are working interimextensions to our training and FM contracts awarded whilst closely with the customerto implement these improved processes.
asustainable and long-term solution is formulated.
Initial pilots have demonstrated that we can deliver additional value to our customer byleading their training transformation.
The SDSR and CSR are forcing the Royal Navy to make tough spending decisions and we are focused on offering solutions and potential We have also been awarded a contract extension to provide army training scenarios, which will leave us well placed to secure future training services at Bordon and Arborfield, through to 31 March 2012 at outsourcing business.
a value of c 19 million, and have been selected as Preferred Bidder for the Training Establishment Support Contract for Bordon and Arborfield, Divisional outlook which is worth c 22 million over four years starting on 1 August 2011 and will provide support to training at both sites.
At Bovington we have The MoD has already started major outsourcing initiatives that align continued to successfully deliver training for tracked vehicle drivers and with Babcocks core capabilities and we believe we are well placed to maintainers alongside fleet availability management of over 300 of the benefit from these.
Following SDSR and the cancellation of the Defence armoured and patrol vehicles.
Training Rationalisation project DTR, the MoD is finalising its approach to training and support solutions for both its vehicle fleets and aircraft, areas where we have a demonstrable track record of delivering efficiencies.
In addition, these programmes will encompass estate rationalisation asthe MoD seeks to reduce the number of sites on which it operates.
This will provide further opportunities for us to leverage our current infrastructure projects.
28 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts Support Services market Support Services The current economic climate continues to constrain public and private Revenue growth Return on revenue Support Services Support Services sector budgets.
The Comprehensive Spending Review CSR was % broadly positive for the Support Services division and has highlighted a number of areas where spending will be protected and prioritised focusing on achieving greater efficiencies or improvements in service.
38% As a result we believe our capabilities will be in increasing demand as our customers seek greater support.
Across our business we have akeen focus delivering value for our customers, supporting them to deliver more against a constrained funding background, and focusing on activities with technical demands 09 10 10 11 and a clear need for client partnering to succeed.
We can achieve 5.2 8.4 this in three ways: through continued enhancement of existing contracts, by extending our customer relationships offering a broader We remain con dent that our range of services and by seeking to create new opportunities in five key markets provide signi cant long-term growth markets.
Energy After some years of financial constraint, the UK nuclear decommissioning market is now starting to ease with a good pipelineof opportunities becoming visible.
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA achieved a positive outcome from the Governments recent Spending Review and secured an average of3 billion funding for the next four years.
This work involves the dismantling of redundant nuclear reactors and the clean-up of radioactive waste at sites throughout the UK, is an essential stage ahead of the new nuclear build programme.
Through the acquisitions of both UKAEA Ltd and VT our skills have been enhanced and we now execute some of the most challenging decommissioning projects in the UK.
We estimate our current project work along with our site management work totals around 9% of the addressable market in the UK.
Babcock is one of two leading service providers in the UK power transmission sector.
In a market where specialist skills and knowledge are rare and in high demand, we have a team of highly skilled engineers and technicians able to deliver the design, construction and refurbishment of high voltage overhead power lines and related infrastructure.
The UKs electricity networks are undergoing a substantial period of investment as the country seeks to meet challenging climate change targets and address a potentially significant increase in energy demand.
Current projections indicate investment of up to 3.2 billion will be required to upgrade and renew the current ageing infrastructure, provide connections for renewable generation and provide smarter grids to ensure that the demand for electricity can be met.
National Grid, is leading this investment programme andduring 2010 11 completed a rights issue, raising 3.2 billion to funda significant increase in its UK capital programme which will total 22 billion over a five year period.
As a key partner in the National Grids Energy Alliance West, this increased investment will create good opportunities for the division.
29 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review continued Mobile assets Central and local government property Babcock works with customers in both the public and private sector Babcock has significant experience in strategic asset management, to provide comprehensive support for the management and operation estates and property management, hard and soft facilities oflarge, complex mobile asset fleets, vital to their core operations.
management and supply chain management working extensively with government agencies, local authorities and the education sector.
As our customers face increasing pressure to lower costs and minimise Our public sector customers have severely constrained budgets so disruption to essential activities, we have established a track record todrive efficiency and raise standards they are increasingly looking of improving the availability of assets whilst reducing total through-life tooutsource services.
Our independence and desire to actively support and integrate our customers primary business activities enables ustodifferentiate A number of significant strategic government property opportunities from traditional competitors such as leasing companies and are coming to the market which include the consolidation equipment manufacturers.
ofcontracting arrangements within central and local government aswell as further outsourcing of services.
With an established position in MoD estate management, we are seeking to increase our market Education share in this sector.
Large scale changes are taking place across the education landscape creating opportunities for our education business.
Service providers Operational review have to respond to cuts in local authority funding and increased devolvement of powers to individual schools.
We have developed The integration of VT businesses and subsequent restructuring has agood track record, developing an innovative way of working with progressed rapidly and smoothly, and as result the distinction between schools andlocal authorities to deliver outstanding educational results revenue from pre-acquisition activities has become less precise.
The appetite for outsourcing is However, of total Support Services revenue, including the Groups share increasingly strong and the pipeline for schools improvement services of joint ventures, of 946.6 million for the year, approximately 269 is growing.
million was from former VT businesses, leaving approximately 9 million or 1 % representing year-on-year reduction in the old Babcock businesses.
Operating return on revenue at 8.4% continued to improve Training during the second half of the year as merger benefits were captured The UK apprenticeship training market remains strong.
As part and good contract performance was recognised.
of Budget 2011, the Chancellor of the Exchequer announced a 180 million package for 50,000 extra apprenticeship places: this equates to the delivery of atleast 250,000 more apprenticeships over the next four years.
Thisisin addition to the existing c 270,000 apprentices on programmeper annum.
Babcock delivers around 10% of all UK apprenticeships and is the largest provider of training in the UK.
In 2010 we accessed over 42 million of government funding on behalf of clients and learners, making us the second largest direct contract holder with the Skills Funding Agency.
Our core areas of operation are the engineering and service sectors.
Training suppliers in both sectors remain fragmented which, combined with Central Government focus on improving the skill base within the UK economy, highlights this sectorfor continued growth.
To complement our apprenticeship training delivery, we have developed a broader training capability and are now trusted by anumber of major customers to provide not just basic job skills buttraining for key business capabilities.
Focusing on the Aerospace & Defence, Automotive, Energy, Nuclear and Rail sectors, we aim to capitalise onsynergies with Babcocks core operating sectors.
30 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts After a slow start to the year in Nuclear, there were clear signs of an Our Alliance with Amec and Mott MacDonald delivering overhead line increase in activity during the second half of the year with a number of engineering services to National Grid performed strongly in the year contract awards at Sellafield and AWE contributing.
Infrastructure saw and we are working closely with National Grid as it positions itself for lower overall volume in the Regional Prime contracts as the customer major capital investment programme through the coming regulatory cut back on its programme of extra-to-contract works, however, control period.
Our Power business achieved zero major accidents facilities management activity at RSME and also on theBuilding Schools through the year with over 3.3 million man hours worked.
for the Future contracts increased.
Revenue declined slightly in Critical As previously reported, we have decided to exit our Waste operations Assets from programme slippage in the non-National Grid power and have signed a teaming agreement with Shanks to progress the transmission operations but activity levels remained high on both the Wakefield contract to financial close.
Once this has been achieved, the emergency services fleet management and communications contracts.
agreement provides a mechanism for Shanks to acquire the business.
Rail revenue declined year-on-year as a the High Output track renewals We expect this will be achieved later in this year.
Profits for the division benefitted from ongoing improvement in profitability in Rail, amidst signs of an overall In addition to new contracts mentioned above, we have secured improvement in the commercial environment.
Profitability in the significant elements of our existing contract base with an extension Nuclear operations has also remained strong.
toour UK Power Networks contract and successful rebids for the BAAbaggage handling contract 120 million over six years and There is a broad political consensus in support of the Governments Radiometrics and Calibration services at Sellafield 86 million over response to the devastating effects of the recent earthquake and 12years.
Further, we are now in sole source negotiations with the tsunami in Japan.
The UK nuclear industry also believes the BBCfor the rebid of the World Service contract effective from 2012.
Governments response steers the right course by not rushing to Throughout this year we have not lost any rebids.
judgement while ensuring that the lessons learned through an independent and comprehensive report of the facts, which is being Divisional outlook drawn up by the Chief Nuclear Inspector over the next six months, are fully applied in a proper way.
The utility companies involved in the UK We remain confident that our markets provide significant nuclear newbuild programme expect this to be achievable and long-term growth opportunities.
The current economic climate continue to develop their plans.
Over the past 12 months Babcock has is driving our customers to seek greater value and innovation and built strong relationships with members of EdFs existing supply chain our broad technicalcapability and customer focus places us in a strong and together we have positioned ourselves to support EdF Energys positionfrom which to benefit.
planned new builds at Hinkley Point C and Sizewell C. In the nuclear decommissioning market, our ability to demonstrate oneof the widest and deepest nuclear capabilities in the market is beginning to show with the recent award of the B41 contract at Sellafield with Bechtel, expected to be in the order of 120 million for all three phases through to March 2017, supporting the earlier BEPPS win, 140 million for Phases 1 and 2 also through to 2017.
The nuclear business is heavily committed to securing the Dounreay PBO contract to deliver the decommissioning of a site that we have been involved with since its original commissioning.
The Regional Prime contracts have continued to perform in line with our expectations with additional works only starting to come through in the second half of the year.
Both the South West and East Prime contracts have now been formally extended through to 2014 and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation develops the replacement Next Generation Estates contracts.
Building on our position as the leading facilities management partner for the MoD, in February 2011, we were awarded the 170 million, five year contract to provide services to the British Forces establishments in Germany.
The Education and Training business has continued to perform well.
Ourapprentice training operations have made good progress growing their footprint in the automotive sector with key contract wins with Hyundai, Fiat, Alfa Romeo and Ferrari Europe.
31 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operating review continued Operational review International With the addition of the former VT US business revenues of Revenue growth Return on revenue International International 196million, total International divisional revenues increased by 164%.
% TheSouth African equipment business saw a significant rebound in sales of Volvo equipment to the mining sector which drove a 51% increase in revenue year-on-year.
Power station outage support work and high 164% voltage line installation for Eskom were also seen to be more buoyant inthe second half of the year helping to push total revenue from SouthAfrica to 251 million 2010: 166 million a 51% increase.
The US business had good success in its rebids on two major contracts but competitive pressure on margins for Department of Defence DoD 09 10 10 11 business remains.
Theoiland gas pipeline design and construction 6.2 6.0 market was active, driving a 50% increase in revenues from Eagleton to 12 million 2010:8 million.
Foreign currency translation gains on like-for-like revenues were 26million 2010: 29 million.
South Africa In South Africa, the aftermath of the global economic crisis of 2008 09 continued to be felt throughout most of 2010, however for our business this was offset by world demand for commodities.
Ongoing commitment to excellence through service to customers has ensured that the division maintained its prominent position in markets served and as a result, during the year we were awarded Silver partnership status with Volvo Construction Equipment, one of only three international dealers to achieve this.
In 2010 we also added the DAF truck franchise to our operations and launched the heavy vehicle range.
We have continued to experience a good level of enquiries into 2011 which is encouraging for the year ahead.
Many new mining projects are coming on stream and existing mining operations are being expanded.
This has helped our Equipment business in the latter part of 2010 and should continue to provide opportunities.
The relatively high cost of finance and the very conservative approach by banks to lending has hampered local demand.
Parts and service revenue has grown during the year as customers chose to run their fleets for longer than normal, but it is likelythat, in a number of these instances, customers will need to startreplacing older machines, driving further increase in demand.
Southern Africas critical shortage of power creates large opportunities for power station support services inan effort to provide continuous supply through planned outage maintenance and breakdown services.
This is likely to continue unabated for the next 15 to 20 years.
The demand for power has driventhe need for expansion of the transmission line networks and, inspite of stiff competition from foreign importers, we have won significant powerline orders.
Throughout the downturn we have taken the opportunity to review and reshape our business, to strengthen our skills base and generally toprepare ourselves to take full advantage of the recovery.
32 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Business review Governance Group accounts Company accounts The business will be entering 2011 12 with a strongly improved Middle East orderbook.
Low interest rates and the current global demand for Despite the political unrest in many areas of the Middle East, we commodities are likely to stimulate investment in new mining projects.
remain confident about the security of our current operations in Oman The need for infrastructure investment in southern Africa remains and Kuwait and believe our target markets continue to offer a priority for economic growth in the region and we remain confident significant opportunities.
that such projects will come to fruition.
The outlook for the year aheadis encouraging.
We have a firm African footprint that will both Over the past year, through our management team in Abu Dhabi, we contribute to and benefit from the new spirit of confidence have been involved in active dialogue with a number of government onthecontinent.
departments and private organisations to introduce Babcock and the range and scale of the activities we are involved in as well as the USA strength of our track record.
Building on current contracts in the region and our significant expertise in the UK, we are looking at the following In the US, the defence business has continued to perform in line with key areas of opportunity: military training, particularly flying training our expectations, despite the competitive trading environment.
to complement our aircraft support roles: facilities management, TheDoD is reviewing its spending requirements and, as publicly stated, both in the civil and defence markets, building on our extensive there is a definite desire and trendto do more with less.
We have experience as aPrime Contractor to the UK MoD and Defence responded to these conditions bydeveloping more innovative Infrastructure Organisation: Education andtraining, again in both civil contracting techniques and integrating solutions using key partners and defence markets.
There has been further impact from the DoDs move to use small local Order book businesses rather than large corporates to deliver contracts and, unlike Since the completion of the VT acquisition, the order book has the UK, its moveto insource.
While insourcing has abated, the small remained stable at around 12 billion 2010: 8 billion.
Theongoing business preference has increased.
We expect this will drive a further strength of our order book reflects the constant flow of rebids and shift toward value added services and our customer will be looking for contract extensions as well as new contracts from the bid pipeline.
This provides us with excellent visibility.
We currently have over 65% In January 2011 we were selected as one of four contractors for of revenue contracted for 2011 12 and over 40% for 2012 13. installation of Command, Control, Communications, Computers, In a tough economic environment and in common with peer Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance C4ISR systems for companies, in the first half we experienced some slowdown in the theUSNavy.
The contract includes a three year base period with an number of contracts coming out to tender.
This trend started to reverse additional two year option.
The base contract we could expect to in the second half of the year and since the time of our half year sharein has a maximum value of $840 million and, if the option is results in November 2010 we have seen our pipeline of bids at PQQ exercised, the maximum contract value could be $1.3 billion.
pre-qualification questionnaire or ITT invitation to tender stage In July 2010, we were awarded a task order by the Naval Sea Systems increase from around 5 billion to 8.5 billion 2010: 3.4 billion.
Command NAVSEA to provide support for the Program Management Office for Naval Special Warfare PMS NSW.
This Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity IDIQ contract has a potential value of around $50 million over five years.
We have been providing professional engineering services and strategic planning support to NSW and other governmentagencies.
The Evergreen Unmanned Systems business acquired in the first half ofthe year has integrated into the US operations successfully, and hasenabled us to offer a broader range of services to a range of government and commercial customers.
