Our business Operating review Professional Services What do we do?
How we performed Programme and project management Order book Construction management Project design 11 1.6bn Technical services 7% Planning 10 1.5bn Consultancy Whats happened?
09 1.4bn Integration of Halsall in Canada was completed Recognition for excellence by industry bodies Revenue including JVs and associates Significant growth in Australia Award of first major contract in Qatar 11 1,645m Two large rail contracts in collaboration with the rail division 2% 10 1,613m Whats next?
Exploiting growth opportunities in emerging markets 09 558m andgrowth sectors Continuing cost and utilisation initiatives to ensure Profit before non-underlying items marginexpansion 11 87m 2% The success of our business relies on winning 10 85m work on the strength of our track record of 09 13m technical expertise and execution, while maximising staff utilisation to increase billable KPI hours.
We are encouraged by our robust order Billability book and market developments in higherBillability is a good measure of resource utilisation, and hence growth regions particularly Australia, Asia and profitability, in what is essentially a billable hours business.
Southern Africa and expect the professional 11 58.7% services business to remain resilient.
10 58.7% 09 57.7% Computes Parsons Brinckerhoffs total direct labour cost charged to projects divided by total labour cost of employees.
Parsons Brinckerhoff was consolidated for the full year for the first time.
Our strategy Professional Services is an area where we are targeting further Professional Services, trading under the brand name Parsons growth by acquisition.
Gaps in our coverage that could be filled Brinckerhoff, is a fee-based consultancy business.
Its success more readily through acquisition rather than organic growth relies on winning work on the strength of its track record of includepower and federal services in the US, mining in resourcetechnical expertise and execution, while maximising staff rich geographies and transportation in certain geographies where utilisationto increase billable hours.
there may be gaps inour skill set.
Professional Services is at the heart of the Groups growth In 2010 we identified a number of areas in Professional Services strategy.
Knowledge is much more mobile than downstream where there was scope for increasing profitability.
Over the past capability: so in growth markets where we currently lack a local year we have acted on this, reducing costs in several territories presence in construction, we look to Professional Services and, byincreasing our organisational efficiency although this effort often, Infrastructure Investments to provide access routes.
Some was partially offset by a drop in the volume of work in the UK.
of these markets are developing countries where our rigorous Wewill continue our efforts to reduce costs while also shifting health, safety and ethics standards make it difficult for us to ourbusiness towards higher-margin services and projects such compete effectively for work on the ground: however, we can asprogramme management, design-build and public private workethically and safely as a professional services provider.
We also aim to retain a higher proportion of grossrevenue by subcontracting less.
28 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Our marketplace Europe, Middle East and Northern Africa EuMENA Americas The UK business faced a shortage of public sector consultancy In the US, stalemate on the Transportation Bill has delayed the work following the Governments Comprehensive Spending commissioning of large, long-term public infrastructure projects.
The market was also weak Federal transportation funding is caught in the crossfire between inDubai.
politicians and is unlikely to be resolved until after the next However, we are actively addressing the opportunities presented presidential election.
We expect to continue working with shortby countries such as Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia, which are term extensions to funding that keep the level of spending stable looking to upgrade their national infrastructure significantly as part but do not offer the certainty of long-term funding for large projects.
of recently revised national vision programmes.
However, a new model is taking hold.
Local governments are Asia, Australia-Pacific and Southern Africa AAPSA implementing various taxation methods specifically to respond Australia is currently a buoyant market, particularly in the minerals tothe need for infrastructure investment as federal support is and power sectors.
Our healthy order book development there reduced.
Alternative means of funding are also developing such reflects strong customer relationships and our reputation for asPPP, with an increasing number of states 31 so far putting technical expertise.
In this difficult environment we continued to win work as a result Financial performance ofour strong customer relationships, track record and strength The order book increased in the year from 1.5bn to 1.6bn with infeasibility work at the early stages of potential projects.
reductions in the UK and the US more than offset by wins in the Bymaintaining stable revenues we believe we have gained rest of the world, primarily in South Africa and Qatar.
The impact of the acquisition of Halsall, increased revenue in The US power market presented opportunities in the year.
Our Australia, particularly in the mining sector, partly offset by revenue volume of work doubled, albeit from a small base, and we are decline in the UK, resulted in overall revenue growth of 32m, encouraged about the future.
The US team has also leveraged or2%.
itsskill set in EPC Engineering, Procurement and Construction The improvement in profit from operations is particularly delivery into New Zealand.
The divisions underlying profit from operations of We operate in Canada through our recently acquired business, 87m was ahead of the 85m in 2010.
Excluding the effect of the Halsall.
Halsall is giving us a good platform on which to develop additional 8m incentive income in 2010, underlying operating atransportation and power business: we have recently been margin improved from 4.8% in 2010 to 5.3% in 2011. selected for two transportation projects in the country.
The rapid industrial growth of economies such as China and India is driving strong global demand for mineral resources and Extracting for the kind of mining project expertise that we are already demonstrating in eastern opportunity and southern Australia.
Worldwide, investment by mining companies was from mining estimated at about US$150bn in 2010 of which US$8.4bn was spent on professional services alone.
Andthe market is still growing apace.
Building on Parsons Brinckerhoffs four decades experience in Australia, we now aim to build a global mineral resources business operating across coal, iron ore, and base and precious metals and integrating the broader skills available across Balfour Beatty.
The business has expanded its geographical footprint to Western Australia, building on the success of projects like the award-winning AUS$420m Jacinth-Ambrosia Mineral Sands Mine in South Australia pictured.
We are now making further inroads into Africa, South America and Asia by extending our existing relationships with mining companies going with them to support efficient, safe andsustainable operations at their other locations around the world.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 29 Our business Operating review continued Operational performance EuMENA Professional recognition In the UK, we have shifted our emphasis towards the delivery Parsons Brinckerhoffs world-class technical expertise and global ofcomplex and specialist solutions, and away from commodity reputation are significant assets for the Group both operationally services.
This approach has helped us to secure large contracts and as a key factor in differentiating us from competitors.
That is across a number of market sectors, including a significant power why we use Parsons Brinckerhoffs Go-To List rankings as a KPI transmission contract in the second half.
In parallel, a rigorous cost forthe strength of our core skills.
saving programme has ensured that we remain competitive in the challenging market conditions.
It was therefore encouraging to receive another crop of prestigious awards in 2011.
For geotechnology and tunnelling these included A series of high-profile wins in the rail sector has boosted our order aPlatinum Award in Engineering Excellence from the New York book for 2012.
Secured contracts include Northern Hub, where we Chapter of the American Consulting Engineers Council, ENR New are providing programme management for multiple infrastructure Yorks Regional Infrastructure Project of the Year award and New and operational projects, and engineering consultancy services Civil Engineers International Award for Tunnel Programme forthe enhancement of the central Manchester section.
Our rail Manager of the Year.
Jim Monsees received the Golden Beaver team also gained a place on the newly created High Speed 2 Award, the highest honorary recognition given to a tunnelling frameworks, through which the engineering design services professional, and a Lifetime Achievement medal from Tunnels willnow be procured.
While the UK power market remains slow, with few new-build Parsons Brinckerhoff was also named Professional Services Firm of projects initiated, we have picked up significant study and the Year by the Hispanic American Contractors Industry Association.
development work including an Industrial Emissions Directive study for the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, a Plant Americas Costing Study for the Department of Energy and Climate Change, In the US, transportation accounts for some 80% of our and a recently completed Transmission Technology Costing Study professional services revenue and the funding of transportation for the Infrastructure Planning Commission.
projects is crucial to the availability of work.
However, the contracts we won throughout the year demonstrate that despite the failure The UK highways sector is particularly depressed following toagree a new six-year federal funding budget for transportation, Government spending reductions, but we continue to win new individual states have found innovative ways to finance projects work.
Our new contracts include the Department for Transports andbring them to market.
Technical and Engineering Advice framework, through which we will deliver services across the road and rail sectors to the national We won three major contracts on the Los Angeles rapid transit government.
Other major projects in progress in this sector include system: Phase 2 of the Expo light rail extension of the Green Line numerous Olympic contracts, focused on the delivery of complex light rail to Los Angeles International Airport: and the regional planning, design and operational support services on behalf of connector linking the Metro Gold and Blue Lines with the new theLondon Organising Committee for the Olympic Games, the Expo light rail.
As the lead member of the Eastside LRT Partners Olympic Delivery Authority and Transport for London.
joint venture, Parsons Brinckerhoff has been providing planning, design and construction engineering services to the Los Angeles In the Middle East our work is shifting from Dubai and Abu Dhabi, Metro for the Eastside extension for 20 years.
These projects have where opportunities are currently limited, to other Gulf States included six street-level stations, two underground stations and a suchas Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
We see these as growth 2.7km tunnel through Boyle Heights.
markets which are integral to our expansion strategy and we havebeen mobilising some of our UK technical expertise to meet We led a team which was selected to provide project demand in these countries.
management, construction management and management consulting services to Valley METRO Rail in Phoenix, Arizona In November we were awarded the programme management forits five-year capital programme.
consultancy contract on a 5bn roads and drainage scheme in Qatar.
Under the 104m, five-year commission we will have overall In the power sector, the Coolidge Generating Station in Phoenix, responsibility for management and co-ordination of all construction, Arizona completed ahead of schedule and under budget was logistics and supply chain interfaces with Ashghal, Qatars public hailed as a success by all stakeholders.
We provided full design and works authority.
We will also oversee general engineering engineering support in joint venture for the fixed-price engineering, consultants for each of Qatars five geographic zones.
And Qatar procurement and construction delivery of the 500MW plant.
Rail has selected us as strategic programme manager for its Our expertise in sustainable structures and construction is an multibillion-dollar Qatar Integrated Rail Programme.
increasingly important factor in winning new business.
To ensure In Saudi Arabia, important commissions included serving as that we maintain high sustainability standards in our own activities owners engineer for the Saudi Electric Company SEC on and operations, we established a new Sustainability Council for our itsRabigh thermal power plant project.
This 2,800MW plant Americas business in 2011. isavitalpart of SECs plans for meeting growth in electricity demandand supporting major economic development.
Responding to an ongoing demand for additional specialist resources in the Middle East, many UK-based employees arenowengaged on projects throughout the wider region.
30 Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 Our business Power is a critically important sector for Balfour Beatty globally.
The nature of the challenge varies from market to market.
In Phoenix, Arizona, temperatures vary wildly from sub-zero in winter to a summer daily average of over 38C.
As a result, power demand also fluctuates sharply.
It peaks on hot summer afternoons when air conditioners are working flat out.
The new Coolidge Generating Station, forwhich Parsons Brinckerhoff provided all the engineering services, is one of the largest peaking power plants in theUS.
When demand spikes, it is designed to go from standstill to its full 512MW output in just 10 minutes.
That enables the local utility company to operate baseload Taking generation more efficiently.
It also enhances the reliability and flexibility of the local grid by providing back-up when the heat other plants are down for maintenance and when weather conditions reduce output from wind and solar sources.
in Arizona Peaking plants ability to power up rapidly enables utilities to bring more renewable capacity onto the grid without risking security of supply.
Sustainability features of the Coolidge plant, opened ahead of schedule and under budget in 2011, include systems to eliminate wastewater discharges and cut NO emissions x towell below present or likely future requirements.
AAPSA Looking forward Strong revenue growth in Australia and parts of Asia helped to Despite the continuing difficulties in US transportation funding driveprofitable growth in the region.
andconstraints on UK public sector spending, we look forward with optimism.
With 150 offices worldwide, we are well-diversified An alliance in which Balfour Beatty has a 35% share was awarded and able to direct resources to the markets that present the an AUS$835m 535m contract for works on the Footscray to greatest opportunities.
Deer Park section of the Regional Rail Link project in Melbourne.
We will play a vital role in the alliance, with Thiess and Sinclair We are encouraged by our robust order book and expect favourable Knight Merz, by combining our professional services with market developments in higher-growth regions particularly BalfourBeattys rail infrastructure capabilities.
Australia, Asia and Southern Africa.
Collectively, these positive developments are expected to benefit Professional Services and As part of the Well-Connected consortium, we were chosen to ensure that we continue to make further progress in 2012. form an alliance with the New Zealand Transport Agency to deliver the Waterview Connection linking two motorways in Auckland.
The4.5km link, including 2.5km of six-lane, twin-bore tunnel, isNew Zealands biggest and most complex road project.
In Singapore the Circle Line, the islands fourth mass rapid transport line, opened in October.
We were the lead consultant on11 underground stations.
Balfour Beatty Annual report and accounts 2011 31
