6 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review the Group continues to focus on the delivery of the same threepronged strategy of increasing volume, average selling price andoperating margin.
The Group ended the year operating from 205 outlets, having started with 185 and, with the benefit of a strong balance sheet, we are in a good position to increase our land bank and sales outlets in the future.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 7 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Background completions during the year.
The use of this selling aid, however, has fallen from 18% in the previous year, as the At the beginning of the financial year the marketplace Governments original HomeBuy Direct initiative came had stabilised, but a degree of uncertainty had been to an end in September 2010.
At 31 July, Bellway held created by the looming austerity measures to be 33.5 million of this type of asset on its balance sheet, proposed in the Governments Comprehensive which represents just under 50% of the original Spending Review.
The number of down-valuations deferred sums due from home purchasers.
received from mortgage providers was reducing and cancellations from customers who had reserved a new Operating Margins and the Cost Base home remained at around 13%, with no change to the The operating margin also continued to improve and level of incentives being offered on new homes.
Despite moved up to 8.5%, an increase from 6.7% in the prior the uncertainty, the challenge faced by the Group was year.
This improvement is the consequence of several simply to improve profitability and shareholder returns.
different elements but is being achieved primarily To do this a three-pronged strategy was implemented through a combination of a growing output from newly aimed at increasing volumes, raising average selling acquired land where gross margins are in excess of 20%, prices and lifting operating margins.
and also efficient management of the Groups cost base.
Sales Volumes and Pricing In addition, we are gradually trading out of the older sites with lower margins.
The new sites contributed The first six months of the financial year saw an average some 27% of our legal completions during the course sales rate of 80 homes per week, a slight reduction ofthe financial year and as this percentage increases compared to the previous year, but severe weather there should be a continuing improvement in the conditions before Christmas slowed visitor and sales operating margin.
First-time buyers, in particular, continued to face major obstacles in gaining access to mortgage With regard to the cost base, as the production products.
The strong brought forward sales position on ofnewhomes, nationally, remains low, competition 1 August 2010, however, enabled the Group to forwork remains high amongst our sub-contractors complete the sale of 2,332 homes in the first six months andsuppliers.
Whilst there are many inflationary and of the financial year, compared to 2,247 in the previous regulatory pressures at all levels in the housebuilding year.
Furthermore, our order book by 31 January process, our costs overall have not seen any substantial remained healthy at 402.3 million.
increases during the course of the year and this has helped to support the increase in the operating margin.
With the onset of the new calendar year and improved The majority of materials used in building a new home weather conditions, sales reservation rates began to are negotiated with national suppliers on a fixed price rise, culminating in an average sales rate in the second basis, typically for 12 months or more, and this helps half of the year of 106 homes per week.
This increased tosmooth out short-term fluctuations in material prices.
rate was supported by the opening of more selling Whilst labour rates vary from region to region, our outlets and, consequently, the number of legal strong order book provides visibility of workload for completions in the second half of the year increased by sub-contractors, providing the Group with a strong 10%, to 2,590, compared to the previous year.
As a result, the cost of labourturnover from 4,922 homes sold in the full year was intensive activities such as road, sewer and foundation 864.4 million, producing an average selling price of works have remained relatively stable throughout 175,613, up 7.6% from 163,175 in the previous year.
The increase in the average selling price was achieved by a combination of factors, including the completion of Looking back over the last two to three years we several high value developments in and around London estimate the cost of building an average sized home has where the average selling price was in excess of fallen by around 8%.
Challenges in future to the cost 250,000, and by a change in the product mix outside base will come in the shape of higher planning fees and London where apartments have been replaced by the costs involved in reducing CO2 emissions.
During higher value family homes.
the course of the year, approximately 1,000 homes had either solar or photovoltaic panels installed, and three In achieving this increase in volume and pricing, blocks of apartments were built with a heating plant customers were regularly incentivised, which ranged installed in the basement, fuelled by wood chip as its from simple discounting to the use of our part-exchange arrangements.
The latter was employed in 13%, or 630, Completed sales homes of our legal completions, which is 137 more transactions than the previous year.
The Groups part-exchange 4,922 stock, however, increased from 115 homes to 175 4,595 4,380 homes by 31 July with a value of around 23.3 million.
Due largely to the ongoing lack of accessible mortgages for first-time buyers, shared equity schemes have become popular in recent years and these 7.1% arrangements were employed in 10% of legal 2009 2010 2011 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 8 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information TEMPUS, HaRRow, MiddlESEx.
a development of 1, 2 and 3 bed apartments.
Number of homes on this development 158 9 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information 10 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Business Review Chief Executives Operating Review continued main heating source.
Such new technology does welcome boost to that divisions current average selling putpressure on costs and one of our main challenges price of 133,863.
Land previously held under option istomanage this process whilst maintaining product near Leicester was eventually granted planning approval efficiency and without negatively affecting operating for 200 homes.
All the aforementioned sites will margins.
contribute towards the 2011 12 financial year output.
Land acquisitions during the year continue to be subject Divisional Performance to approval by our Head Office team, in conjunction Many commentators talk about a current north south with the Regional Chairmen, and this process ensures divide in the housing market but our six northern that our margin disciplines are not compromised.
divisions legally completed 2,345 homes, an increase of At 31 July 2011, as a result of adding 5,406 plots, the 18% compared to the previous year.
Almost half of this landowned with planning permission has increased volume increase was delivered by the West Midlands to18,086 plots.
In addition, land owned or controlled division which achieved 500 legal completions in the pending a planning permission represents a further year, a similar volume to the North East division which 13,000 plots.
Long-term land, typically held under consistently achieves this level of output.
option, amounts to over 3,000 acres, where we now The average selling price of the homes legally completed have some 1,600 plots with planning applications in the north remained broadly static compared to 2010, submitted, awaiting the outcome of the planning process.
with the North East division having the highest average This land bank provides the Group with new sales selling price of 167,592.
Conversely, the southern outlets but it is unrealistic, given current market divisions average selling price increased by 13.1% to conditions, to assume that the sales rate per outlet will 203,973 but sales volumes remained broadly static increase.
To fulfil our growth aspirations, therefore, the at2,577.
The Thames Gateway division, following the focus has been, and will continue to be, whilst current completion of some high rise apartment blocks in the market conditions persist, the opening of more selling east end of London and Greenwich Peninsula, has seen outlets.
The Group ended the year operating from 205 average selling prices increase since last year by almost outlets, having started with 185 and, with the benefit 40% to 212,694.
Developments such as these benefit ofa strong balance sheet, we are in a good position to from a more diverse marketing strategy with buyers increase our land bank and sales outlets in the future.
from the Far East, in particular, being prepared to buy off-plan at an early stage in the construction process.
The Environment and Health and Safety Out of the total number of new homes legally Increasing site activity needs to be combined with completed, only 339 were acquired by housing minimising the environmental effects, with waste associations in the north, compared with 740 in the management continuing to be one of our priorities.
Housing associations are prepared to acquire Divisions work in conjunction with their sub-contractors homes in London and its suburbs over and above the to minimise waste and maximise recycling, and this year normal planning obligations, creating a more diverse we used 16,936 waste skips compared to 17,375 last marketplace, which does influence our thinking when year, which represents a reduction in skips per home itcomes to land buying.
Wherever possible we attempt to reuse demolition waste on our sites, typically under hard Buying off-plan is unusual in these current market standing or landscaping areas.
All timber products conditions and the Group has not only increased its suchas roof trusses and floor beams are procured work in progress levels on a number of sites to create fromsustainable sources, and underground drainage street scenes, it has also increased the number of systems are now being procured where the pipe work show homes by 13% to enable potential customers to is manufactured using 50% recycled UPVC materials, view our finished product.
thereby reducing the use of crude oil in the Targeting Land Buying manufacturing process.
The introduction of new building regulations has resulted in more homes being tested for Bellway ended the financial year in a net cash position air retention which, in turn, helps reduce CO2 emissions of3.4 million having expended 250 million on land by 25%, compared to homes constructed under and land creditors during the year.
The majority of this previous regulations.
expenditure was in the south, most notably sites at Stepney in east London for 350 homes and a redundant Whilst the grant of planning permission can be hospital in Carshalton, Surrey for 180 homes.
Further controversial within a local community, there are often investment in the north has also taken place, for significant benefits which follow as a result of signing example, a site only five miles north of Newcastle city planning agreements.
This year we estimate more than centre gained planning permission, on appeal, for 330 30 million will be spent on local improvements in homes.
A Premier League football clubs former training terms of transport, education and health care facilities ground was acquired in the North West and planning inrelevant local authority areas.
For example, at Barking permission has been granted for 80 detached homes.
Riverside in east London, in conjunction with our The average selling price of 400,000 will bring a partner, the Homes and Communities Agency, a Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information multi-million pound contribution was made to facilitate Outlook the construction of a new primary school and At the beginning of the new financial year the Group community facilities, which opened in September 2011. held 2,497 reservations.
In the first nine weeks of the A safe working environment for our employees, new financial year, which includes a typically quiet sub-contractors and suppliers is of prime concern.
August period, reservations are almost 11% ahead Inthis financial year I am pleased to report a 19% ofthe same period last year.
Whilst global economic reduction in the over three-day absence accident ratio conditions remain uncertain the Group continues on Bellways building sites.
tofocus on the delivery of the same three-pronged strategy of increasing volume, average selling price and Putting the Customer First operating margin.
Bellway has started the year with Revised customer care procedures were implemented 205sales outlets and, subject to necessary planning at the start of the financial year to improve practice, consents, we are targeting to increase this, and process and work methods and increase the level of consequently volumes, by up to 5% during the course supervision in relation to quality control.
As a result of ofthe current financial year.
The combination of these changes, greater communication now takes place product mix between houses and apartments is unlikely with customers after they have moved into their new to change drastically, but as new outlets come on to the home.
A new benchmark has been introduced whereby market we anticipate that average selling prices and we are striving to resolve customer complaints within operating margins will improve further.
Delivery of these sevendays of notification.
Furthermore, in an effort improvements, combined with a strong balance sheet toimprove our out of hours, seven days a week and healthy forward order book, will place Bellway emergency service, a new national helpline for our inaposition to further enhance shareholder return customers has been introduced.
We continue to employ an independent consultant tosurvey our client base and in our latest survey John K Watson totheend of June 2011, reported that 91% of clients Would Recommend a Friend to buy a Bellway home Chief Executive compared with 86% the previous year.
Hopefully, the 17 October 2011 new measures introduced at the start of the financial year will prove beneficial, resulting in a higher percentage of satisfied customers in years to come.
SpacE1, whitechapel, london Borough of Tower Hamlets.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information EvERGREEN EaST, lEEdS, wEST YoRkSHiRE.
an exclusive development of contemporary 2, 3, 4 and 5 bedroom homes situated at the heart of the leeds New Forest village.
Number of homes on this development 69 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
