06 06 Savills plc Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Report and Accounts 2011 Group Chief Executives review Review of operations The London prime residential business continued to build upon its Jeremy Helsby outstanding performance of 2010 and the UK Commercial Group Chief Executive business increased market share despite reduced transaction volumes in the market.
The US business continued to show evidence of recovery and Cordea Savills, our Fund Management company, grew significantly.
In Continental Europe, where our business is significantly transactional, markets were challenging during the second half of the year.
As a result of this we suffered increased losses in the region.
Despite this, the strength of the Group enabled us to increase our underlying profit before tax underlying profit by 7% to 50.4m 2010: 47.3m.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax increased 9% to 40.0m 2010: 36.8m.
Savills geographic and business diversity were key to achieving this result.
Despite a reduction in transaction volumes in a number of the Asian markets in which we operate, our dynamic Asia Pacific business continued to represent over 41% of Group revenue We have made good progress in 2010: 41% thanks to growth in our substantial non-transactional implementing our strategy of investing in businesses, particulary Property and Facilities Management.
Our overseas businesses as a whole represented over 51% both our transactional and nontransactional of Group revenue 2010: 51%.
The continued strength of businesses through targeted recruitment and international demand for prime residential property resulted in our selective acquisitions.
We are well placed, Residential Agency growing to 16% of total revenue 2010: 15%.
thanks to our core strengths in both the The value of our Residential brand and market position allied to our commercial offerings in the leading markets of the world are Commercial and Prime Residential sectors, to reflected in these results.
meet the developing needs of our worldwide client base.
Our Prime Commercial and Residential Transaction business revenues represented together just over 38% of Group revenue 2010: 40% despite the second half slow down in commercial Operating highlights volumes in Hong Kong, the UK and Continental Europe.
Continued strength in prime residential property: UK Our Property and Facilities Management businesses continued Residential transaction profits up 11% driven by strength to perform well and now represent just below 39% of revenue in London 2010: 36%.
Consultancy remained stable at 20% of revenues Significant increase in revenue 14% and profit 16% 2010: 20%.
from Global Property and Facilities Management business People with a 23% increase in total area under management Our business depends upon us delivering excellent service Profits in Mainland China excluding Hong Kong increase to our clients.
We therefore focus on recruiting, training and by 43% to 7.3m 2010: 5.1m motivating high performers who bring knowledge based upon their experiences, are capable of challenging established thinking Significant profit growth 38% at Cordea Savills, the and who can design and implement the solutions to our clients Fund Management business needs.
To achieve this we draw on the widest possible pool of Market share gains in Hong Kong and UK Commercial talent, irrespective of age, gender or background.
In what has despite the reduced transaction market activity and historically been a very male-dominated sector, I am particularly consequential reduction in profits pleased that this year more than a third of entrants into our award winning graduate programme are female.
Sustained improvement in performance from transaction business in the United States During the year, we have continued to focus on growth through New management team in Continental Europe took bolt-on acquisitions and the recruitment of both teams and individuals around the world.
Significant additions to our teams further restructuring action have been made across our business streams in the US, Completion of several complementary acquisitions of throughout Asia, in the UK and Continential Europe.
It is both businesses and teams to further extend service and exciting and refreshing to bring in new people.
However, retaining geographic offering and motivating existing staff is just as critical to the growth of our business, so I am equally proud of the fact that across the world The strength of our key Commercial and Residential market many of our businesses are led by senior professionals who have positions underpinned a strong performance for Savills in 2011.
We built their careers in this industry with Savills.
had anticipated a reduction in the volume of market activity in the For those in the UK at the beginning of their careers, I am second half of the year, so it was gratifying to see Group revenue delighted that Savills UK business was awarded the Times grow to 721.5m 2010: 677.0m, 7% ahead of the previous year.
Graduate Recruitment Award for Property, for the fifth consecutive Our Asia Pacific business delivered an excellent performance year.
It is a testament to the strength of our people that Savills also overall against the backdrop of slowing transaction markets.
won 2011 Property Agency of the Year awards in the UK, Hong Kong, Spain, Thailand, Vietnam and Shanghai.
