Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:16 Page 14 Business Review Review of Operations Risk & Insurance The Risk & Insurance group comprises our increasingly specialist retail Financial highlights broking operations around the world and our predominantly London Market based reinsurance broking, specialist risk and wholesale Total Revenue Underlying Trading Profit insurance broking businesses.
m m During the period, macro-economic conditions remained very challenging throughout the more mature markets in which we trade.
642.4 140.3 Trading Margin 576.6 129.7 This was compounded by a very competitive insurance rating environment and intense competition amongst brokers.
22% JLTs strategy of continuing to increase the specialty focus of all of its Risk & Insurance businesses delivered revenues of 642.4 million for the 2011 year, an increase of 11%, or 9% at constant rates of exchange.
The London Market remained particularly competitive but despite this 22% our businesses that trade in this market delivered combined organic 2010 growth of 7%.
Our Northern European operations in Ireland and the 10 11 10 11 Nordic region had a strong year and both businesses have recently been strengthened with targeted acquisitions adding to their specialty capabilities.
In Southern Europe our operation in Italy had a very challenging year.
Risk & Insurance provides broking and risk Action was taken to reposition this business and at the end of the year, management services for clients across an we combined it with specialist broker Marine & Aviation S. p. A. in return for a 25% stake in the merged business.
extensive range of business sectors.
In Asia, we continue to make significant progress, with revenue growing by 28%, or 29% at constant rates of exchange, as the business expanded its areas of specialism and benefited from the continued Principal lines of business successful expansion into the employee benefits sector.
In Latin America, all of our operations performed well, with organic growth increasing revenues by 19%.
JLT further expanded its footprint in the Retail region with the acquisition of Orbital, the leading independent broker in Delivering an increasingly specialist retail insurance Chile.
broking service to clients in local, national and Australasia had a good year with revenues up 16%, which was international markets.
principally due to the benefit of the strengthening of the Australian dollar over the period.
Trading in Canada was below our expectations and the senior leadership team has been strengthened there from the beginning Specialty of 2012.
Offering clients in selected industries insurance broking and risk management advice through dedicated The trading profit margin for our Risk & Insurance group was 22%, specialist teams with deep client industry expertise.
unchanged from that achieved in 2010, despite the investments for growth being made right across our business.
On pages 15 to 19 there is a more detailed commentary on the activities Wholesale and performance of each of our businesses in the Risk & Insurance Providing brokers in the US and elsewhere with access group.
to insurance capacity in London, Bermuda and Continental Europe through our specialist wholesale broker.
Reinsurance Delivering to clients an analytical approach to reinsurance broking and a wider variety of specialist risk management solutions.
14 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
