B usiness review 15 Operational review A positive year, especially when set against the challenging market environment.
Bezalel, manager of the Jupiter Strategic Bond Fund and Philip Despite a challenging market environment, we have continued our track record of delivering value to our clients and shareholders.
Matthews, manager of the Jupiter Growth & Income Fund.
We have also attracted experienced talent from outside the business, such as In addition to delivering on our strategic objectives in the short term, convertibles and absolute return managers Miles Geldard and Lee Manzi and emerging markets manager Kathryn Langridge.
it is critical we invest in our people and operations in order to ensure the business is best placed to meet its strategic objectives in the We continued with this approach during 2011, building out our highly future.
During 2011, we made investments across the business and implemented a number of improvements to strengthen our business successful fund of funds offering with two additional appointments and increasing the responsibilities of two managers by appointing and build the foundations for further growth.
them as lead managers of additional portfolios.
We also continued to progress with our objective of nurturing talented individuals and Fund management strengthening our investment teams by adding co-managers or deputy managers to funds where appropriate.
All of our principal The delivery of investment outperformance across our product range funds now have joint or alternative managers with appropriate experience and track record to run the funds in question.
remains one of our fundamental business objectives.
In the key three year investment period, at 31 December 2011, 26 mutual funds It was also pleasing that many of our less senior fund managers representing approximately 74 per cent.
of mutual funds, by AUM, had delivered first and second quartile investment performance performed well during this difficult period.
Our fund managers continued to achieve recognition for their performance during the 31 December 2010: 22 mutual funds representing approximately 66 per cent.
Looking across the shorter term year, winning numerous awards.
In early 2012, independent fund analysts Financial Express announced that 12 Jupiter managers had period of 2011 only, in a period of high market instability as discussed in the Market Review section our funds continued to been awarded Alpha manager status more than any other asset manager.
perform well with 26 mutual funds above median in the one year performance record, representing 82 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM Product development as at the year end 31 December 2010: 22 funds representing 63 per cent.
Our investment expertise is provided to clients under a single brand through products that are suited to the distribution channels and Jupiter does not have a house view as we believe that giving our markets in which we have, or can establish, a strong position.
In some years this may result in us not launching new products, but, fund managers the freedom to invest as they see fit within our risk control framework and their fund objectives results in better over the medium-term, we have developed a competitive and broad outcomes for investors.
However, the investment approach adopted UK and international mutual fund offering.
by many of our managers does mean that our funds tend to perform better during periods of market uncertainty, as demonstrated by the Following a strong year for product development in 2010, our focus in pattern of returns during 2011.
During the early stages of the year, 2011 was on building out existing product franchises and rationalising many of our fund managers took a similarly defensive view of products where necessary.
We launched only one new fund during markets, concerned that the risk of market shocks was increasing the year the Jupiter Global Energy Fund under the management due to continued sovereign debt issues in Europe and the US, of resources specialist, Derek Pound.
together with subdued recoveries in the US and UK and concerns over growth in other important economies, such as China.
Our hedge fund area underwent significant change during 2011.
Demand for hedge fund investments has been in decline for some This hurt performance in the early part of the year as confidence time due to the impact of the 2008 credit crisis, which had a remained high and investors continued to back risk assets.
However, significant impact on hedge fund flows across the industry.
Clients sentiment deteriorated during July as doubts over the ability of have increasingly shifted into regulated funds that are able to follow policymakers to resolve Europes crisis resurfaced, benefiting many a similar investment strategy and we have enjoyed considerable of our funds, including larger strategies such as the Jupiter Merlin success in raising assets in our UCITS absolute return funds.
Fund of Funds portfolios, the Jupiter European Fund, the Jupiter We have responded to this structural change in demand by Absolute Return Fund and the Jupiter Global Convertibles Fund.
The rationalising our hedge fund range.
Two hedge funds were Jupiter Income Trust, which has had some performance issues in successfully rolled over into products with similar strategies recent years, improved markedly during the year, particularly during during 2011 and at the start of 2012 we submitted proposals the second half as market uncertainty encouraged investors to to roll over our two remaining hedge funds.
People Jupiter is a people based business whose success is predicated on the skills and motivation of its employees.
As such, we continually seek to invest appropriately in our people, develop new talent and strengthen our investment teams.
In recent years we have nurtured a number of talented individuals in the fund management area who are now highly regarded in their sectors, including Cedric fide Fonclare, manager of the Jupiter European Special Situations Fund, Ariel Annual Report & Accounts 2011 16 Distribution Distribution channel development While we operate across a range of different geographies and Approach markets, each with its own characteristics, we seek to maintain a In our core UK market, distribution of any marginally complex consistent brand and distribution approach and structure our financial services product is dominated by intermediaries, which for distribution efforts on a product-neutral basis.
most consumers means turning to an IFA for advice on purchasing decisions.
Our UK mutual fund distribution remains focused on the During 2011, we made a number of targeted enhancements to our IFA, with our brand designed to reach both intermediaries and UK and international distribution efforts, either refocusing existing clients.
of our gross sales come from IFAs, either efforts or adding additional capability in new markets.
In our core UK direct or via platforms, or nearly 80 per cent.
when we consider that market, we repositioned our UK wholesale distribution team, in order life companies we deal with are often simply providing a different to boost resource in the wealth management sector, which we wrapper through which IFAs can buy our funds.
This has resulted in believe is likely to constitute a more significant element of the us maintaining our strong market share on platforms.
residual adviser market in the UK following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review.
Furthermore, our decision to introduce institutional share classes on a number of our unit trust funds during September ensured that our fund range will remain attractive to this We consistently rank in the top five in terms of client set.
sales through leading market platforms.
We also took steps to develop further our international distribution 8.0% #3 capabilities.
During 2011, we were able to attract net sales through a Cofunds combination of marketing funds with strong investment performance, 7.6% #2 such as in European equities, and bringing innovative products with well-regarded managers to wider audiences, such as Global Convertibles.
Alongside this, and following the appointment of a French public relations agency in 2010, we took steps to support our 8.3% #4 Funds growing presence in Germany, Austria and German-speaking Network Switzerland by appointing a PR agency in Germany.
6.6% #4 Looking forward, we intend to deepen our international presence in 2010 2011 both Europe and Asia.
For example, in March 2012 we opened a sales office in Zurich to complement our existing office in Germany: we have broadened the remit of our French distributor to include Jupiters brand is well-regarded in the UK market, once again Geneva and extended the registration of The Jupiter Global Fund to ranking in the top five.
We believe brand is, and will continue to be, a Hong Kong.
source of competitive advantage within retail mutual fund distribution, particularly in a post-RDR environment.
Sales We realised 0.7bn 2.3bn of net inflows into our products during Historically, our funds have been less well-represented within the UK the year ended 31 December 2011, predominantly driven by strong wealth manager segment.
We, however, believe that this segment is UK sales in mutual funds during the first part of the year.
Towards the well placed to prosper and will manage increasing asset volumes in latter part of 2011 as discussed in the Market Review section the years to come.
the challenging market environment as well as the loss of a single segregated mandate led to a reduction in net sales.
Our international mutual fund distribution efforts are focused on Net inflows outflows wealth managers.
We have tailored approaches according to each 31 December 31 December individual country we are targeting, for example with a local presence by product m 2011 2010 on the ground in Germany and a distributor relationship in France.
Mutual funds 528 1,886 Segregated mandates 96 359 Private clients 122 121 Investment trusts 46 Total 746 2,320 Mutual funds were the main product contributor with net sales of 0.5bn 2010: 1.9bn, reflecting net inflows into our Merlin Fund ranges and a first full year of our Global Convertibles fund, as well as increasing sales from our international distribution channels.
Jupiter Fund Management plc B usiness review 17 17 During the year, segregated fund net inflows were 0.1bn 2010: Infrastructure 0.4bn, driven by new mandate wins and additional assets from existing customers, but hampered by the loss of a single segregated We operate a single infrastructure platform, designed to support a mandate from an institutional client following a strategic asset growing business and its governance requirements while allocation change and outflows from hedge funds.
During the year, implementing operational efficiencies where appropriate, such as our hedge fund net outflows included the merger of our largest outsourcing or improved technologies.
hedge fund into the Europa SICAV and, in order to simplify our disclosure, we are reporting our hedge fund AUM within segregated We constantly review our infrastructure platform to capture mandates going forward.
Private client flows of 0.1bn 2010: 0.1bn efficiencies from economies of scale, outsourcing or investment were in-line with the previous year.
There were no corporate actions in new technologies.
This takes place alongside continual investment relating to investment trusts during the year and none of the across the platform in line with prevailing income levels so that we investment trusts which we manage reach the end of their planned can maintain its scalability and capacity to manage further growth.
Infrastructure platform development AUM After the outsourcing of our unit trust administration to IFDS in 2010, 31 December 31 December we closed our Kent office in early 2011 and relocated a number of AUM by product line m 2011 2010 employees to the London office.
The roles undertaken by those who relocated have changed from operational activity to monitoring and Mutual funds 17,219 18,418 oversight.
The overall effect has been to better match our cost base to activity levels by switching internal fixed staff costs to an external Segregated mandates 3,338 3,440 provider, thereby improving our scalability and efficiency.
Private clients 1,731 1,693 Following on from the change in roles within the Unit Trust Investment trusts 519 527 Administration area, from operational to oversight activity, we consolidated into this area the oversight responsibilities for our Total 22,807 24,078 SICAV operations into a single team, creating a single Mutual Funds Administration team.
The Groups AUM is predominantly made up of mutual funds, which In December 2011 we took the decision to close our Bermuda office at 31 December 2011 was 17.2bn 31 December 2010: 18.4bn, representing 75 per cent.
This followed a significant reduction in the administration required to be undertaken by the office due to the rationalisation cent.. We were the fifth largest fund manager of UK retail mutual funds by AUM at 31 December 2011. of our hedge fund range.
We upgraded the company wide IT desktop infrastructure, hardware and software, both in order to improve our current capability and This chart shows the breakdown of Jupiters AUM as at 31 December 2011 by investment ways of working within the business, as well as preparing the IT environment for further investment in the IT platform in 2012.
This is franchise, demonstrating a broad spread across strategies, providing a positive level of part of our continual investment in the IT platform.
diversification within our business model.
Following a review of our business continuity and operational resilience we are investing in additional dedicated offsite capability 2.1% 2.5% 29.6% and additional software for offsite working.
2.5% 3.7% 7.8% Fund of funds UK income European UK Growth 10.0% International Discretionary Emerging markets 10.8% Financials 16.3% ESG SRI Climate Change 14.7% Fixed Income Annual Report & Accounts 2011
