14 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Adjusted operating pro t m Residential energy supply 522 742 Residential services 264 241 Business energy supply and services 219 233 Customer numbers year end, 000 Residential energy customer accounts 15,881 15,978 Residential services product holdings 8,862 8,718 Business energy supply points 999 1,044 DOWNSTREAM UK BR ITISH GAS However, we cant ignore the economic But we also need an honest conversation Phil Bentley reality were facing in Britain household about the future of energy in Britain.
Managing Director, and business budgets are stretched, and, This means being much clearer about the British Gas as the long-term wholesale cost of energy cost of producing and providing energy to prices continue to rise, customers want to customers homes, the rising cost of green know that they are getting a fair deal and and social levies, the impact of rising Our vision for British Gas the best value for theirmoney.
demand in international markets, and the is simple: by deepening pro ts and investments the energy industry Trust in the energy industry needs to our relationships with our makes.
British Gas is the only energy be rebuilt.
Customers want simple tariffs, supplier to include a breakdown of customers through value for transparent bills and a fair deal on energy.
money, better service and Responding to this challenge, we announced in November a series of British Gas serves around 12 million innovation, we aim to be the initiatives, making it easier for customers homes half the homes in Britain.
This number one choice for energy to buy their energy just two simple tariff isboth a strength, and a responsibility.
and services today, as well types xed and variable and helping Service excellence is critical and will remain customers save money on a better deal.
at the heart of all our offers.
Our challenge as in the smarter homes and in 2012, as an energy industry, is to continue businesses of tomorrow.
to work hard to win our customers trust.
We are leading the way working with our customers to change British Gas for thebetter.
Full British Gas performance measures in appendix on pg 132 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15 Business Review also continue to lead the industry in In the competitive energy supply market DOWNSTREAM UK helping our customers reduce their energy it is important to remain innovative.
Our British Gas experienced challenging usage and in helping the most vulnerable partnerships with Nectar and Sainsburys market conditions in 2011.
Our free insulation offer remains have been highly successful, with over wholesale gas and power prices during available to all our customers and we now 4 million of our customers now enrolled the first half of the year necessitated an have over 700,000 EnergySmart accounts, on the Nectar loyalty programme.
These increase in residential gas and electricity a product which helps customers monitor new channels are delivering high value tariffs in August.
And although wholesale their energy usage.
Our social spend in the customers, with the Nectar scheme also prices fell at the end of the year, enabling year exceeded the minimum requirement helping to shape customer behaviour, and a reduction in residential electricity tariffs set out by Government.
We now have more customers are now submitting meter in January 2012, the longer-term trends over 500,000 customer accounts on readings online, moving to paperless billing remain upwards.
The UK also experienced our Essentials tariff and are actively and choosing to pay by Direct Debit.
warmer than normal weather in 2011, helping vulnerable customers claim British Gas also appeared top of the best compared to exceptionally cold weather buy league tables for online switching for more weeks in 2011 than any other supplier.
Our online platform is also proving increasingly popular with both energy and services customers.
In 2011, over 400,000 20million transactions were carried out online, more than double the number from 2010, with increasing levels of meter readings, payments and Annual Service Our insulation workforce has Visit bookings being submitted online.
As now completed 400,000 jobs, well as reducing our cost to serve, this achieving growth through change in customer behaviour is also helping to deepen the customer organic recruitment and relationship, enabling greater interaction acquisitions with the customer.
Our levels of customer service also remained high in residential energy supply and we were awarded a 4 in 2010 and the economic environment the Warm Home Discount, where we star service rating from Consumer Focus continues to be challenging, particularly have the broadest eligibility criteria of for the first time.
impacting residential services and any majorsupplier.
Against this In residential services, the number of The number of residential energy accounts background, our 2011 performance contract holdings increased by 144,000 on supply fell slightly, reducing by 97,000 wasgood.
to 8.9 million, bene ting from stronger to 15.9 million.
We delivered account customer retention.
However, the challenging In the current economic and political growth in the first half of the year.
However, economy is creating an adverse climate for climate it is important that energy suppliers the increase in wholesale commodity prices major consumer purchases, particularly in help to build trust in the industry, which is during the first half of the year and rising our central heating installations business why we launched the honest conversation non-commodity costs led to an increase and accordingly, the number of central campaign with customers.
As part of a in our residential gas and electricity tariffs heating systems installed was 15% lower series of industry leading measures we in August, by an average of 18% and 16% than 2010.
Despite this, we made good wrote to our customers, highlighting how respectively.
This resulted in an increase progress during the year.
The roll-over to they could ensure that they were on the in churn in the second half of the year.
In insurance-based products is now complete, best deal with British Gas, and we provide January 2012, we were the first of the major allowing us to offer a more exible range a complete breakdown of costs on our energy suppliers to reduce our standard of products, while the agreement we customers energy bills.
These are residential electricity tariff.
This 5% reduction reached with our service and repair important measures, coming on top of our once again placed us as the cheapest engineers in 2010 means we are able commitment not to raise prices throughout major supplier of electricity, on average, to meet increased customer demand the winter for residential customers.
Including share of joint ventures and associates before interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and  16 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review DOWNSTREAM UK BRITISH GAS for evening and weekend appointments.
agreement with Thames Water to This increased engineer exibility meant promote both energy and water saving that we were able to visit the vast majority products including solar panels, heat of our customers on the day they reported pumps, energy ef cient boilers, shower 470,000 a fault.
Maintaining a high quality of savers and free insulation.
customer service is vital and the contact We are committed to On new technologies, we secured contracts NPS for our services business grew to55.
encouraging and enabling with Nissan, Renault, Toyota and Hitachi In business energy supply, the number Capital to become the preferred partner for our employees to participate of customer supply points reduced by home charging solutions for their electric in volunteering activities 45,000 over the year, to 1.00 million 2010: vehicles.
We also completed substantially to support their personal 1.04 million.
This re ects our volume to more solar installations for both residential value strategy and also the challenging and business customers, with 2,400 development and help build market conditions.
Recognising the impact installations and 12.8 Megawatts-peak a great place to work.
on our customers, we will continue to MWp installed.
With the announcement Employees are entitled to take up to focus on delivering high levels of service of a halving of the Feed-in Tariff for solar two days of work time per annum to for each of our customer segments, at installations, demand is expected to get involved in volunteering activities competitive prices.
Our business services reduce, although falling panel prices of their choice.
division made further progress during the may help ensure that solar continues to year with the successful integration of the be an attractive investment for residential, In addition to volunteering, many acquired Connaught services team and business and public sector customers.
In employees are also active charity the average order value on installations up December we acquired the remaining 81% fundraisers and, in September, 34 16% on 2010.
Over time, this will allow us of Econergy Ltd, a market leader in biomass climbers from British Gas successfully to grow a differentiated position in this heating, while we continue to hold positions scaled Mount Kilimanjaro raising competitive market.
in a wide range of other technologies, with 134,000 for Make-A-Wish, our capabilities in biomethane gas, heat pump 2010-2011 Charity of the Year.
Health and safety is critical to the success installation and fuel cell boilers.
of British Gas and we have a good safety They elected to take one of the more record, with the lost time injury frequency We continue to lead the industry in the challenging routes up the 19,340-foot rate LTIFR falling by 48% this year and the roll-out of smart meters, having insourced 5,895 metre mountain and completed number of lost time incidents reducing by our metering operations and installed over the task within seven days by trekking 35%.
We continue to monitor employee 450,000 smart meters for homes and for over 10 hours on the final approach engagement closely, and are pleased to businesses to date.
However, we await to ensure they reached the summit.
see that absence and attrition rates were con rmation from Government of the The group which included British both substantially lower than in 2010.
We smart meter national implementation Gas Managing Director Phil Bentley were also recognised by the Great Places to programme and from the Regulator overcame a number of challenges Work Institute as one of the UKs 50 Best regarding its plans for retail market reform, during the week, not least the range of Workplaces, for the third year in a row.
before we proceed to full scale roll-out.
temperatures and climatic zones they Our focus in the social housing sector We continue to grow our new markets encountered, but also the possibility continues and we now manage a portfolio business, which now has gross revenue of altitude sickness.
Climbers were in excess of 275,000 homes and in 2011 of over 250 million, capitalising on our randomly selected from across the we acquired PH Jones Group Ltd, a broad range of expertise to take advantage business, with each required to raise provider of central heating services to of attractive opportunities.
Our insulation a minimum of 2,500 to participate the social housing market.
We are also workforce has now completed 400,000 jobs, in the challenge.
undertaking work on the Welsh Assembly achieving growth through organic recruitment Governments new fuel poverty programme, By the end of the partnership, more and the acquisitions of Hillserve Ltd and in addition to the Scottish Governments than 470,000 was raised by British ECL Contracts Ltd in 2010.
We have also Energy Assistance Programme which we Gas employees in support of children recently entered into our first af nity won last year.
Together, these contracts and young people ghting lifepartnership in the water sector, with an are expected to generate revenue of over threatening conditions.
200 million over the next five years.
co. uk Including share of joint ventures and associates before interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and  Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17 Business Review Overall, gross revenue in the period fell During the first half of the year, warmer to 12,319 million 2010: 12,730 million, weather resulted in reduced breakdown with higher average retail tariffs for both call out costs compared to the first half of residential and business energy being more 2010, but we incurred additional costs to WINNING than offset by lower gas and electricity complete annual service visits deferred Having won European consumption.
Operating pro t for residential from the prior year, as we had prioritised energy supply fell by 30% and for the our workload during the cold weather in Contact Centre of the Year operating segment as a whole decreased by late 2010.
Gross revenue rose by 3% to for two years running our 17% to 1,005 million 2010: 1,216 million.
1,504 million 2010: 1,464 million Cardiff of ce won silver in the re ecting a slight increase in the average Residential energy supply operating pro t large contact centre category number of customers and average prices.
decreased 30% to 522 million 2010: of the 2011 World Contact 742million and operating margin fell Business energy supply and services to 6.4% 2010: 8.9%, as the favourable operating pro t fell by 6% to 219 million Centre Awards combination of extremely cold weather 2010: 233 million while gross revenue and low commodity costs in 2010 fell by 7% to 2,702 million 2010: 2,907 reversed.
Average gas consumption million, re ecting the impact of much investment for the next phase of growth reduced by 21% and average electricity warmer weather and the economic will leave the business well placed for the consumption reduced by 4% due to the environment, partially offset by credits long term.
warmer weather and as energy ef ciency arising from improved revenue and billing As part of the Group-wide programme measures continue to deliver underlying processes.
As a result, the operating margin to sharpen the business and reduce reductions.
Gross revenue decreased to remained broadly at at 8.1% 2010: 8.0%.
costs, we are targeting substantial cost 8,113 million 2010: 8,359 million, reductions in British Gas, with absolute OUTLOOK re ecting the decline in consumption.
underlying operating costs expected to Our business model remains strong Consequently, despite the increase in retail reduce by 10% over the next two years.
and British Gas delivered a solid financial tariffs implemented in August, the average We have already announced some 1,800 performance in 2011 in challenging market customer bill fell by 4%.
In these current role reductions across the business, while conditions, underpinned by our scale, our market conditions it is important that we maintaining our frontline capability and service and our drive for innovation.
In focus on reducing our cost base and as high levels of customer service.
We have residential energy supply, it is critical a result of improved processes and close announced the cessation of our eld sales to maintain a competitive advantage, management attention, our bad debt activities, and the scaling down of our solar underpinning our ability to achieve charge fell 26% compared to 2010. business.
In addition, we have reached sustained pro t. In services, we aim to agreement with our employees and Trade Residential services operating pro t deliver double digit pro t growth, even in Unions on restructuring pension bene ts increased by 10% to 264 million 2010: an environment of low economic growth, and have implemented a pay freeze across 241 million with the operating margin achieving this through cost ef ciencies, the whole of British Gas.
These measures increasing to 17.6% 2010: 16.5% in a attractive customer propositions and will help the business to remain competitive, challenging economic environment, which excellent levels of service.
In business while also enabling investment for requires us to remain closely focused on energy supply trading conditions remain futuregrowth.
driving cost ef ciencies in the business.
tough, although operational improvements, opportunities in B2B services and PER 1.25P MILE We secured contracts withNissan, Renault, Toyota and Hitachi Capital to become the preferredpartner for home charging solutions for their electric vehicles 18 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Adjusted operating pro t m Gas 769 566 Power 254 205 Gas and power Gas production mmth 2,160 2,550 Liquids production mmboe 12.5 11.8 Proven and probable reserves mmboe 440 434 Power generated TWh 26.7 32.9 UPSTREAM UK CENTRICA ENERGY As we look to the future, we see We expect to invest a billion pounds Mark Hana n considerable potential to deliver further on our power business over the next Managing Director or, growth and value.
There are opportunities four years, with the main focus on wind Centrica Energy both in upstream gas, building on the farm generation.
But we have investment Norwegian transaction we announced in options in all areas of generation, giving late 2011, and in power generation, with usthe ability to pursue those options Centrica Energys mission offshore wind, nuclear and biomass.
thatoffer the best returns, aligned is to secure the UKs energy with UKGovernment energy policy.
Various major international events affected needs, making sure the the energy industry in 2011, reminding Centrica Energy continues to make country has warm, well-lit us that we now operate in a truly global excellent progress, consistently delivering homes, factories and of ces market.
In my view, it is one in which gas on its strategy over the last two years with a has a pivotal role to play for many years business that is well-balanced between gas at the same time as generating tocome.
and oil production, and power generation.
attractive returns for the Group.
Whilst our immediate focus is on maximising Against this backdrop, we see tremendous returns from our existing assets and opportunity for our upstream business: investment programme, we also see amarket in which we are well positioned, considerable potential for further growth with distinctive capabilities and a strong and value over the medium term.
We aim portfolio of asset options.
Our objective is to enlarge signi cantly the scale of our to increase production by 50% to around activities, adding further gas production 75mmboe over the next three to five years assets and offshore wind capacity and by strengthening our existing portfolio evaluating options in biomass and through greater geographic diversity.
In power generation the landscape is changing but supportive of our strategy to invest in low carbon technologies.
Full Centrica Energy performance measures in appendix on pg 134 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 19 Business Review However, one of the wells at Ensign failed, UPSTREAM UK and will be re-drilled following completion Centrica Energy delivered a signi cant of our other planned Ensign development increase in operating pro t in 2011, up wells.
We had exploration discoveries at 33% to 1,023 million 2010: 771 million.
50 BCM the Pegasus prospect in the UK North Sea The impact of higher wholesale commodity and the Butch discovery in Norway, both prices and good asset performance more operated by Centrica.
However we were than offset the effect of dif cult market We signed a strategic unsuccessful with our drilling at the conditions for our CCGT eet, resulting in agreement with Statoil Whitethroat prospect in the UK North Sea.
impairment charges being recorded, as which begins in 2015 and described in the Group Financial Review We added 54mmboe of proven and on page 26.
The business also made a will supply 50 billion cubic probable reserves during 2011 primarily strong contribution to both Group earnings metres of gas to the UK due to upgrades of producing elds, such and cash ow, despite the increase in as Grove and Chiswick and bringing new over 10 years, enough for supplementary corporation tax SCT elds, such as Maria, into the development 3.5 million homes during the year.
After taking account of production during the year, our production replacement We continue to see attractive returns ratio was 112% and we ended the year upstream and invested over 600 million in with total reserves of 440mmboe.
our upstream gas and oil business during 2011.
We also invested 300 million in our The average achieved gas sales price, power business, the majority in our Lincs net of the impact of hedging, increased by offshore wind farm.
Health and safety 24% to 51.6 pence per therm p th 2010: remains of paramount importance, and 41.6p th, re ecting higher wholesale UK we continued to invest in the reliability gas prices.
The achieved price also re ects and safety of our gas and power assets.
production from our activities in Trinidad and Tobago, for which prices are linked to GAS Henry Hub.
The average achieved oil and Total gas production volumes reduced by condensate price, net of the impact of 15% to 2,160 million therms mmth 2010: our Rhyl and Atla projects in the second half hedging, increased by 22% to 57.2 per 2,550mmth, with gas volumes from of 2012, with first gas from the York project barrel of oil equivalent boe 2010: 46.8 Morecambe down by 41% to 817mmth in early 2013.
These five developments boe, re ecting higher worldwide oil prices.
2010: 1,381mmth, re ecting the natural combined are expected to bring around Production costs increased by 15% to decline of the eld and the decisions to 50mmboe of reserves into production.
1,127 million 2010: 980 million re ecting shut-in South Morecambe for commercial Development of the Valemon eld, in which in ationary cost increases, new gas and reasons more often than in 2010.
Gas we are acquiring an interest as part of the oil elds coming into production and the production from other elds increased by Statoil transaction, is on track with first gas full-year impact of the acquisitions of an 15% to 1,343mmth 2010: 1,169mmth and anticipated towards the end of 2014. additional stake in Statfjord and some oil and condensate volumes increased by Trinidad and Tobago assets in the second 6% to 12.5mmboe 2010: 11.8mmboe with On the Cygnus development, where our half of 2010.
On a per unit of production strong performance from existing assets, share of reserves is 51mmboe, we are basis, lifting costs increased to 9.9 boe such as Grove and Chiswick, and working closely with the operator, GdF 2010: 6.6 boe while depreciation, depletion incremental production from new elds Suez, to optimise the development plan and amortisation DDA costs increased and our enlarged stake in Statfjord.
Subject to acceptable returns to 10.1 boe 2010: 8.9 boe, re ecting we expect to make a final investment Upstream gas and oil is an attractive area a reduced proportion of low cost decision around the middle of 2012. in which to deploy capital.
During 2011 we Morecambe production in the mix.
We are progressing development of the produced first volumes from F3-FA and the Kew eld and also expect to make final In February we entered into a Memorandum Goosander Crestal well, while the noninvestment decisions on the Annabel East of Understanding MOU with Qatargas, operated Babbage eld is now fully and Olympus developments in 2012. leading to a three-year contract for the operational.
Our Ensign project is expected Combined, these three elds are expected delivery of 2.4 million tonnes of LNG per to produce first gas in the first half of 2012, to bring around 20mmboe into production.
annum, and in December we signed an with first gas from Seven Seas expected in MOU with Qatar Petroleum International mid-2012.
We are targeting first gas from Our drilling programme delivered good to examine other joint energy-related results once again in 2011.
In June we drilled production wells at Chestnut, F3-FA took delivery of our first cargo under and Goosander.
There were also successes Including share of joint ventures and associates before interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair the Qatargas contract.
In November, at the non-operated North West Seymour value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from alongside the acquisition of a package of eld and two wells at the West Brae eld.
Strategic Investments and exceptional items and  20 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review UPSTREAM UK CENTRICA ENERGY assets, we signed a new 10-year, NBPWeak market conditions for our gasred linked gas supply contract with Statoil.
CCGT eet resulted in a 34% reduction in The 5 billion cubic metres per annum gas generation volume to 15.0TWh 2010: supply contract starts in October 2015 22.8TWh and a lower load factor of 35% CE WAY and will replace the existing supply 2010: 56%.
The average spark spread contract with Statoil.
In addition we also achieved fell to 10.1 MWh 2010: 11.6 MWh In 2010, we launched The signed an MOU with Statoil to consider but was still well above the average baseload partnering on gas focused exploration market spread, re ecting volumes sold at CE Way, a programme for all opportunities in Norway and the UK.
Plant reliability remained high employees focusing on the at 98% 2010: 97%.
As a result of the weak Overall operating pro t for the gas way we want our business market conditions we are in the process of segment increased by 36% to 769million to be run, the way we want restructuring our CCGT portfolio and are 2010: 566 million with higher achieved proposing to close two of our plants, at people to act and the way prices more than offsetting the impact of Barry and Kings Lynn, with a total capacity we want it to feel working reduced gas volumes and higher of 555MW.
Our plants at Peterborough, productioncosts.
It is Brigg and Roosecote are now con gured composed of three ways POWER to run more exibly and operate in the Strong performance from our share of Short Term Operating Reserve STOR high performance, pioneering nuclear assets more than offset the impact market, resulting in lower operating costs.
of weak market conditions for our gasred Overall operating pro t for the power power stations.
Our share of nuclear Building on the successful introduction, segment increased by 24% to 254 million output increased by 16% to 11.2 terawatt we focused on embedding the CE Way 2010: 205 million with higher volumes hours TWh 2010: 9.7TWh, with fewer during 2011 and in helping our people and achieved prices from our nuclear and unplanned outages during the year.
Our bring it to life and make sense of it.
wind assets more than offsetting the impact average achieved nuclear power price, of lower gasred generation volumes.
One of the most successful net of the impact of hedging, increased by interventions of 2011, were the CE Way 13% to 48.5 per megawatt hour MWh OUTLOOK Labs.
These were highly interactive 2010: 42.9 MWh re ecting the impact of Further increases in wholesale gas and events designed to equip 250 of our higher baseload market power prices.
As power prices would be positive for our people leaders with skills, insights and a result of the higher volumes and higher upstream gas and oil, nuclear and wind knowledge to help them create team achieved price, nuclear pro tability was businesses, although market conditions environments where high performance, much improved compared to 2010. for our gasred generation assets are pioneering spirit and safety are likely to remain challenging and load factors Our wind assets again bene ted from inevitable.
Not only did the people are expected to remain low.
In addition, the availability of over 90%, and with weather leaders attend workshops at these business will face a full-years impact from conditions generally more favourable than labs but they also had a chance to the higher upstream gas and oil taxes in 2010, generated volumes increased by experiment with what they learnt.
21% to 596 gigawatt hours GWh 2010: Read more @ www.
com 493GWh, with the load factor improving Production of both gas and liquids is to 36% 2010: 29%.
The construction of expected to increase by over 25% in 2012 and oil business, through acquisition and the 270MW Lincs wind farm project is following the acquisitions of a package of organic development, and on expanding proceeding to schedule, although assets in the Norwegian North Sea from the scale of our offshore wind operations.
unfavourable weather conditions at the Statoil, announced in November, an We expect to make a final investment end of 2011 and early in 2012 delayed additional stake in the Statfjord eld, decision on the Cygnus gas development installation of the foundations.
48 out of announced in January 2012 and a package around the middle of 2012, subject to 75 foundations are now complete, while of UK North Sea assets from Total, suitable returns, with a final investment the offshore substation has been installed announced in February 2012.
The Statoil decision expected on the Race Bank and commissioning is ongoing.
Lincs is and Statfjord transactions are expected to offshore wind farm around the end of the expected to generate first power in the close in May 2012, with the Total transaction year.
We also retain further investment second half of 2012 and is expected to be expected to close in July2012 and in options in new nuclear build, biomass fully operational in the first half of 2013. aggregate these three acquisitions are and new build CCGT.
With all of our expected to add around 13mmboe of investment options, we will only proceed gas and liquids production in2012.
if appropriate returns are achievable.
We will continue to invest in the upstream Including share of joint ventures and associates before business where we see value.
The focus interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair will remain on growing our upstream gas value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and  Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 21 Business Review For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Average SBU price in period, pence 30.0 42.1 Gross revenue m 184 267 Cost of gas m 19 15 Operating pro t m 75 169 STORAGE UK CENTRICA STORAGE With the UK increasingly dependent on making the required investments Grant Dawson imported gas, increasing the countrys gas when there are attractive commercial Chairman, storage capacity remains key to ensuring opportunities.
Should the market fail to Centrica Storage security of supply for businesses and provide the necessary investment signals, homes.
This remains the case despite as we progress these projects towards a limited usage through the winter of final investment decision, we will discuss The Centrica Storage vision 2011 12 due to warm weather.
the market mechanisms required with the is to become the leading multiUK Government to support investment in We are making good progress towards our asset, multi-product gas storage increased storage build.
market-leading vision and our two new business in the UK.
storage projects at Baird and Caythorpe The Rough storage eld continues to have both completed their engineering provide more than 70% of UK gas storage design phase.
The economic viability of and remains a critical national asset.
We both projects remains critical and we will will need to continue to invest signi cant continue to review market conditions.
sums of money to protect the long-term future of the eld it remains a key part Gas storage prices, as re ected in of the Groups integrated energy business.
standard bundled unit SBU prices, remained low in 2011 with the differential During 2012, we will continue to between summer and winter gas prices strengthen our business across all areas, narrower than in recent years.
This in preparation for a multi-asset storage challenges the economics of new storage future.
It will be a year when we focus construction and has reduced the on driving ef ciency and improving pro tability of our existing storage facilities.
We will maintain financial discipline, only Full Centrica Storage performance measures in appendix on pg 134 22 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review STORAGE UK CENTRICA STORAGE We have taken the decision to terminate STORAGE UK our Bains storage project, following a Centrica Storage faced dif cult trading review of the results of 3D seismic survey conditions in 2011, with the differential data which indicated that the reservoir between summer and winter gas prices 300 HRS would not be suf ciently attractive to remaining narrow for much of the year convert into a storage facility.
Centrica re ecting an increasing amount of LNG In 2011 Centrica Storage Energy now plan to return the eld to coming to the UK during the winter months.
production, with work expected to employees provided The Rough asset continued to perform commence in the first half of 2012. more than 300 hours of well, with reliability of 96% 2010: 98% We continue to assess our Baird storage volunteering support to impacted by a small number of disruptions project, which remains an attractive at the Easington terminal in January and the communities in which investment option subject to an essential offshore maintenance work on weoperate.
Warmer weather in the Caythorpe fast-cycle project remains on first quarter of the year meant that injection In partnership with the Marine hold and we will continue to monitor started earlier than usual and further mild Conservation Societys MCS Adopt-amarket conditions going forward.
weather throughout spring and summer Beach Scheme, we adopted Easington resulted in Rough reaching a record Net beach which stretches in front of our In April, the Competition Commission Reservoir Volume NRV of 132 billion cubic Easington terminal.
Employees spent published its final decision on our request feet BCF early in the fourth quarter.
Health more than 50 hours collecting and for a review of the Undertakings given and safety remains our top priority and disposing of rubbish on the beach, not to the Secretary of State following the during the year we undertook a number of only making it a much better place for acquisition of Rough.
A number of process safety related initiatives, with further visitors, but they also provided vital variations have been agreed to the work planned in 2012. information by recording what was Undertakings to re ect the changes in found to assist MCS with tackling themarket, including an increase in the Gross revenue fell by 31% to 184 million marine pollution.
proportion of capacity that Centrica is 2010: 267 million.
The narrowing of allowed to acquire for its own use to 25% seasonal spreads resulted in an average Time was also spent helping the from 15%.
We expect to sign the revised SBU price of 30.0 pence 2010: 42.1pence.
South Holderness Countryside Society Undertakings shortly.
In addition, revenue from optimisation and SHCS restore Ivy House in Hollym in additional space sales was lower, again Yorkshire near to Easington.
The SHCS While the seasonal spread for the 2012 13 re ecting the narrowing of seasonal are working to turn Ivy House and its storage year showed some improvement spreads, as well asreduced market land into a nature reserve for visitors over the fourth quarter of 2011, the forward volatility.
After taking account of higher and school children.
Activities that curve further out indicates that spreads are fuel-gas costs, higher depreciation our people have helped with include expected to remain tight for the medium resulting from previous investment in removal of building rubble, cabling for term.
With the UK importing an increasing Rough and in ationary cost increases, an IT room, carpentry and painting.
proportion of its gas requirements, there is operating pro t fell by 56% to 75million Centrica Storage apprentices and a general recognition that the UK is in need 2010: 169 million.
electrical technicians have also of further storage capacity: however, we helped to rewire Ivy House.
will only invest in new projects if returns are appropriate for the level of risk undertaken.
co. uk 70% The Rough storage eld continues to provide more than 70% of UK gas storage Including share of joint ventures and associates before and remains a critical interest and taxation, and before depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and equipment from national asset Strategic Investments and exceptional items and  Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 23 Business Review For the year ended 31 December 2011 2010 Adjusted operating pro t m 312 234 Residential customer accounts year end, 000 3,364 2,855 Proven and probable reserves year end, mmboe 109 96 NORTH AMERICA DIRECT ENERGY We are pursuing several growth areas: We see opportunities to convert these Chris Weston further acquisitions upstream and customers to protection plan or contract Managing Director r, downstream, additional market entries customers and to build our cross-sell North America for our retail supply business, growing proposition and customer base.
our current market share in energy and We continue to pursue value creating services, and additional cross-selling Our strategic priority is to build opportunities in both power generation opportunities between the energy and upstream gas, as we did with our an integrated North American and services businesses.
recent Wildcat Hills and Carrot Creek business with leading positions Natural gas will continue to play an asset acquisitions.
Vertical integration is in deregulated markets: our important role in North America: gas a key source of value in North America, ambition is to become the production is 26 trillion cubic feet per as it is in the UK, and we have seen how annum with shale gas already driving it can drive good results, as it did during most recommended energy more than 20% of domestic production the extreme weather we experienced and services provider.
and expected to continue to grow.
is growth in domestic demand, largely In summary, were making good progress from power generation, but current low across all of our lines of business, were prices for gas could create new sources driving organic improvements to deliver of demand as customers switch fuels for ef ciencies, and we have established appliances and vehicles, and as commercial a strong financial track record.
Were customers reinvest in manufacturing.
well-placed to grow organically, building Our Clockwork acquisition has been on our existing base and strong transformational: we are now the largest marketpositions.
services business in North America, with 3million residential and business customer relationships.
Full Direct Energy performance measures in appendix on pg 135 24 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business Review NORTH AMERICA DIRECT ENERGY the size of our customer base, enhancing ef ciencies across all core geographies.
NORTH AMERICA our scale in the key states of New York Operating margin fell slightly to 6.7% Direct Energy achieved strong growth and Ohio, and further consolidating our 2010: 7.1%.
in operating pro t in 2011, bene ting top three market position in this important from operational improvements and BUSINESS ENERGY SUPPLY region.
Our investment in the US North cost ef ciencies, both upstream and Direct Energy Business had another strong East is delivering returns well in excess downstream, and the impact of year with further volume growth and of our cost of capital.
This improvement came sustained margins.
Electricity volumes despite more challenging market The Texas business performed well despite increased by 17% to 46.4TWh 2010: conditions for the retail energy supply price spikes during extremely cold weather 39.7TWh re ecting high sales productivity, business and continued low gas and in February and the hottest August on the targeting of key customer segments power prices in our core geographies.
After taking account of higher and high levels of customer service, further prices and load factors achieved in our consolidating our position as the third Gross revenue increased slightly to 6,117 upstream power business, pro tability in largest business energy supplier in million 2010: 5,997 million as the impact Texas was not materially impacted by the NorthAmerica.
During the year we also of lower wholesale energy prices was weather.
Our transformation programme established ourselves as a leading channel more than offset by customer growth has simpli ed our systems and platforms partner in KEMAs 2011 annual broker in residential energy supply and higher and is delivering real results.
volumes in both business energy supply making more ef cient use of sales and upstream and wholesale energy.
Competition in this segment is intensifying, channels, our consolidated billing platform Operating pro t increased by 33% to as competitors continue their pursuit of and prepaid offering are helping to reduce 312 million 2010: 234 million, with vertical integration and increasingly focus bad debt and operating costs, and we have stronger performance from our business on the small business segment.
Our improved levels of customer satisfaction energy supply, residential and business established position and expertise in this and reduced customer churn.
Our services and upstream and wholesale area leaves the business well placed.
enhanced segmentation approach has energy divisions.
The impact of currency In addition, we continued to focus on also contributed to improved returns in movements on the reported results was operational and scale ef ciencies.
Texas and we are expanding this approach not signi cant in 2011. to our other markets.
In addition, the Gross revenue increased by 2.5% to RESIDENTIAL ENERGY SUPPLY acquisition of First Choice Power, which 2,748million 2010: 2,682 million as Direct Energy Residential delivered a good added 220,000 customer accounts, volume growth offset the impact of the lower performance in a consolidating competitive further strengthens our position as the commodity price environment.
Operating landscape, with less favourable market third largest energy retailer in the state.
conditions and more extreme weather In Ontario, the market structure is no than in 2010.
The total number of customer longer conducive to competition and has accounts increased by 18% over the year been made even more challenging by the further building on our leading position in 36% UP Energy Consumer Protection Act, which competitive markets in North America, as makes it substantially more dif cult to we signi cantly expanded the scale of the acquire and retain customers.
As expected, business through acquisitions and organic Power generation volumes the number of customer accounts in the growth.
We made three acquisitions in at our three Energy Centers province has fallen signi cantly and we residential energy supply in 2011, Gateway continue to aggressively manage our cost Energy Services, First Choice Power and in Texas increased by 36% base in the region, in order to minimise the Vectren Retail.
These transactions added to 5,247GWh with improved impact.
Although we expect our customer over 750,000 customer accounts and built asset availability and base and pro t to continue to reduce in on a successful strategy of acquiring Ontario as a result, over time we expect optimisation performance smaller suppliers, increasing our market this to be offset by growth in the US share in deregulated markets, leveraging NorthEast and Texas.
our existing systems and removing costs.
Gross revenue fell by 3% to 2,416 million In the US North East, the acquisitions 2010: 2,502 million re ecting lower of Gateway in the first half of the year average retail tariffs.
Operating pro t fell and Vectren Retail in December have by 9% to 161 million 2010: 177 million, contributed to an almost doubling of re ecting the less favourable market conditions, particularly in Ontario, and the spikes in Texas power prices.
These Including share of joint ventures and associates stated gross of interest and taxation, and before other costs and impacts were partially offset by US depreciation of fair value uplifts to property, plant and customer growth and operational equipment from Strategic Investments and exceptional items and certain re-measurements Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25 Business Review margin improved to 4.0% 2010: 3.3% UPSTREAM AND WHOLESALE re ecting operational improvements and ENERGY the bene ts of scale, while operating pro t Pro tability in our Direct Energy Upstream increased by 25% to 110 million 2010: business improved signi cantly compared 132, 716 88 million.
to 2010, despite the impact of low natural gas prices.
This improvement was driven by RESIDENTIAL AND BUSINESS During Walktober, 1,752 a full-years contribution from the Wildcat Hills SERVICES employees walked 132,716 assets in Alberta and improved power asset The integration of Clockwork is complete miles as part of the Wellbeing performance in Texas, particularly during and the business is positioning itself to grow the price spikes in February andAugust.
programme launched in 2011. in the highly fragmented North American services market, through expansion of the Gas production volumes increased by 39% The programme offers a broad range franchise network and further penetration to 567mmth 2010: 409mmth while unit of wellness services to all employees of the largest metropolitan areas.
The costs fell by 10%, re ecting the impact of in North America.
The goal is to help announcement in November of the the Wildcat Hills acquisition, completed them improve their health and tness, acquisition of the home services protection in 2010, with a subsequent interest acquired create a stronger link with eld plan business, Home Warranty of America in March 2011.
Our North America 2P employees, involve families and make HWA, provides a further platform for reserves increased by 14% over the year, a lasting and bene cial difference in growth and enhances our ability to re ecting this acquisition and operational workplace culture.
We have also now Read more @ www.
com of the few home warranty providers with completed the acquisition of a package the necessary licences to operate across of liquids-rich natural gas assets in the the United States and the acquisition will In services, we will use the platform Carrot Creek region of Alberta.
allow Direct Energy to build an extensive created by Clockwork and HWA to drive Power generation volumes increased by protection plan business, complementing organic growth and over time increasingly 36% to 5,247GWh 2010: 3,851GWh, with Clockworks current nationwide cross-sell to our energy customer base.
improved asset availability and optimisation on-demand offering.
Our upstream business continues to be performance allowing the upstream impacted by low gas prices in Alberta and Overall, the number of customer accounts business to bene t from the spikes in spark spreads in Texas.
With shale gas in was broadly at, with the number of power prices experienced during the plentiful supply, gas prices are expected installations and on-demand jobs up extremely cold weather in February and to remain low across North America.
In materially, largely as a result of the full-year during the record high temperatures in power generation, the outlook for Texas impact of the Clockwork acquisition.
As a result, the power generation spreads will depend on the outlook for Canada, we continued to improve retention business broke-even in2011.
reserve margins, which was lowered last in our water heater customer base and Overall, the upstream and wholesale year by ERCOT, and to a certain extent on drive broader cost ef ciencies in a division made an operating pro t of 13 the impact of United States Environmental challenging market environment.
Although million 2010: operating loss of 46 million Protection Agency EPA legislation on weak economic conditions in North re ecting improved performance from both regional power markets.
The bene ts of America and a slow housing market have our gas and power businesses.
vertical integration were clearly seen during continued to impact our business, including 2011, as the business coped well during our legacy new construction business in OUTLOOK periods of high power prices in Texas.
We the United States, customer satisfaction The outlook for Direct Energy remains continue to seek opportunities in both remained high, with an NPS of 58, and positive.
Our residential energy supply upstream gas and power, subject to customer retention remained strong.
business is making good progress in Texas investments delivering appropriate returns.
and the US North East, although a mild Gross revenue increased by 7% to 520 winter may affect first half pro tability, while million 2010: 485 million and operating We also continue to drive organic the unfavourable market conditions in pro t nearly doubled to 28 million 2010: improvements across the business, Ontario will continue to impact both our 15 million, mainly as a result of a full-years streamlining our operations to create an business and residential energy supply impact from the Clockwork acquisition in improved, cost-ef cient organisation, activities in the region.
We will continue to July 2010 and cost ef ciencies, partially while seeking investment opportunities pursue our successful strategy of acquiring offset by the impact of the continued weak both downstream and upstream for further energy retailers, to deliver cost synergies housing market and the removal of some growth.
We have therefore announced and scale, while at the same time improving energy ef ciency tax incentives.
the relocation of our North American head the ef ciency of our operations.
We expect of ce from Toronto to Houston, to enable continued growth in both our business us to focus more attention on our growth energy supply and services divisions, opportunities, in Texas and the US although both are signi cantly affected by NorthEast.
the strength of the US economic recovery.
