com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Operating Review UK Packaging 2010 11 2009 10 Revenue m 917.7 750.2 Adjusted operating profit m 54.2 37.0 Adjusted return on sales % 5.9 4.9 Adjusted return on average capital employed % 10.3 6.9 Packaging Market and business background The market for corrugated packaging in Europe grew 3% year-onyear Source: FEFCO European Federation of Corrugated Board In the UK, DS Smith operates three businesses, being corrugated Manufacturers, year to 31 March 2011 with growth in the UK packaging, paper manufacturing and waste paper collection.
market being 1% for the same period.
We have been able to grow We operate from 28 corrugated packaging factories, 4 paper ahead of the market due to our strategy of focusing on recycled mills and 15 recycling depots.
2 DS Smith in the UK manufactures c. 1.125 billion m of corrugated Volume growth of 8% across the packaging businesses excluding packaging and board: the UK market size is estimated at the impact of Otor was achieved through our approach to winning 2 c. 4.1 billion m. We also manufacture c. 770 thousand tonnes and retaining business by delivering high levels of customer service, of corrugated case material CCM the UK market is estimated at quality and innovation which enabled us to gain new customers and c. 2.1 million tonnes and we make an additional c. 260 thousand expand our position with existing customers.
tonnes of other paper grades, principally plasterboard liner.
Of the CCM that we manufactured in 2010 11, approximately 300 Increases in input costs have been substantial, with, for example, thousand tonnes was used within our packaging business.
the market price of recovered fibre rising year-on-year by 75%.
Our total input costs in the Packaging business have increased DS Smith Recycling collects c. 1.8 million tonnes of old corrugated 26% year-on-year, and we have raised prices to recover these containers and other used paper per year, the majority of which costs.
Our profit performance, with improved return on sales margins, is used by our recycled paper manufacturing operations.
demonstrates the discipline that has been employed in cost recovery The market size for all types of recycled materials in the UK and the mix benefit from the higher proportion of FMCG business.
We have been successful in recovering our costs due to the Our customer base for our corrugated box products is constructive commercial relationships we have with our customers, approximately 75% FMCG, with our largest UK Packaging where our ability to meet their high standards has been instrumental customer comprising under 3% of the revenue of the division.
in differentiating our packaging offering.
UK Packaging Our UK Packaging operations, which include our recycling business, UK paper manufacturing and our UK corrugated packaging businesses, have delivered revenue growth of 22.3%, driven by volume growth as well as pricing to recover rising costs.
The resilience and growth demonstrated by our FMCG customers has provided an attractive market, which we have targeted with our focus on service, quality and innovation.
BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING 51271 p16-22 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:26 Page 19 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 19 For example, this year has seen the successful commercialisation of the innovative R-Flute design, offering our customers optimised performance whilst minimising material content and thickness, with commensurate savings in transportation and storage costs.
Some of our major customers have converted entirely to R-Flute.
The UK corrugated packaging business has maintained its high levels of customer service, which has enabled us to expand our position with key customers.
In the recycling business, annual sales volumes grew 5.5% on the previous year.
During 2010 11, we gained additional business from an existing large retail customer such that we are now their sole collector of fibre in the UK: this position was won due to our service and our carbon impact analysis tool.
We are currently working with a number of our large retail customers to deliver front-of-store recycling collection services: again, we won this business due to our commitment to high standards of service.
The UK paper business has given significant attention to improving its service levels, with their OTIF performance increasing substantially over the course of the year.
The business has also invested in improving its customer management procedures.
The paper business has seen good year-on-year progression, particularly at our major plant at Kemsley.
The UK Packaging business has undergone structural change in the year with the recycling, paper and corrugated packaging businesses now all managed as a single enterprise in order to support the corrugated packaging activities.
The recycling business is now rebranded as DS Smith Recycling formerly Severnside Recycling and the paper business is now DS Smith Paper formerly St Regis.
The UK Packaging business is run by a new Divisional Chief Executive who is leading a programme to make the UK operations more effective and cost efficient, with a target to achieve 10 million annual savings from improved effectiveness by April 2014.
Adjusted operating profit margin in the UK Packaging business increased 100bps to 5.9% 2009 10: 4.9% and adjusted operating profit increased 46.5% to 54.2 million 2009 10: 37.0 million.
ROACE improved to 10.3% 2009 10: 6.9% reflecting both improved profitability and a reduction in working capital.
Looking ahead to 2011 12, we are confident that our chosen target market of FMCG customers will remain resilient.
Collaborative action within our business will deliver further innovation, closely aligned to our customers needs.
For example, adaptation of Otors extensive range of design and technology will offer valuable new options for UK customers.
Our recycling business expects to expand further overseas and we expect to extend our coverage to customers in France, Hungary and Poland over the course of the financial year.
Cadbury Nibbles Award Winning DS Smith together with customer Cadbury won the Retail-Ready Packaging award at the UK Packaging Packaging Awards in November 2010 for the Cadbury Nibbles box.
The judging panel said it was a perfect example of how retail-ready packaging benefits the brand, supermarket and, importantly, the consumer.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Operating Review Continental European Corrugated Packaging 2010 11 2009 10 Revenue m 599.4 355.4 Adjusted operating profit m 39.8 23.1 Adjusted return on sales % 6.6 6.5 Adjusted return on average capital employed % 12.5 12.0 In Poland and Italy we have invested in printing machinery to deliver Market and business background higher value-added products, and these businesses have continued to deliver strong returns in the year.
In Ukraine, where we operate as The market for corrugated board across continental Europe is part of a joint venture, volume and revenue growth has been good 2 estimated at c. 30 billion m Source: FEFCO European Federation with effective cost recovery, due to a mix of improved performance of Corrugated Board Manufacturers of which France and Poland from local customers and from servicing international customers.
comprise c. 15% and c. 7.5% respectively.
Adjusted operating profit margin of the division is up 10bps Our continental European business now includes the operations due to the mix benefit of Otor, partially offset by the usual c. three purchased as part of the Otor acquisition.
In total we now have 27 month delay in cost recovery in some parts of the business.
Adjusted sites throughout Europe, in France, Italy, Poland, Czech Republic operating profit increased 72.3% and ROACE is up 50bps to and Slovakia.
DS Smith in continental Europe produces c. 1.3 12.5% due to the mix benefit of Otor.
2 billion m of corrugated board on an annualised basis.
DS Smith also manufactures recycled paper, with annualised output of c. Looking ahead to 2011 12, we expect to see continued pressure 300 thousand tonnes, approximately half of which is CCM, largely on costs and consequently will continue to seek to recover these, used by our corrugated packaging operations, and the remainder securing our position with customers by the excellent service and is solid board, sold externally.
innovative solutions that we offer.
We will also be rolling out further innovation with corrugators in France now equipped to make Our customer base for our corrugated packaging is 65% FMCG, R-Flute and there are plans to extend this capacity to our with our largest customer in continental Europe comprising under operations in Poland.
4% of the revenue of the division.
Revenue for the period was up 68.7% up 13.2% excluding the eight months contribution from Otor, and volumes were up 8.7% year-on-year, excluding the contribution from Otor.
Pricing increased to recover rising input costs.
Our service levels remained consistently high, facilitating our ability to recover costs promptly.
High specification design Otor was acquired on 1 September 2010 and the two principal This 8 corner box for retail-ready DS Smith corrugated packaging sites previously owned in France display was developed for Lactalis President camembert boxes to are now combined with the six principal sites from Otor, run as one allow the product to be transported business under the name DS Smith Packaging France.
In the eight flat and displayed vertically.
The box months of ownership, Otor delivered an adjusted operating profit is specially designed to be packed at margin of 9.4% and an annualised return on invested capital 35 cases per minute and is constructed being the return on the consideration paid plus debt assumed on to enable easy cooling of the products acquisition of 13.6%.
The integration is now expected to deliver as they are packed warm.
It is also cost savings of 13.0 million estimated at 9.3 million at the time eco-friendly as the new packaging of acquisition by April 2013 currently equivalent to 11.6 million represents a 10% weight saving and 8.3 million respectively.
3 million 2.7 million equivalent and fits 20% more products on each transport pallet.
has been delivered in the financial year 2010 11 and we are confident of delivering the targeted savings in full.
Whilst the acquisition due diligence had led us to expect some commercial synergies, we have been very pleased by the commercial response and pace of synergies, with existing 20% more on each Otor customers now buying from the wider DS Smith network, and with DS Smith customers expanding their position with us in France.
transport pallet BB UU SS IN IN EE SS SS N N O O TT IC IC EE BR U R E SE V IN V IE IE E W S W S REVIEW G G O O VV E G E RR O N N A VA E N N RC N C EA ENCE FF F IN IIN N AA A N N N CC C IA IIA A L L LS S S TA T TA A TT T EE E M M M EE E N N N TT T SS S NO O O F TF IC M M E E E E O E TF T IN IN M G G EETING 51271 p16-22 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:26 Page 21 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 21 Operating Review Plastic Packaging 2010 11 2009 10 Revenue m 242.2 231.3 Adjusted operating profit m 16.9 16.6 Adjusted return on sales % 7.0 7.2 Adjusted return on average capital employed % 14.9 13.4 Revenue grew 4.7% and adjusted operating profits increased by Market and business background 1.8% year-on-year.
Excluding the disposal of the Demes business in January 2010, revenue grew 11.0% and adjusted operating profit Our Plastic Packaging division comprises returnable transit grew 8.6%.
Revenue growth was driven by volume growth of 9.4%, packaging RTP and liquid packaging and dispensing and price increases to cover rising input costs.
The business has grown LP&D products.
its volumes through a focus on commercialising its innovative products, RTP is used across the retail, automotive, electronics and beverage marketed at the retail, FMCG and fast-food sectors.
For example, sectors, with demand being driven by overall industry activity the LP&D business has brought out a number of new products, such levels.
It operates from 10 locations in the UK, France, Belgium, as bag and tap solutions for serving beverages, which has driven Spain, Poland and Slovakia.
sales to existing key customers.
The returnable transit packaging business has continued to make consistent progress, benefiting from LP&D is used in the beverage sector, for alcoholic, dairy and fruitprior year cost reductions and commercialisation of a new innovative based soft drinks, plus use in industrial solutions such as oils and mobile pallet solution for retailers.
The adjusted operating profit in-home and personal care products, such as laundry detergents.
margin remained high at 7.0% and ROACE is excellent at 14.9% The global market for LP&D products is estimated at 500 million.
due to improved working capital.
DS Smith has a number 2 position in the global market, with a particularly strong position in the US.
It operates from 11 manufacturing locations in the UK, USA, Germany, France, Bulgaria, Slovakia, Russia, Australia and New Zealand.
Our Plastic Packaging business also includes StePac, based in Israel, which makes specialised modified atmosphere packaging for the transportation of fruit and vegetables.
Plastic Packaging has a diverse customer base, with the largest customer comprising c. 3% of the revenue of the division.
Collaborative design DS Smith Plastics has developed an innovative bag-in-box solution for Millers Oil premium oil range.
The design of the pack with a tamper proof, twin walled, sealed bag placed within a branded cardboard box makes it easier to handle, stack and transport, while the sturdy box offers additional protection for the contents.
The easy-access tap ensures safe dispensing with no glugging and minimal spillage and product waste.
These benefits make the pack highly practical in a workshop environment.
The bag, box and tap are all made by DS Smith.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Operating Review Office Products Wholesaling 2010 11 2009 10 Revenue m 715.2 733.7 Adjusted operating profit m 25.2 21.4 Adjusted return on sales % 3.5 2.9 Adjusted return on average capital employed % 22.4 17.9 Revenue in constant currency was broadly flat year-on-year, with a Market and business background strong performance in continental Europe offset by more challenging trading conditions in the UK.
Successful initiatives during the year The office supplies markets in the UK, France, Germany and included further expansion of our facilities management product Benelux are estimated at 6.8 billion, 9.8 billion, 13.3 billion range, and further extension of our own label brand 5 Star.
Spicers has a number one position popular Calipage dealer formula has been rolled out into Germany in the UK and France, a strong position in Germany, particularly and we now have c. 500 Calipage dealers in Europe.
The in non-electrical office supplies, and is the leading wholesaler in management team has been strengthened, including a new Belgium.
The dealer and re-seller market that Spicers addresses Divisional Chief Executive.
Profit was up 17.8% to 25.2 million comprises c. 35% of the total office products markets in the 2009 10: 21.4 million due to tight cost control, particularly in countries in which Spicers operates.
the UK, and initiatives based on the strategy to supply everything Spicers operates from a network of 21 distribution centres based for the office.
Adjusted operating profit margin increased to 3.5% in the UK, Ireland, France, Benelux, Germany, Spain and Italy.
2009 10: 2.9% showing the benefits of a disciplined approach to margins achieved through a combination of product mix and Spicers sells to 15,000 active re-sellers and stocks up to 20,000 pricing.
The business has made targeted investments to improve product lines.
its supply chain efficiency, which have been more than funded by continued improvements in working capital.
In 2011 12 the business will continue to focus on its service levels to customers, realising cost efficiencies and margin management.
Calipage roll-out Calipage is growing across Europe as we initiate a range of marketing programmes in Benelux, France, Spain and Germany.
In April 2011 we launched our new integrated e-commerce platform in France, Calipage.
