18 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Providing essential products for a range of end-markets, including health and fitness, retail, construction and industrial sectors Protection & Finishing Products Revenue by end-market % Revenue by destination % 3 1.
15.1 Other 4 2 2 3 Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 19 ISO 9000 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 Moss Kidlington Alliance Erie Duraco Chicago MSI Houston MSI Mexico 2012 key initiatives Stera Tape Bridlington Richco, Inc.
Successful integration of Reid and Richco Completion of new MSI facility and commencement In accordance with Group policy the site has two years from acquisition of manufacturing to achieve certifications ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance Further roll out of new sites and continued expansion ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance in Asian markets OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational Continued strengthening of the e-commerce offering health commitment and performance Who we are and what we do How we do it The division is a global market leading Our objective is to leverage our extensive supplier of protection and finishing products, product range and geographic distribution manufacturing and distributing plastic injection capability, using our efficient sourcing and moulded vinyl, dip moulded, and metal items, manufacturing operations and sophisticated as well as pressure sensitive tapes.
IT platform, to respond to the demands of our diverse international customer base.
Our seven divisional businesses serve a very Our tool library and production experience, broad base of over 120,000 customers with along with our inventory logistics structure, ROB PURCELL a rapid supply of primarily plastic products is a unique asset.
We have strong business to Managing Director, for protection and finishing applications, in business marketing expertise electronic, web Protection & Finishing Products industries such as hydraulics, pneumatics, oil based and physical and support this with a and gas, electrical controls, point of purchase number of comprehensive product catalogues and tubular metal products.
available in many languages and online.
Collectively, we serve our customers from We target organic growth opportunities 11principal manufacturing facilities and 49 through increasing the range and availability 26.3% sales and distribution operations in a total of our products, and by network expansion of 21countries.
into new international territories and growing Revenue growth density within existing territories.
Driving an increased number of transactions from a growing customer and product base, while focusing on the further reduction of transaction costs, is a key objective for our continued success.
The division continues to seek out acquisition opportunities, which can move us into complementary product categories or further our distribution capability.
20 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Protection & Finishing Products continued 500 million State of the art warehouses stock over 500 million parts guaranteed for next day delivery Kidlington distribution centre 350m mouldings are held at Kidlington over an area of 37,200 square feet which maximises distribution and service requirements How we performed in 2011 Continued focus on efficient marketing In 2011, we made two exciting strategic investment and activity, particularly the acquisitions: Reid Supply for up to US$32m, Revenue increased 27.5% at constant exchange increasing use of electronic marketing media, and Richco, Inc. for US$110m.
Reids excellent to 163.0m, with like-for-like growth of 16.4% delivered strong lead indicators versus the management team is already rapidly integrating driven by range development, new customer prior year: marketing responses were up the business into the division, and while much wins and continued improvement in marketing 12.4%, and the number of live accounts remains to be done we are excited about the effectiveness.
The results were boosted by the at the end of 2011 increased to over 120,000, future business opportunities, with a new inclusion of a full year contribution from Stera partially boosted by the acquisition of Reid Reid catalogue launched in January 2012.
Tape, as well as four months from Reid Supply.
Revenue from higher margin proprietary products increased to 74% on a The acquisition of Richco brings significant The component distribution businesses of comparable basis, excluding Reid from 71%.
benefit to the division, both in product Moss, Skiffy and Alliance each delivered record To support the future growth of the division, terms and from a geographical perspective.
levels of revenue, and broad-based growth the focus on driving the e-commerce strategy Richco has an excellent range of proprietary across geographies and key end-market sectors.
was successfully reinforced during the year.
products in diverse and growing end-markets, The move to larger distribution warehousing including consumer electronics, industrial operations in Brazil and Poland supported the During the year, we merged our Moss, Skiffy and white goods appliances.
In addition, performance and presence in these growing and Alliance businesses together with the with over 60% of its revenue generated markets, while revenue from Moss China more newly acquired Reid and Richco into a single in Europe and nearly 15% in Asia, Richco than doubled during the year.
Alliance Express component distribution segment.
Alongside provides an excellent opportunity to Albany was opened in the second half of 2011, MSI in oil and gas, and Duraco in tapes, accelerate our development, particularly and the Duraco operations established in China this organisational structure allows an even in Asia.
Richco also takes the division into and Los Angeles both performed well.
The greater focus on our key end-markets.
Italy for the first time, a traditional gap in integration of Stera Tape proceeded in line with ourgeographic footprint.
expectations, and the launch of Stera Tape Adjusted operating profit grew 32.6% products in the US has been completed.
at constant exchange to 37.8m, for a The acquisition of Reid was completed 90bps uplift in the margin.
This improvement on 6September, since when the trading Following a strong performance in 2010, reflected both operational leverage from the performance and the integration of the MSI delivered another record result in 2011. strong revenue growth, as well as operating business have both progressed in line During the year, we also progressed with and process efficiencies and a continued with expectations.
The acquisition of the construction of a new 130,000 sq.
ft. positive mix effect from moving the business Richco was completed on 21December: factory at MSI in Houston, US, to increase further into higher margin standard parts, there was no impact from Richco on the our capacity and to build on our excellent partially offset by the dilutive impact of Reid trading result of the division in FY 2011. positioning in the oil country tubular goods and Stera Tape.
Construction of this facility remains on track to be operational by the second quarter of 2012.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 21 What we measure Why we measure it How we have done New customer Reflects the success of targeting 18.2% acquisition organic growth opportunities increase in live new customers excluding acquired businesses compared to 2010 Success of Indicates the potential revenue 12.4% marketing activity generating impact of marketing increase in marketing investment responses from 2010 700C On Time in Full Demonstrates the ability to 3.0% Fire sleeving gives protection against meet delivery demands improvement from 2010 harsh environments including service temperatures up to 700C Key financial highlights Revenue m 2008 114.6 2009 95.3 2010 129.1 2011 163.0 26.3% 2,800 Our responsibilities Duraco offers a 1 Operating profit very broad range Over and above compliance with environmental m of adhesive products standards and a commitment to reducing 2008 26.7 with 2,800 available our impact on the environment, all our divisional businesses are increasingly focused 2009 15.9 on the extent to which new environmentally- 2010 28.8 friendly products and processes present new 2011 37.8 31.3% opportunities to add value in response to customer demands, as well as potentially reducing costs.
Indeed, notwithstanding 1 Operating margin our strong revenue growth in 2011, we made % further significant environmental improvements 2008 23.3 during the year, with a double-digit percentage reduction in CO emissions, energy use, general 2009 16.7 2 waste and water consumption.
2010 22.3 2011 23.2 90bps Our focus is on the fundamental objective of securing the health and safety of all our employees.
During the year, our MSI site Revenue per employee in Houston, US again achieved Gold status k in the Companys Health & Safety Awards 2008 127.7 with a further three sites receiving Silver accreditation, showing successful achievement 2009 131.1 in providing a safer and healthier workplace.
2010 161.3 In addition, the recently-acquired Stera Tape 2011 166.0 2.9% business delivered significant improvement in its health and safety metrics towards our divisional standards.
In conjunction with 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items our comprehensive policies in this area, the division has achieved key international accreditations across its facilities, which are detailed on page19.
22 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Porous Technologies Technologies for everyday life From plug-in air fresheners to make-up applicators, office supplies to school products, our components are found in a range of consumer products Who we are and what we do How we do it The Porous Technologies division is a world Our objective is to leverage our technical leader in the development and production expertise in collaboration with our customers, of customised liquid and vapour handling to provide them with innovative, high quality, components, engineered from three material reliable, quick-to-market solutions to their technologies: bonded fibre, polyurethane respective fluid handling challenges.
The foam and porous plastic.
divisions R&D teams focus on each of our three material technologies, and constantly We manufacture components which develop new intellectual property regarding serve as a critical part of a variety materials, processes and applications, with a of end-products, including medical view to providing new and existing customers diagnostic devices, wound care products, with unique solutions.
Our orientation towards writing instruments, printer cartridges, R&D further enables us to offer prototypes air fresheners and cosmetic applicators.
and modifications, to ensure components fit perfectly to our customers application.
We serve customers in over 56 countries from four manufacturing facilities in three We seek to use our global footprint to provide countries, each of which houses its own our customers with shorter lead times and product development and commercial supply security.
As our multiple locations utilise teams.
Supporting the division globally are identical proprietary processes and independent two R&D facilities in the US, with regional supply chains, we are able to provide a reliable teams supporting product development in source of back-up supply capability around the other geographies.
In addition, our global outlook allows us to respond to the differing needs of our customers in differing geographies and cultures.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 23 2012 key initiatives Open new commercial site in Singapore, and capture additional business in Asian markets Further commercial expansion of products using porous plastics Full global commercialisation of HRM inkjet printer cartridge RUSS ROGERS President, Porous Technologies Revenue by end-market % 4.3% 5 1.
10.9 Household products Porous materials Quality is at the forefront of the divisions 5.
9.6 Other Using a range of efforts, given the critical role our products materials to develop play in our customers end products.
Each 3 liquid-handling of our production sites is ISO 9000:2008 components for air certified, and our facility in St. Charles, US fresheners, and other is also ISO 13485:2003 certified.
Quality 2 products requiring laboratories at each of our facilities provide liquid evaporation consistent checks throughout the production process, to assure reliability and satisfaction Revenue by destination % to our customers.
36.4 Europe 3 Revenue increased 5.6% at constant 2.
35.2 North America 1 exchange to 77.9m and operating profit 3.
28.4 Rest of World rose 5.7% at constant exchange to 18.4m, with the operating margin unchanged.
Revenue growth of 40% in printer systems c. 30% of divisional revenue was driven by 2 next generation platform launches by global original equipment manufacturer accounts.
Healthcare c. 20% of divisional revenue was up 3%, with an underlying improvement of 8% being partially offset by the strong ISO 9000 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 prior year comparative relating to the H1N1 Porous Technologies Richmond flu epidemic.
Porous Technologies Ningbo Porous Technologies Reinbek The writing instruments business c. 30% Porous Technologies St Charles of divisional revenue was down 8% as result of lower consumption of branded ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance products.
Household products and personal ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance care together c. 10% of divisional revenue OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational declined by 3% compared to prior year, health commitment and performance largely due to inventory fide-stocking by a key customer.
24 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Porous Technologies continued High performance Depth filters create high performing pipette tip filters with low contamination and uniform air flow Research & Development Dedicated R&D equipment and a quality control lab enable the delivery of reliable solutions that are critical to end products The remaining c. 10% of divisional revenue where our replacement technology provides A number of operational initiatives were comprises a number of other markets, plus a number of customer benefits.
In the former, successfully completed during the year, the supply of a sophisticated filter product, our polymer-based product replaces typical including initiating a new commercial site manufactured at the Porous Technologies clay wicks, being not only resilient to high in Singapore and the transfer of production Reinbek, Germany facility and sold internally temperatures but also providing superior capacity and equipment for pregnancy test to the Filter Products division.
Excluding revenue performance versus competing technologies.
Our new office in Singapore from this line of business, revenue from the And in the latter, our product provides more will act as the regional headquarters for the core technologies, products and markets of consistent evaporation when compared to growth businesses in the Asia Pacific region, the Porous Technologies division was up 7%.
bamboo, while at the same time being able providing dedicated local support to the to be manufactured in a variety of shapes growing needs of our Asian customer base, Higher raw materials costs were successfully and colours to accommodate customers and allowing a more timely and tailored offset through waste reduction, efficiency specifications.
And towards the end of the reponse to their technical and development projects and process automation conversions.
year, we introduced a new range of hydrophilic requirements.
There was also further capacity polyurethane foams for advanced wound expansion at the St. Charles foam site for In 2011, the division continued its successful care, including ultra-soft, highly absorbent medical wound care products, at Reinbek track record of converting its intellectual Medisponge SuperSoft foams and ultrato enable European manufacture of printer property and manufacturing know-how into durable, fibre-reinforced Medisponge systems products for the global customer commercial success.
We introduced a range of composite foams.
base, and at Richmond for porous plastics.
next generation printer system products with improved designs and performance.
We also The commercial expansion of products using Our responsibilities commercialised next generation technology porous plastics is ahead of expectations.
Similar for both anti-flood hCG wicks, and for in nature to our other technologies, porous We are focused on the delivery of the highest trocar surgical equipment which is used in plastic components are engineered from a standards of safety, quality and performance keyhole procedures and where our product variety of raw materials, each with differing across all our international operations.
Our is a component of the device used to improve properties such as pore size, density, chemical global initiatives continue to keep our employees camera optics.
Additionally, we developed resistance, rigidity and hydrophobicity.
This focused on driving to zero lost time accidents and commercialised new wick technologies technology allows us to increase our reach and zero environmental accidents.
As evidence for liquid-based insecticide repellent devices in the fluid handling space, accelerating our of this commitment, the divisions largest facility and synthetic bamboo air freshener devices entry into new markets and further expansion at Richmond now has a track record of over both of which are established markets, but in existing markets.
three years without a lost time accident.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 25 What we measure Why we measure it How we have done Innovation percentage Demonstrates the 9.4% of sales derived from success of new products of revenue generated from products new products and technology launched in the last three years Sustained IP Continued development 25 development of intellectual property Currently 25 2010: 24 patents to support future growth in force for the US, with 21 and strong development 2010: 24 applications pending project pipeline Customer complaints Drives performance 16.7% of quality systems 55 complaints being a 16.7% and service delivery improvement versus 2010 Man hours Indicative of shop 2.23 per machine hour floor productivity 2010: 2.21 man hours per machine hour Key financial highlights Revenue m 2008 49.7 Wicking materials In addition, this site was also awarded 2009 66.0 Designed from a Gold Achievement Award from the 2010 74.7 bonded fibres use American Heart Association for our 2011 77.9 4.3% capillary science focus on employee Health &Wellness.
to move liquids During the year, we made further progress 1 Operating profit in reducing our environmental impact: m general waste was down by a double-digit 2008 9.0 percentage, while our energy use and CO 2 emissions rose by less than our revenue growth.
2009 14.5 2010 17.7 We were very proud to receive the 2011 18.4 4.0% Chief Executives Special Award for the development of a recycle extruder which converts manufacturing waste into usable 1 Operating margin material for instrument reservoirs by our % Richmond, US site.
Over the last two years, 2008 18.1 this project has delivered a 12% saving on waste, as well as an estimated US$100,000 2009 22.0 reduction in raw material and landfill costs 2010 23.7 and the associated effect on CO emissions.
2 2011 23.6 10bps We were similarly very pleased to receive Gold status in the Filtrona Health & Safety Awards for our Richmond and St. Charles Revenue per employee sites, with Silver being awarded to the k Reinbek facility.
2008 110.1 2009 148.0 2010 164.2 2011 170.2 3.7% 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 26 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Packaging solutions Labels and tapes from Payne provide on-shelf impact for brands Coated & Security Products Revenue by end-market % Revenue by destination % 3 1.
15.6 Other 4 3 2 20,000 ID cards Over 20,000 personalised ID cards can be printed each hour by Payne Security Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 27 BRC IOP Global Standard for OHSAS Packaging ISO 9000 ISO 14001 18001 Materials SA 8000 Payne Nottingham Payne Banbury Payne Cardiff 2012 key initiatives Payne Richmond Payne So Paulo Continued expansion of tear tape and label-based Payne Bangalore packaging solutions Payne Surabaya Further investment in authentication technologies Enitor and manufacturing capability Successful delivery of Blue Badge scheme in the UK, and pursuit ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance of further identity solutions contracts on an international basis ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance Integration of recently-acquired Securit OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational health commitment and performance BRC IOP is the global standard for packaging and packaging materials SA 8000 is the international standard for human rights principles Who we are and what we do How we do it Our Coated & Security Products division Our objective is to use our business comprises the following activities.
development philosophy and resource to identify innovation opportunities and translate Payne is the leading global manufacturer these into novel, workable solutions for new and supplier of pressure sensitive tear tape, and existing customers.
We seek to leverage and a growing provider of labels, closures our well-invested, developing international and seals, to the consumer packaging market.
footprint to provide market-leading quality and service on a global basis, underpinned TONY EDWARDS Payne Security is a leading supplier to by our motivated and well-trained employees.
Managing Director, the identity and valuable document and Coated & Security Products consumer packaging markets, providing Payne manufactures a range of tapes, labels, a range of authentication technologies, closures and seals which offer functional printed film and card-based solutions.
benefits to the principal packaging for consumer products, such as easy opening or resealability.
Payne and Payne Security together serve Our products are also the ideal medium to carry customers in over 100 markets from seven sophisticated branding and communication 6.9% manufacturing facilities in five countries.
messages, in the form of printed images, text or They are supported by an in-house design data.
Additionally, we look to add value to our Revenue growth studio, a research & development facility customers packaging through providing brand and multi-million pound print capabilities.
protection technology from Payne Security.
Enitor comprises plastic profile extrusion Payne Security provides security technologies activities, and is based in The Netherlands.
and innovations to governments and brand owners worldwide, to enable them to identify valuable documents and products in the fight against counterfeiting.
Our offering comprises overt, covert and forensic technologies, including inks, lacquers, laminates, labels, tear tapes and thread.
These products have a wide application including: national identity documents such as passports, identity cards and visas : card- 28 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Coated & Security Products continued 300m Over 300 million unique codes can be printed on Payne Supastrip VDP tape QR codes enable consumers to access more information on brands through their mobile devices based solutions to Government agencies technology delivers a robust and cost-effective Following the year end, we announced the to provide data protection or to prove identity solution to governments and industry for acquisition of 100% of the share capital or entitlement to services : banknotes and protecting against fraudulent and counterfeit of Securit World Ltd Securit for a cash bonds: and branded consumer goods.
activity, by differentiating between genuine consideration of 6m.
Securit distributes and fake products or documents.
The system desktop personal identification card systems, How we performed in 2011 integrates an invisible chemical marker, usually providing printers, software and associated incorporated into inks and lacquers used to accessories across a wide range of growing Revenue increased 6.5% at constant exchange print product packaging, security documents end-markets, including trade distribution, to 98.2m.
Adjusting for the contribution and fiscal stamps, which can only be identified education, government, health and general from the BP Labels business acquired in February using a  reader device.
The acquisition of UK-based Securit 2010 and the divestment of FractureCode adds to the existing capabilities of our Payne in July 2011, like-for-like growth was 5.5%.
Enitor delivered an improved result, boosted Security personal identification products Adjusted operating profit increased 5.5% by successful new business development, with business and provides new opportunities at constant exchange to 15.4m.
revenue growth and operating margin expansion.
in adjacent attractive growth sectors, such as access control and membership.
Tear tape revenue increased 8%, behind During the year we re-focused our go-to-market the continued success of sales of tapes efforts on packaging solutions and authentication Further to a strategic review of the divisions for consumer messaging, promotions and and identity solutions, so as to leverage our track and trace activities, the FractureCode competitions across a range of categories capabilities better and provide our customers business was divested.
including tobacco, confectionery and savoury with even greater value-added propositions.
In particular, we delivered a strong Our responsibilities performance from wide-width message A continued focus on efficiency improvements, tapes and a new opening solution in the US including waste reduction from product As a business we believe in careful stewardship food market.
Growth in Labels 23% came and process redesign in tear tape, helped to of the environment in which we operate particularly in tobacco, and included the mitigate the margin impact of the loss of the and embody this philosophy in our business incremental impact of the BP Labels business UK Passport contract.
During the year, we continued to now known as Payne Cardiff.
Further develop sustained, long-term environmental progress was made in building the pipeline Driven by investment in machinery and programmes effecting CO emission reduction, 2 of 2012 prospects for new packaging capability for volume badge production, waste reduction, waste recycling, ecological solutions based on our tape and label we succeeded in securing the opportunity impact and ongoing energy efficiency manufacturing and application capability.
to provide the next generation Blue Badge in the UK.
As part of the new scheme, a Revenue from the Payne authentication system secure card is printed and mailed to registered was ahead 29% and, in our centenary year, disabled users, to evidence their entitlement the business gained the Queens Award for to free parking.
In addition, further investments Enterprise in the Innovation category for the were made at the Banbury site during 2011, successful development and commercialisation expanding the authentication technologies of this proprietary technology.
This new security manufacturing capability.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 29 What we measure Why we measure it How we have done Innovation percentage of Demonstrates the success of 29% packaging sales derived from new products and technologies of revenue generated recently developed products from products launched in the last three years Innovation development Shows the amount of new 89 of new tooling in extrusion tooling being introduced to new tools introduced expand production capabilities compared to 81 in 2010 On Time in Full Drives performance of 98.9% security quality security systems compares to and service delivery 98.7% for 2010 On Time in Full Drives performance of 99.9% document authentication quality security systems compares to and service delivery 99.6% for 2010 Customer satisfaction Drives performance of quality 6% customer complaints systems and service delivery a 6% improvement in complaints from 2010 Key financial highlights Revenue m improvements.
And we continued to make 2008 86.1 further progress against these objectives in 2011, with a particularly pleasing reduction in CO 2009 87.3 2 emissions, energy use and water consumption.
2010 91.9 2011 98.2 6.9% In 2011, Payne Cardiff secured ISO 14001 accreditation and is on schedule to achieve 1 00th year OHSAS 18001 in 2012.
Details of the 1 Operating profit In its centenary international accreditations held across m year Payne Security the division are shown on page 27.
2008 10.0 received the Queens Award We were very proud to receive the Group 2009 12.2 for Enterprise for Environmental Award for Payne India, whose 2010 14.7 its covert product submission demonstrated a commitment to 2011 15.4 4.8% authentication system energy and carbon reduction with support for the local community.
We were equally pleased to receive Gold status in the Filtrona Health 1 Operating margin & Safety Awards for our Richmond, US and % India facilities, with a further two Silver awards 2008 11.6 being presented to our sites in Indonesia and Banbury, UK.
2009 14.0 2010 16.0 We seek to monitor employee satisfaction 2011 15.7 30bps by ensuring a high degree of management engagement with employees at all our locations.
To this end, our three UK sites Revenue per employee were awarded the Gold Standard for Investor k in People towards the end of the year.
2008 142.3 2009 157.8 2010 159.2 2011 170.9 7.3% 1 Before intangible amortisation and exceptional operating items 30 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Filter Products Growing demand Asia is one of the fastest growing regions accounting for 54% of divisional volume in the year Who we are and what we do The Filter Products division supplies over 700 product specifications to over 300 customers, Our Filter Products division is the world-leading including all the multinational tobacco companies.
independent provider of filter solutions to the We have nine manufacturing facilities in nine tobacco industry, and comprises the following countries, supported by a UK-based research businessactivities.
facility and three regional development centres.
Our Filters business is the only global How we do it independent supplier of filters.
Not only do we offer standard filters, but as the Our objective is to develop value-creating leading provider of special filters, we partnerships with our customers.
We seek offer innovative solutions that meet the to leverage our long-standing experience, consumer-driven demands of the tobacco expertise and insight to provide innovative industry against a backdrop of ongoing solutions to brand differentiation and identity, legislative changes.
as well as excellence in both manufacturing and service.
Our recognised ability to provide We also increasingly provide adjacent new, value-added products and services services to the tobacco industry.
Our is key to the divisions future growth, as Scientific Services facility is one of the market dynamics in the tobacco industry few independent accredited laboratories continue to evolve.
for the testing of cigarettes and filters, serving both independent and multinational customers.
Additionally, we offer a full bespoke service for the design, packing and packaging of filters for roll your own RYO brands, providing an efficient and cost-effective solution to delivering retail-ready product to the market.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 31 2012 key initiatives Further market and geographical penetration, to extend reach Continued growth with independent customers Increased new product development, supported by technical services personnel Benefit from ongoing trend to more specialised filters, while continuing to offer attractive low cost propositions Introduce new talent management framework PT SREEKUMAR Managing Director, Filter Products Sales volume by type % 4 1.
35.9 Europe Research in filters is carried out at the Slim & Super Slims 3.
14.9 North America Filtrona Technology Centre in the UK, One of the fastest supported by three regional development growing segments centres.
Together, they work closely with in the world customers, to understand their specific growing over needs and to deliver solutions at a pace 10times faster than 2 appropriate to local market conditions.
the overall market Our offering is further enhanced by our ability to complement customers own strengths and assets in a variety of tolling, or outsourced management, relationship Integrated ISO ISO OHSAS Management SA arrangements, as well as our growing 9000 14001 18001 System 8000 IQRS adjacent services activities.
Jarrow 7 We continuously upgrade our technology Filters Tech.
Centre and footprint, to ensure we exceed our Italy 7 customers expectations and remain Jordan at the forefront of market trends.
Our Hungary 5 flexible global manufacturing capability Greensboro 7 allows us to respond rapidly to market Thailand 5 changes and customer demand for surge Indonesia 6 volumes, while a consistent focus on high standards of quality, cost control and India 7 production efficiency act as further Paraguay sources of competitiveadvantage.
ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for occupational health commitment and performance SA 8000 is the international standard for human rights principles IQRS is a global quality system which drives towards business excellence through a comprehensive audit system 32 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Filter Products continued 2 7,000m New custom-built facility in Thailand 20% Ultra low is the fastest growing tar segment in the world and over 20% of the filters are produced by Filtrona How we performed in 2011 Higher raw material and other input In addition, we delivered positive costs were successfully mitigated by operational improvements at our site Revenue increased 4.2% at constant continued productivity improvements, in Hungary in line with expectations, exchange to 208.0m and operating quality enhancement, and cost reduction as well as realising the targeted benefits profit was up 3.8% at constant exchange initiatives implemented in 2010. from a general restructuring of our to 24.5m, with the operating margin European activities.
Underlying volumes In order to be better-positioned to service increased 2% versus the prior year, with the growing Asian market and to take During the year, there was a fire at the growth coming particularly in Asia and advantage of new business opportunities, Paraguay facility, but no disruption in the Europe, and with both the multinational the Filter Products head office was relocated supply to customers was incurred.
In addition, our Filthai operation seamless supply capability reflects the in Thailand moved to a new custom-built benefits of our contingency planning and Revenue growth was supported by facility in Bangkok.
These larger premises, the alternative sources with which we are an increased number of successful which allow for increased production and able to provide our customers as a result new product launches, development future expansion, have been designed of our flexible manufacturing footprint.
initiatives and wider service offerings versus for optimum machine layout and material 2010.
In filters, a number of premium storage.
In 2011, Asia accounted for 54% Our responsibilities variants were introduced including flavour of volumes FY 2010: 52%.
capsules and super slim combinations, as We are committed to the environment and well as three new RYO products.
There Following a strategic review, and in order its sustainability and, in seeking to secure was also a strong increase in the level of to continue to improve our service to our operational efficiencies and cost reductions, sample and joint development activities North American customers, we expanded the division focuses on the optimisation and intellectual property commercialisation, our Greensboro, US factory.
This investment of energy usage and the development of with a positive contribution from all three programme was completed in three months, new sustainable solutions.
Overall, the division and Greensboro now offers high speed performed well, increasing its customers machines for complex filter products as and the number of laboratory accreditations well as a development and innovation centre.
during the year, as well as further extending The expansion at Greensboro will also allow packaging services for the RYO market.
us to respond more rapidly to regulatory This improvement was supported by the changes in the US tobacco industry.
As a re-focusing of the division during the year result of this expansion in North America, behind three go-to-market units: filters, the facility in Monterrey, Mexico was closed.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Business Review | Review of Operations 33 What we measure Why we measure it How we have done Conversion costs as Continued focus delivers 28.5% percentage of sales financial performance an improvement from 30.5% in 2010 On Time in Full Demonstrates the ability 96% to meet delivery demands the same rate as 2010 Quality complaints Drives performance of quality 3.7 per billion rods systems and service delivery complaints per billion rods, a decrease from 3.8 in 2010 Waste Drives productivity and the 3.0% efficient use of material an improvement from 3.3% in 2010 Key financial highlights Revenue m 1st 2008 187.5 Patented Cavitec Having introduced a division-wide system filter technology and been able to demonstrate improvement 2009 202.9 used in the worlds and accreditation in energy, in 2011 we 2010 200.7 first super slim size delivered against our three objectives 2011 208.0 3.6% cavity product of i continuing to reduce our energy consumption, with usage down across all sites: ii reduction of landfill, with a 1 Operating profit strong decrease across virtually all forms of m waste: and iii reduction in air miles impact, 2008 19.8 which declined by a mid-teens percentage.
2009 22.1 Across the division, health and safety 2010 23.7 performance has shown further improvements, 2011 24.5 3.4% with a 56% reduction in lost time accidents and a 38% decrease in man days lost.
As a result, we were very pleased to receive Gold 1 Operating margin status again for the ITC Filtrona India and % Jordan facilities in the Filtrona Health & Safety 2008 10.6 awards, with a further three Silver accreditations being given to the division.
Combined with 2009 10.9 our comprehensive programmes in this area, 2010 11.8 Filter Products has achieved key international 2011 11.8 0bps accreditations across its facilities, which are detailed on page 31.
Four of our sites now hold Level 7 accreditation by IQRS, an internationally Revenue per employee recognised standard for businessexcellence.
