Finance Directors review continued Interest rate risk With regard to balance sheet translation risk, the Group hedges Goodwill Seasonality The Group reduces exposure by using a combination of fixed rate part of its exposure to the impact of exchange rate movements on The goodwill impairment charge of 5.0m during the year relates to The First Student business generates lower revenues and profits in debt and interest rate derivatives to achieve an overall fixed rate translation of foreign currency net assets by holding currency swaps the loss making contract in First Transit described above.
Goodwill the first half of the year than in the second half of the year as the position over the medium-term of between 75% and 100% of net and net borrowings in foreign currencies.
At 31 March 2011 foreign was tested for impairment in all cash generating units CGUs and school summer holidays fall into the first half.
At 31 March 2011 87% 2010: 100% of net debt was fixed currency net assets were 62% 2010: 63% hedged.
there is more than sufficient headroom in all of the CGUs.
It should profits are typically higher in the first half of the year due to demand and in excess of 85% of net debt is fixed for the next two years.
be noted that the headroom on First Student has reduced to 243m being strongest in the summer months.
Shares in issue 2010: 630m reflecting the disappointing results during the year Fuel price risk As at 31 March 2011 there were 480.8m shares in issue 2010: and the length of time that it will take the recovery plan to be fully Going concern In the UK, 90% of crude oil costs were hedged at an average rate 480.2m, excluding treasury shares and own shares held in trust for delivered.
The projections for this business assume the incremental The Group has established a strong balanced portfolio of businesses of $76 per barrel during the year.
At the end of the year we have employees of 1.3m 2010: 1.9m.
The weighted average number of benefits of the recovery plan together with a moderate economic with approximately 50% of Group revenues secured under mediumhedged 82% of our at risk UK crude requirements for the year to shares in issue for the purpose of basic EPS calculations excluding recovery.
As a result operating profits and margins are projected to term contracts with government agencies and other large 31 March 2012 2.6m barrels p. a. at $88 per barrel and 34% of our treasury shares and own shares held in trust for employees was recover to historic levels by the end of 2013 14.
The First Student organisations in the UK and North America.
requirements for the year to 31 March 2013 at $94 per barrel.
margin would need to fall in excess of 1.5% compared to future The Group has a diversified funding structure with an average projections for there to be a goodwill impairment on this business.
In North America 90% of crude oil costs were hedged at an average life of 6.1 years at March 2011, and which is largely represented Balance sheet rate of $89 per barrel during the year.
At the end of the year we have by a medium-term unsecured syndicated committed bank facility Net assets have increased by 40.4m since the start of the year.
The Foreign exchange hedged 59% of the at risk volume for the year to 31 March 2012 and long-term unsecured bond debt.
The Group has $1,250m principal reasons for this are favourable hedging reserve movements The most significant exchange rates to Sterling for the Group are 1.7m barrels p. a. at $95 per barrel.
In addition we have hedged 22% of committed revolving banking facilities of which $845m was of 149.4m, the retained profit for the year of 117.1m and the retail as follows: of at risk volumes for the year to 31 March 2013 at $92 per barrel.
This facility expires in December 2015. price index RPI to consumer price index CPI change on certain Year to Year to defined benefit pension arrangements of 84.9m which were partly The Directors have carried out a detailed review of the Groups Foreign currency risk 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 offset by unfavourable foreign currency movements of 143.4m, budget for the year to 31 March 2012 and medium-term plans, Group policies on foreign currency risk affecting cash flow, profits Closing Effective Closing Effective rate rate rate rate dividend payments of 113.2m and actuarial losses on defined with due regard for the risks and uncertainties to which the Group and net assets are maintained to minimise exposures to the Group benefit pension schemes of 55.5m.
is exposed, the uncertain economic climate and the impact that US Dollar 1.60 1.56 1.49 1.57 by using a combination of natural hedge positions and derivative this could have on trading performance.
Canadian Dollar 1.57 1.56 1.53 1.60 instruments where appropriate.
Translation risk relating to US Dollar earnings arising in the US is largely offset by US Dollar denominated Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the costs incurred in the UK, principally UK fuel costs, US Dollar interest Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence Pensions and tax costs so that exposure to EPS on a year to year basis is for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have The Group has updated its pension assumptions as at 31 March not significant.
been prepared on a going concern basis and details of the going 2011 for the defined benefit schemes in the UK and North America.
concern review are shown on page 52 of the Directors Report.
In addition, during the year the Government announced its intention to change the measure that it uses for cost of living increases to Net debt Jeff Carr public sector pensions and to change the basis for the statutory The Groups net debt at 31 March 2011 was 1,949.4m 2010: 2,281.5m and comprised: Finance Director revaluation and indexation of occupational pension schemes in 11 May 2011 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 the private sector.
Increases to pensions in payment and deferred Fixed Variable Total Total pensions in the Local Government Pension Schemes and the m m m m Railways Pension Scheme are expected to be linked to the rise in 1 Sterling bond 2013 298.0 298.0 297.5 the CPI in future rather than the rise in the RPI, as are revaluations 2 Sterling bond 2018 325.9 325.9 350.7 to deferred pensions in the Group Scheme and the UK Bus 2 Sterling bond 2019 273.4 273.4 294.2 Occupational Scheme.
3 Sterling bond 2021 331.1 331.1 341.3 1 The net pension deficit of 331m at the beginning of the year has Sterling bond 2024 199.0 199.0 198.9 decreased to 243m at the end of the year principally due to the Sterling bank loans 10.5 change to CPI instead of RPI which has had the impact of reducing US Dollar bank loans 506.3 506.3 699.0 pension liabilities at 31 March 2011 by 85m.
Canadian Dollar bank loans 113.1 113.1 156.3 Euro and other bank loans 29.0 29.0 30.2 The main factors that influence the balance sheet position for HP contracts and finance leases 163.6 88.3 251.9 227.4 pensions and the sensitivities to their movement at 31 March 2011 Loan notes 8.7 1.0 9.7 10.5 are set out below: Cash 89.4 89.4 76.0 UK Rail ring-fenced cash and deposits 283.8 283.8 234.2 Movement Impact Other ring-fenced cash and deposits 14.8 14.8 24.8 Discount rate 0.1% Reduce deficit by 24m Interest rate swaps 374.0 374.0 Inflation 0.1% Increase deficit by 14m Total 1,700.3 249.1 1,949.4 2,281.5 1 Excludes accrued interest 2 Stated excluding accrued interest, swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives 3 Stated excluding accrued interest, partially swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives Leverage reduction is a key priority.
At 31 March 2011 the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times 2010: 3.0 times and it is expected that this ratio will continue to decrease in the year to 31 March 2012.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Operating and financial review Board of Directors 1 Member of the Audit Sidney Barrie Jeff Carr Audrey Baxter Professor Colin Hood John Sievwright Martyn Williams Martin Gilbert Tim OToole Committee Non-Executive David Begg BSc MSc FIET DHC MA CA LLD MA LLB CA CBE JD LLB BEng ACMA DBA LLD DipAcc BA 2 Member of the Remuneration 4,5 4,5 Employee Director Non-Executive Senior Independent Chairman Chief Executive Commercial Director Finance Director Non-Executive DSc BA Committee 1,2, 3 4,5 1,2, 3 Director Non-Executive Chairman of the Company Secretary Director Non-Executive 3 Member of the Nomination 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Appointed to the Board Director Nomination Chairman of the Appointed to the Board Director Appointed to the Board Committee 3 Chairman of the Committee Remuneration as Employee Director Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive in September 2009 as 4 Member of the Executive Audit Committee Committee in January 2003, he is Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Safety Committee in August 2005 as Finance Director, he Director in May 2009, A Chartered Accountant, 5 Member of the Executive currently serving a third Commercial Director and as a Non-Executive Director in May 2009, he he was subsequently joined the Group from Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board Committee he is one of the founders term as Employee Director in August 2005. is a Director and Chief subsequently Company easyJet plc where he appointed as Group in May 2002, he was, as a Non-Executive and Chief Executive Director.
He joined He is Chief Executive of Operating Officer of Chief Operating Officer was Group Finance Director in August 2006. until 2008, a Senior Vice of Aberdeen Asset as a customer services Transport Times and a Scottish and Southern the Group from Paull & Director since 2005. in June 2010 and as President and Chief She is Chairman and Management PLC.
He supervisor in Swansea Williamsons, solicitors Non-Executive Director Energy plc.
He is Chief Executive in Prior to that he held a Chief Executive of W. A.
Operating Officer of was appointed to the and has worked for the of BAA Limited.
He is Chairman of Forth in Aberdeen, where he number of senior November 2010.
He International for Merrill Baxter & Sons Limited.
Board of FirstGroup plc Group for 33 years.
was a senior partner also Chairman of the Energy, a Director of was, until the end of financial roles at She has held a number Lynch & Co. A Chartered in 1995.
He is Chairman Business Infrastructure Scotia Gas Networks and Head of Corporate Associated British Foods April 2009, Managing Accountant, he has of non-executive of Chaucer Holdings acting for a number Commission and a Limited and a NonDirector, London plc, Reckitt Benckiser positions and was held various senior PLC and a director of Director of Portobello Executive Director of listed and private Group plc, Grand Underground.
He joined management positions formerly a member of a number of investment companies.
He is a of Southern Water Transport for London Metropolitan PLC and the Scottish Business in banking in London, trusts.
He is a Nonvisiting professor at Services Limited.
long association with Unilever plc.
He is a in 2003 prior to which New York, Dublin and Forum and the Scottish Executive Director of the Group in an advisory Plymouth University and he was President and Non-Executive Director Economic Council.
He is a member Primary Health Properties an adviser to Greater capacity going back of McBride plc.
Chief Executive of of the North American PLC and Aberdeen to the original employee Manchester Passenger Consolidated Rail Board of the Michael Football Club plc.
Until buy-out of GRT Bus Corporation.
He is a Smurfit Business School, Group PLC.
In his 2005 he was Chairman Non-Executive Director Dublin and a Nonof the Commission for current role he has of CSX Corporation, a Executive Director responsibility for a range Integrated Transport rail freight transportation of ICAP plc.
and a Non-Executive of commercial activities company in North across the Group.
Director of the Strategic America.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35 Report of the Directors Corporate governance The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is Governance framework evaluation review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior Shareholders and in depth knowledge and experience of the Groups business, management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information combined with his external business experience, enables him to is provided on their responsibilities and obligations under law, Board provide effective leadership of the Board and to continue to make regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process a positive contribution to the Groups ongoing business.
is supported during the year by the programme of business presentations described above.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which remain relatively unchanged from last year, are described in his The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the Executive Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee biography on page 34.
The Board performance evaluation process law and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
referred to below confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the necessary time available to f Performance evaluation devote to the proper performance of his duties as Chairman.
During the course of the year, the Board undertook an evaluation Executive Safety Executive Management Risk Group Committee Board of its performance.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the The Chief Executive Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure The Chief Executive is Tim OToole.
He also has a written statement that the Board, its Committees and each individual Director of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
continued to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of Williams is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, he expected of them and to identify any additional training requirements.
good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on cannot be considered to be independent.
However, the Board feels The Chief Executive is responsible for: A tailored questionnaire was developed, which each Director Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council strongly that it is beneficial for its employees to be represented on completed.
The responses were analysed and discussed at a in 2008 the Code.
The way in which it has applied those the Board in this way so that important employee-related issues running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the meeting of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive principles is set out below.
The Company has complied with all can be raised at the highest level and a two-way communication authorities delegated to him by the Board: Director led a process of evaluation of the performance of the of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
The new UK Corporate process between the management of the Company and its ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and Chairman.
No significant issues were raised in the course of the Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June employees is maintained.
strategy set by the Board for the Group: evaluation process.
2010 the New Code applies to the Company for the accounting day-to-day management of the executive and senior period commencing on 1 April 2011.
Therefore, the Company complies with the Code provision that at management team: g Re-election of Directors least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up Whilst the Company was not required to comply with the New Code leading the development of senior management within the Group 1 The Board and its principal committees of Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to for the accounting period ended on 31 March 2011, all the Directors Details of the Board, its members and its principal committees be independent.
The Directors are satisfied that the current Board with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable are offering themselves for re-election in accordance with the individuals for future Director roles: are set out below.
possesses the breadth of business, financial and international provisions of the New Code at the Annual General Meeting to be experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner held on Friday 15 July 2011.
1.1 The Board the size and complexity of the Group.
of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and a Board structure and responsibilities developments: and h Appointment of Non-Executive Directors The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive c Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive leading the development of the Groups future strategy including Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets The Chairman identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
at least nine times each year and is responsible for setting and The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
They have letters of appointment which are available on request reviewing the Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing the statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board.
financial and operational performance of each of the Groups d Senior Independent Non-Executive Director business units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the Groups The Chairman is responsible for: John Sievwright, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior i Directors and Officers liability insurance annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a regular basis its leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance longer-term business plans.
It also has a schedule of matters of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of cover throughout the year as permitted by the Companies Act 2006. specifically reserved to it including approval of the half-year and relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve The cover was renewed on 1 April 2011. full-year financial statements, financing arrangements, material or for which such contact is inappropriate.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the capital commitments, business acquisitions and disposals, provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board: 2 Committees of the Board relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and e Information and professional development ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, accounting policies.
of Board members Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: the terms of reference for which are published on the Companys The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also During the year, the Board met nine times and all members of the managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board delegated certain matters to Committees.
The principal such Board attended all meetings whilst they were members.
the discussion of complex or contentious issues: members have direct access to senior executives should they wish Committees are: ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
On 8 June 2010, Nicola Shaw, Director Bus UK, Ireland and a whole, its Committees and individual Directors: The head of each operating division attends Board meetings 2.1 Executive Safety Committee ESC Germany resigned as a Director.
on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly about the performance of and current issues facing that division.
of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to basis.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers On 1 November 2010, Sir Moir Lockhead, Chief Executive, resigned Management give presentations on current issues facing enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: and safety officers.
The ESC reviews the Groups safety performance as a Director but remained as an employee of the Group until his the business.
and practices, develops safety policies and procedures and facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors retirement on 31 March 2011. and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and follows up on outstanding issues.
During the year a number of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the meetings were attended by independent safety experts and senior Non-Executive Directors: b Board balance and independence Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent representatives of relevant industry bodies, including the Health & The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance Safety Executive.
reviewed against the definition of independence in the Code.
new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to of their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising Audrey Baxter, David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright are ensure their early contribution to the Board: and the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring considered to be independent within this definition.
As Martyn encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued 2.2 Executive Management Board EMB and other senior managers attended where requested and The business considered and discussed by the Committee during 4.2 Control environment The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain as appropriate.
the year included the reports of the external auditors on the The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts half-year and full-year results, the 2011 12 internal audit plan and moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with as a general operating management committee and meets on a The Board considers that each member of the Committee has budget, papers concerning any regular and special audits and an which all managers and employees are required to comply.
The monthly basis to review outstanding issues and to consider the sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee executive summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis Group has a Code of Business Ethics, which is part of the Groups Groups operational and financial performance.
to discharge its functions effectively.
assessments and a review of the implications of changes in Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and applies to all of its accounting standards.
subsidiary undertakings, a copy of which is available on the 2.3 Executive Committee Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the effectiveness Companys website.
The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies 3 Financial reporting meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the and procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups In addition, the Board has established an anti-bribery policy ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief risk.
It also keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and pursuant to the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, a copy of which Executive and has specific delegated powers within prescribed audits conducted by the internal audit department and the external comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and is available on the Companys website.
It has also established a limits to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course of business auditors, the consistency of accounting policies and reporting prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and Group Hospitality and Gifts Register which records all hospitality which need to be considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
across the Group and the half-year and full-year financial statements other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published or gifts, the value of which exceeds a fide minimis amount, given before they are presented to the Board.
information including, but not limited to, the year-end and half-yearly or received by all Board and EMB members.
Additional Hospitality 2.4 Nomination Committee and appointments to the Board financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other and Gift Registers are also maintained at the divisional level The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert, the The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities ensuring that all senior management in the Group are required Chairman, and includes Audrey Baxter, David Begg, Colin Hood and Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and for preparing the financial statements may be found on page 53. to disclose hospitality or gifts given or received.
Tim OToole attends meetings of the Committee at effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal audit the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee and Martyn Williams department is focused on areas of priority as identified by risk 4 Internal controls The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with also attends such meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by The Board has established procedures to provide an ongoing lines of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Committee the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process risks faced by the Group and to meet the requirements of the Code manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Its recommendations are to ensure that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are and its related guidance on internal controls.
These procedures are business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and then put to the full Board for consideration.
The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of subject to regular review.
subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall direction of consultants are used to assist the process, where appropriate.
direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself 4.1 Responsibility a number of specific items, which ensures that it retains control During the year the Committee met twice and all members of the The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control over key business decisions and significant transactions in terms of Committee attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including external auditors and recommends to the Board the audit fee to be control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary lies treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, paid to the external auditors.
The Boards decision on these matters with the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of is subject to the approval of shareholders.
The independence, A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather these functions is monitored by an Executive Director.
the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of three objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors have been than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and three-year terms.
examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 4.3 Monitoring their terms of engagement, remuneration and proposal for partner material misstatement or loss.
The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a rotation.
The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated which complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising every five years.
Deloitte LLP were originally appointed in 1999.
The Board has continued to strengthen the ongoing process for The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies expertise.
However, no such appointment can be taken up without The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the by the Group.
As part of this process a Risk Group, comprising and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
These are prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to exception of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential senior management representatives from all of the Groups main also available on the Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by such outside directorships is set out on page 46 of the Directors acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the current businesses as well as from the finance, treasury, legal, insurance subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both Remuneration Report.
auditors knowledge of the Companys business processes and and internal audit functions, reviews the significant risks facing Group management and the Executive Directors.
Regular forecast controls means that they are best placed to undertake this work the Group.
The Risk Group, which is chaired by the Commercial updates are completed during the year and compared against 2.5 Remuneration Committee cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
Details of the audit and Director, meets at least four times annually and reports to the actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Audrey non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set Board with the express purpose of reviewing the risk and control operating performance, with a commentary on variances against Baxter, met eight times during the year and all members of the out in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee concluded procedures in each of the business areas and support functions.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Committee attended all of its meetings held whilst they were Directors that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees did not compromise As an integral part of planning and review, management from each Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are except for Audrey Baxter and Colin Hood, who were each absent audit independence.
of the business areas and support functions identify the risks facing monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate from one of these meetings.
Details of the membership of the their operations, as well as the controls in place to mitigate those in strategic reviews which include consideration of long-term Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the risks.
The probability of risks occurring as well as the likely impact financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
on pages 44 to 49, together with a statement of the Groups Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement on the Groups business, should the risks occur, are also assessed remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details of Directors of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the and documented.
These risks are assessed on a regular basis, Throughout the year internal audit conduct a comprehensive remuneration appear on page 47. external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external taking into account changes in both external and internal programme of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
auditors also meet separately with the Committee and or the circumstances, which may include alterations to regulatory These reviews invariably bring to light a number of minor control 2.6 Audit Committee Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report requirements, disruption to information systems, industrial relation weaknesses.
These are discussed with management and remedial The Audit Committee is chaired by John Sievwright and includes and Accounts and half-yearly Financial Report go through a detailed issues, control breakdowns, as well as changes in the economic action plans are agreed.
Where appropriate, follow up visits to the Audrey Baxter, David Begg and Colin Hood.
It met four times during verification and due diligence process involving external advisers.
climate and social, ethical and environmental issues.
From the operating entity then confirm that the action plans have been the year and all members attended each meeting except for Tim reports submitted to it by the Risk Group the Board is able to keep completed and that the controls that have been put in place are OToole who was absent from one of these meetings whilst he was The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other under regular review the major risks and mitigating controls facing working effectively.
No material losses, contingencies or a member.
The Group Director of Internal Audit and the Companys officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of the Group.
uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual external auditors attended all of these meetings.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external Report and Accounts have resulted from this process.
or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued 4.4 Risks and uncertainties Legislation and regulation Risk Impact Mitigating control There are a number of key potential risks and uncertainties that Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety without effective management could have an adverse impact on procedures, equipment specifications, employment requirements, the Groups performance.
environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating Competitive pressures Loss of business Focus on stakeholder requirements including service, quality issues and considerations.
These laws and regulations are and price Competitive pressures constantly subject to change.
The costs associated with complying Rail franchise agreements Potential termination of one or more of the rail Close monitoring and management of all franchise obligations All of the Groups businesses compete in the areas of pricing and with the adoption of new legislation, regulation or other laws and franchise agreements service and face competition from a number of sources.
reduced funding available for public transport could adversely impact the results of our operations.
Legislation and regulation Adverse impact on our ability to operate Regular lobbying of both Government and transport bodies and In UK Bus, the main competitor remains the car.
The cost of driving a monitoring of quality procedures car is often perceived as being lower than travelling by bus, especially To help mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes the if there is more than one person in the car.
To make bus travel an Group regularly lobbies both Government and transport bodies.
Labour costs and Inability to recruit and retain qualified Adoption of appropriate recruitment and retention, training and attractive alternative to the car, the Group continues to focus on employee relations employees working practices improvements to the whole bus journey experience, including working Labour costs and employee relations with its Local Authority partners to introduce bus priority measures Fuel costs Adverse impact on operating results Adoption of forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed costs together Labour costs represent the largest component of the Groups with efficiency and pricing measures and general infrastructure measures for the benefit of customers.
Future labour shortages or decreasing The UK Bus market is deregulated and very competitive with low unemployment rates could hinder the Groups ability to recruit Treasury risks and Funding not achieved adverse impact Comprehensive treasury management policies, monitoring and public subsidies.
There are over 500 bus operators in the UK and in and retain qualified employees leading to a higher than expected insurance costs on operating results oversight, and Group emphasis on safety all markets in which the Group operates it faces competitive activity.
increase in the cost of recruitment, training and other staff costs.
The success of deregulation is demonstrated by high levels of Pensions Material changes to accounting cost and Diversification of investments and regular review of customer satisfaction.
Notwithstanding this, there is currently ongoing In addition, it is important for a labour intensive Group that good cash requirements investment positions a Competition Commission Inquiry into the supply of local bus employee relations are maintained.
The Group seeks to mitigate services in the United Kingdom, excluding London and Northern Terrorism Reputational damage and the demand Implementation of security measures and the training these risks by its recruitment and retention policies, training Ireland.
The Competition Commission has recently published its for our services of employees schemes and working practices.
preliminary findings and we are currently reviewing these before Retention of key management Inability to execute Group strategy Adoption of market based compensation packages submitting our response.
Fuel costs Fuel prices and supply levels can be influenced significantly by The main competitor to the Groups UK Rail businesses is again the international, political and economic circumstances.
If fuel supply Customer service and Revenue levels reduce and impact on Intensive staff training on service requirements and close car and, to a lesser extent, long distance coach and budget airlines.
shortages were to arise because of national strikes, world supply associated contract retention brand image monitoring of service KPIs To help mitigate the risks posed by these pressures the Group is difficulties, disruption of refining capacity or oil imports, the resultant working with a number of local and national bodies to ensure that Environmental Financial loss reputational damage Detailed fuel handling procedures, monitoring of utilities usage, higher fuel prices and disruption to services could adversely impact the services provided meet, or exceed, the requirements of our adoption of emission reduction policies and comprehensive the Groups operating results and financial position.
Corporate Social Responsibility programmes To mitigate the risk of volatile fuel costs the Group regularly enters Economy Loss of business Organisational structure of businesses and close monitoring of In North America, the Groups businesses cover a wide geographic into forward contracts providing fixed prices.
In addition, the Group prices, capacity and demand spread competing with several large companies as well as a may limit the impact of unexpected fuel price rises through efficiency substantial number of smaller, locally owned operators.
competitors in the yellow school bus business also include school Pensions Retention of key management districts which self-operate approximately two thirds of yellow The Group has significant defined benefit pension obligations relating Attracting and keeping key members of senior management is Treasury risks and insurance costs school buses in North America.
Similarly, while there is a significant to its UK Bus, Rail and Greyhound businesses.
Under the franchise vital in ensuring that the Group continues to have the necessary The Board maintains a comprehensive policy for the management amount of transit and service businesses operated by private arrangements the UK Rail business is not responsible for any expertise and continuity to execute its strategy.
In order that of treasury risks.
These include liquidity risks and risks arising from entities, including several large companies, our First Transit and residual deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short-term management have diverse and challenging careers they are changes to foreign exchange rates, fuel prices and interest rates.
First Services businesses also compete with many public authorities cash-flow risk within this business.
For both UK Bus and Greyhound given autonomy, within parameters set by the Board, to run their This is set out in more detail in note 25 to the financial statements.
Our Greyhound coach operations the volatility of the underlying investments and liabilities can create businesses.
The Group also offers market based compensation The policy and delegated authorities are reviewed periodically to face competition from a number of other coach operators in North material changes in the accounting cost and cash requirements in packages consisting of an appropriate mix of longand shortensure compliance with best practice and to control and monitor America as well as from budget airlines.
In North America all of our subsequent years.
Through diversification of investments the Group term incentives.
businesses continue to compete on service, quality and price.
seeks to mitigate these risks, although in extreme market conditions it is not possible to completely negate them.
Customer service and associated contract retention The Group has three main insurable risks: third party claims arising Rail franchise agreements The Groups revenues are at risk if it does not continue to provide from vehicle and general operations, employee injuries and property The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part Terrorism the level of service expected by customers.
This could result in damage.
The size of the Groups operations is such that there is a of its rail franchise agreements.
If it fails to comply with these The threat from terrorism remains a concern in the countries in contracts not being renewed in the case of our North American high frequency of low value claims which the Group self-insures up conditions it may be liable to penalties including the potential which we operate.
We recognise that public transport has been business and passengers no longer using our services in the UK to certain limits, and purchases insurance above these limits from termination of one or more of the rail franchise agreements.
This subject to attack previously and it is important we take all and North America.
To mitigate this risk, relevant staff undertake reputable global insurance firms.
would result in the Group losing the right to continue operating the reasonable steps to help guard against such activity on any intensive training programmes to ensure they are aware of and affected operations and, consequently, the related revenues or cash of the services we operate.
Taking these steps helps protect our abide by the levels of service that are required by our customers Although the Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of the amounts set aside customers and staff, provides reassurance and supports our in each business.
The Board also monitors in detail a series of costs through its emphasis on safety, there can be no assurance as security for performance bonds and season ticket bonds.
commitment to safety and security.
Our Group Head of Security customer service KPIs at each meeting to ensure strict targets that future self-insurance and external insurance costs may not leads this and coordinates the work needed to respond effectively are being met.
adversely impact the Groups business and results of operations.
Compliance with franchise conditions is closely managed and to this threat.
This includes developing and applying good practice monitored on a monthly basis by senior management and and training our employees so that they can respond effectively to procedures are in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
any perceived threat or incident.
40 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Report of the Directors Corporate governance continued Environmental 4.7 Treasury operations b UK Rail 5 Relations with shareholders We store and manage large quantities of fuel at our maintenance The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital The Group recognises the importance of regular communication sites, which presents a potential regulatory and financial risk in treasury operations and this is set out in more detail in note 25 Connect, First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Accounts are the event of significant loss or spillage.
To mitigate these risks our to the financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been Western, are each party to a franchise agreement with Scottish made available to all shareholders and a Half-yearly Financial Report storage facilities are subject to regular inspection and all fuel formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice Ministers in respect of First ScotRail and with the Secretary of is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
These reports handling operations are subject to detailed operating procedures.
and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon State for Transport in respect of the other operators.
These are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties treasury and banking operations.
franchise agreements are subject to termination clauses which may with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational We are subject to ongoing changes in environmental regulations.
apply on a change of control.
These operators and the Groups performance, its financial results and prospects.
Our operations are covered by the Carbon Reduction Commitment Currency exchange rate fluctuation and exposure non-franchised rail operator, First Hull Trains, each hold railway Energy Efficiency Scheme, which came into force in April 2010.
The Groups principal operations are in the UK, the US and Canada licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : these All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, Purchasing of carbon allowances has now been delayed to 2012 and are therefore subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms of licences may be revoked on three months notice if a change of appointments, etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the and current proposals suggest the costs to the Group may be its trading activities and the translation of its financial statements.
control occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional higher than originally anticipated.
In response we have put in place The Group currently has a significant natural hedge arising from All of these operators also require and hold track access agreements shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are a comprehensive data management and reporting package for dollar-denominated earnings in the US businesses offset by dollarwith Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under which they are made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director following the monitoring the utilities usage covered by the regulations and are denominated interest costs and fuel costs in its UK businesses.
permitted to access railway infrastructure.
Failure by any of the announcement of the half-year and full-year results.
Other Directors, developing an energy reduction strategy to deliver greater operators to maintain its railway licence is a potential termination including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major reductions in energy usage.
4.8 Significant agreements change of control event under the terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups shareholders if requested.
a Financing agreements railway operators also lease rolling stock from specialist rolling stock Along with all businesses we face the challenge of addressing The Group has a number of syndicated facilities including a US leasing companies such as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from climate change, both managing its impact and reducing emissions, $1,250m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee facility Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
A material investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
The in line with the targets established in the Climate Change Act.
between, amongst others, the Company and The Royal Bank of number of the individual leasing agreements include change of Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with major Climate change has the potential to impact on our UK and North Scotland plc dated 9 December 2010.
The relevant syndicated control provisions.
shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they expect American operations, a risk we need to keep under review.
We financing agreements contain provisions entitling the lenders to that informal dialogue to continue.
continue to reduce our own emissions and promote passenger exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of c Joint venture agreements growth to ensure we capitalise on the opportunities the need to control of the Company.
Following any change of control of the The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK 6 Annual General Meeting reduce carbon emissions brings for a business such as ours that Company, the majority of the lenders are obliged to negotiate with Limited in relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the offers low carbon solutions to peoples mobility needs.
the Company with a view to resolving any concerns arising from relation to DSB First Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a such change of control and, if the matter has not been resolved to these joint venture agreements include provisions addressing report is made on the highlights of the key business developments Economy the reasonable satisfaction of the majority of the lenders in that time, change of control.
during the year under review.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, An economic downturn, whether at a global, regional or national then, if the majority of the lenders so require, the agent must cancel Remuneration and Audit Committees attend the Annual General level could have a negative impact on the Groups businesses and the total commitments under the facility and require prepayment d London bus contracts Meeting to answer specific questions from shareholders.
All the opportunity to grow existing contracts.
The level of economic of all outstanding amounts.
The Companys bilateral financing The Groups UK Bus business operates London bus routes with Directors who then held office were present at the 2010 Annual activity affects the number of bus and train journeys taken by agreements contain similar provisions and, following a change of London Bus Services Limited.
These agreements include change General Meeting.
passengers in the UK and North America.
Many areas of the control of the Company, the banks shall negotiate with the Company of control provisions and are significant when all the routes are Groups business offer a certain degree of protection against with a view to resolving any concerns arising from such change of considered together.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all economic downturn in specific geographic markets, in particular the control and, if the matter has not been resolved to the reasonable shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
North American school bus business and the revenue support and satisfaction of the banks in that time, they may if they so require 4.9 Auditors Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting profit sharing arrangements in place in certain rail franchises, the cancel the total commitments under the facilities and require Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on ability of most UK Bus operating companies to modify services on prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the all resolutions and, where votes are taken on a show of hands, giving 56 days notice and the even greater flexibility given to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
Greyhound operations, particularly in North America.
The 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013, the US $150m 4.26% notes due in three instalments of US $50m from 2016 to 2017, the 250m 4.5 Whistleblowing 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the The Group has well established procedures whereby employees 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021 and the 200m 6.875% bonds due may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to personal issues, 2024 issued by the Company may also be affected by a change of potential fraud, health and safety, harassment, discrimination, control of the Company.
A change of control in respect of the security or any other matter.
The confidential hotline covers all 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013 and the 250m 6.125% bonds due businesses across the Group and each country in which it operates.
2019 may result in an increase in the interest rate payable on those bonds of 1.5% per annum.
However, the interest rate on the bonds The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements will only be so increased if certain further conditions in relation to are satisfactory and will enable a proportionate and independent the credit rating of the bonds are also satisfied.
In respect of the investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action to 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due be taken.
2021 and the 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024, upon a change of control of the Company, together with the satisfaction of certain 4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls further conditions in relation to the credit rating of the bonds, the The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of bondholders have the option to require the Company to redeem the the system of internal controls for the year under review and to the bonds.
In respect of the US $150m 4.26% notes from 2016 to 2017, date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts through the upon a change of control, the Company must make an offer to monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors noteholders to prepay the notes.
confirm that they have kept under regular review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
42 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Structure of remuneration packages Bonus payments comprise a mixture of cash and deferred share Companys TSR is below median.
These vesting criteria are the same Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
It also There are currently five main elements to the executive remuneration awards.
The deferral period in respect of that part of any bonus as for that part of the 2008 and 2009 awards which is subject to TSR.
meets the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services package: award comprising deferred shares is three years.
The same Authority and describes how the Board has applied the main deferral period also applies to senior management within the Group.
As with the previous awards the foregoing EPS vesting targets for the basic salary and benefits in kind: supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Share awards will lapse if the relevant individual leaves the Group 2010 award and the level of the award as a factor of salary in relation annual cash and deferred share bonus both paid under the Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2008 the during the deferral period for any reason other than redundancy, to the Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee following Executive Annual Bonus Plan : Code relating to Directors remuneration.
The Company complies retirement or ill-health.
The Committee considers it is appropriate consultation with the six largest shareholders of the Company.
long-term incentive plan: with all of the provisions of the Code in respect of the Directors for a proportion of the annual bonus to be taken in the form of Remuneration Report.
A resolution to approve this report will be deferred shares as this acts as a retention mechanism and also Awards will lapse at the end of the performance period to the extent share schemes: and proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held aligns Executives longer-term interests with those of the that the performance conditions have not been satisfied.
The Committee considers the remuneration package as a whole, The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report to the As the award of any bonus is already dependent on the Following testing of the conditions for vesting of the 2008 award balancing each of the individual elements to ensure that, overall, Companys shareholders on the auditable part of the Directors achievement of stringent targets, the Committee considers that it is at 31 March 2011 the Committee decided that neither the EPS nor the remuneration received by each Executive Director is competitive Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part not appropriate to attach further performance conditions on vesting the TSR targets had been met and accordingly there has been no but not excessive, contains an appropriate balance between fixed of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the of the deferred share element of any bonus other than that the vesting of any part of the award.
The award has therefore lapsed.
and variable performance-related remuneration and that each Companies Act 2006.
This report has therefore been divided into relevant Executive remains employed by the Group and has not Executive Director will have sufficient long-term incentive to ensure separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
tendered his resignation at the end of the deferral period.
The Committee can set different performance conditions from those that his interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
described above and may also vary or adjust the performance Unaudited information The bonus awards for the year were 43.4% of basic salary in the conditions applying to awards which have been made to take The remuneration of the Executive Directors is made up of the Remuneration Committee case of the Chief Executive, 43.6% in the case of the Finance account of events the Committee considers exceptional, including following components: The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Audrey Baxter.
The Director and 43.6% in the case of the Commercial Director.
The technical events, such as changes in accounting standards and other current members of the Committee are David Begg, Colin Chief Executive has agreed to accept all of his bonus in the form treatment and the take-over of a company in the TSR comparator Basic salary and benefits in kind Hood and John Sievwright.
The Board considers each of the of deferred shares.
Each of the Finance Director and Commercial group, provided that in the opinion of the Committee the amended The basic salary and benefits in kind for each Executive Director members of the Committee to be independent in accordance with Director will receive 75% of their bonus in cash and the remaining condition is fair and reasonable and no less challenging than the are determined by the Committee for each financial year and when the Code.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal 25% in the form of deferred shares.
original condition would have been but for the event.
an individual changes position or responsibility.
In determining financial interest other than as a shareholder in the matters to be appropriate levels, the Committee considers the Group as a decided, conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or any A bonus of 43.6% of basic salary was paid to Sir Moir Lockhead, Generally awards under the LTIP to any participant in any one whole and also the packages received by similar individuals at involvement in the day-to-day running of the business.
75% of his bonus is payable in cash and financial year cannot exceed one and a half times basic salary at the the Companys peers in the public transport sector and other the remaining 25% is payable in shares which will vest on the date time of the award.
However, in exceptional circumstances, this may companies of comparable market capitalisation.
Details of the The terms of reference of the Committee were updated and of grant.
be increased to up to two times basic salary.
Awards under the LTIP salaries and benefits in kind received by each of the Executive adopted in October 2010 and are available on request and are also are not pensionable.
Directors in the year are shown on page 47. published on the Companys website.
These terms of reference will Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP be kept under review to take into account changes to the Code The LTIP was established in 2008 and provides for the award to Share Schemes As a result of a review of then current and forecast inflation rates the and corporate governance practice and the application of the New acquire shares, exercisable at the end of a three year performance Executive Share Option Scheme Committee decided that an increase in basic salary of 2.5% should Code in respect of the accounting period which commenced on period subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and The Company operated an Executive Share Option Scheme be awarded to the Executive Directors at the time of such review 1 April 2011. continued employment.
50% of the award is subject to growth in the ESOS up to June 2004 for Executive Directors and other senior on 1 April 2011.
This is the same increase as was awarded to Companys earnings per share EPS and the remaining 50% of the management.
In common with other large companies the Company employees generally across the Group.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to consider matters award is subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR.
has not granted any further awards to Executive Directors or senior related to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management under the ESOS after 2004.
Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP management below Board level.
Details of the vesting targets for both parts of the 2008 and 2009 The Group operates a performance-related bonus plan for its awards were set out in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme senior management under which payment of bonuses is linked to The Committee met eight times during the year and all members The Company operated a SAYE Scheme for eligible employees achievement of budgeted annual Group operating profit targets and attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors except for The part of the 2010 award which is subject to EPS growth will vest during the year under review under which options may be granted other objectives including safety and customer service targets and Audrey Baxter and Colin Hood who were each absent from one of in full if EPS at the end of the performance period is not less than on an annual basis at a discount of up to 20% of market value.
Where an Executive Director is also directly these meetings.
The Committee was also advised on the structuring 51.7p.
If EPS is not less than 47.7p then 25% of that part of the As with the previous scheme the Executive Directors are eligible responsible for one or more operating division s, payment of of Directors remuneration packages by Towers Watson and MCG award will vest.
That part of the award will vest on a straight-line to participate in the current scheme.
a proportion of the bonus is also linked to the profitability of Consulting, part of the DLA Piper law group.
basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 47.7p those divisions.
There will be no vesting if EPS is less than 47.7p.
Buy As You Earn BAYE Scheme Remuneration policy The Company operates a Share Incentive Plan under the title Buy Each year, the Board sets challenging budget targets for the Aim In relation to that part of the 2010 award which is subject to TSR, As You Earn.
The scheme, which is open to all UK employees of Group as a whole and for each business unit within the Group.
The aim of the Committee is to design remuneration packages for it will vest if the Companys TSR over the three year performance the Group, enables employees including the Executive Directors The Committees policy had been that bonuses should be payable the Companys Executives which attract, retain and motivate the period falls within the top half of a ranking of the TSR of the to purchase partnership shares from their gross income before for Group performance against budget of between 96% and 106%, high calibre individuals necessary to maintain the Groups position companies within a comparator group.
The comparator group is income tax and National Insurance deductions.
The Company with the level of bonus payable being heavily skewed towards as a leader in the public transportation industry.
In implementing made up from a mixture of the 75 largest companies in the FTSE provides two matching shares for every three partnership shares, performance in excess of 100% of budget.
70% of any bonus its policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the 250 and the companies in the lower quartile of the FTSE 100 subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value payable was dependent upon Group financial performance and the Principles of Good Governance of the Code with regard to excluding investment trusts at the commencement of the of 20 a month.
The shares are held in trust for up to five years, in balance upon the achievement of safety, customer service and Directors remuneration.
If the Companys TSR falls within the upper which case, no income tax or National Insurance will be payable.
The maximum potential bonus which can be quartile of the comparator group that part of the award will vest in The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding awarded to Executive Directors is 100% of basic salary and 120% full.
If it falls at median, only 25% of it will vest.
If the Companys partnership shares are removed from trust within three years of basic salary in the case of the Chief Executive.
TSR falls between median and the upper quartile, straight-line from award.
There will be no vesting if the 44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report continued Cash Benefits Retention Share Award Non-Executive Directors 1 Salary bonus in kind Fees Total Total On 25 January 2011 the Company granted a conditional award over All Non-Executive Directors have a letter of appointment and their 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 214,826 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in favour of fees are determined by the Board based on surveys of fees paid to Tim OToole, Chief Executive.
The principal purpose of the award non-executive directors of comparable companies.
These letters Executive Directors was the retention of Tim OToole as Chief Executive.
The award of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys Sidney Barrie 340 111 11 462 341 will vest on 1 November 2013 three years from the date of his registered office during normal business hours and will be made Jeff Carr 436 142 1 579 547 appointment as Chief Executive provided that he has not ceased available at the Annual General Meeting.
3 Sir Moir Lockhead 364 119 20 503 643 to be employed by the Company or given notice of his resignation 2 Nicola Shaw 88 3 91 327 other than for certain good leaver reasons.
No consideration was Details of the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are set out on 3 Tim OToole 564 18 9 591 39 paid for the grant of the award which was made after consultation page 47.
Non-Executive Directors with the six largest shareholders of the Company.
Martin Gilbert 191 191 186 Following a review of fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors, Audrey Baxter 53 53 50 Retirement benefits including advice from external remuneration consultants, the Board David Begg 45 45 44 Executive Directors are members of a number of defined benefit has decided that, in order to reflect the responsibility and time Group pension schemes.
Their dependants are eligible for commitment of such Directors and fee levels in other listed Colin Hood 45 45 39 dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the companies of similar size and complexity, the fees payable to the John Sievwright 53 53 50 event of death in service.
Further details are set out on page 49.
Non-Executive Directors should be increased with effect from Martyn Williams 34 34 33 1 April 2011 as follows: the base annual fee should be increased Total 1,792 372 53 430 2,647 2,299 Shareholding guidelines to 50,000 with the Group Employee Directors fee being increased Following the establishment of the LTIP in 2008, shareholding to 37,500 and the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration 1 The Executive Directors received the following non-cash benefits in the year: Sidney Barrie: 10,000 car allowance and 897 medical insurance for himself and spouse: Jeff Carr: 1,121 medical insurance for himself: Sir Moir Lockhead: 16,217 company car, 3,450 private fuel and 523 medical insurance for himself and spouse: Nicola Shaw: 3,000 car allowance and 87 guidelines for Executive Directors were introduced.
These provide Committees receiving a supplemental fee of 10,000.
The Chairmans medical insurance for herself: and Tim OToole: 9,598 car allowance, 137,755 accommodation allowance and 8,500 private medical insurance for himself and spouse.
for Executive Directors to retain at least 50% of the shares, net of fee should be increased to 225,000.
2 Nicola Shaw, formerly Director Bus, UK, Ireland and Germany, resigned on 8 June 2010.
In terms of an agreement with her she was entitled to receive her then annual salary and other benefits payable over a period of six months ended on 31 December 2010 in total 372,420 plus a compensation payment of 64,819.
She also received fees of 4,000 per month in terms of a tax, vesting under an LTIP award, or any other vesting of an award consultancy agreement with the Group for the six month period ended 31 December 2010, relating to assistance with the Competition Commission enquiry into the provision of local bus under any other executive share plan, or otherwise acquire shares in Non-Executive Directors, other than the Group Employee Director, services in the UK.
3 Sir Moir Lockhead resigned as a Director on 1 November 2010.
Tim OToole was appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer on 14 June 2010 and as Chief Executive on 1 November 2010. the Company over a period of five years until a shareholding with a cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes and market value calculated by reference to purchase price equal to are not eligible to join a Company pension scheme.
Each of the 100% of basic salary is achieved.
The Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Directors other than Audrey Baxter and Colin Hood Total shareholder return Audited information reserves the right to relax or waive the application of such guidelines who receive all of their fees in the form of shares in the Company The graph below shows, for the last five financial years of the Market price of FirstGroup plc shares in certain circumstances, including the impending retirement of any has elected to receive 40% of his fees in the form of shares in the Company, the total shareholder return on a holding of shares in the The market price of FirstGroup plc shares at 31 March 2011 was Executive Director.
Company in order to ensure that their interests are more closely Company as against that of a hypothetical holding of shares made 326.30p and the range during the year was 323p to 412.6p.
aligned to those of the Companys shareholders.
The shares are up of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference Service contracts purchased on a monthly basis in the market.
The appointment of to which the FTSE 100 Index, the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE Directors remuneration It is the Companys policy to restrict notice periods for Executive each of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early termination AllShare Travel and Leisure Index are calculated.
Details of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 March Directors to a maximum of 12 months.
In line with this policy, all of without compensation if he she is not re-appointed at a meeting 2011 are set out above and on the following pages.
the Executive Directors have service contracts with an undefined of shareholders where he she is up for re-election.
This graph is included to meet the relevant legislative requirements term but which provide for a notice period of 12 months.
and is not directly relevant to the performance criteria used for Emoluments and compensation the Companys ESOS or the LTIP.
Nonetheless, the indices used The total salaries, fees and benefits paid to, or received by, those The contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the discretion of were selected as the Company believes that they are the most persons who served as a Director of the Company at any time the Company, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination appropriate and representative indices against which to measure during the year for the period of such directorship are shown in the of the contract.
Such payments are limited to basic salary plus the Companys performance for this purpose.
These include any and all payments for services as a certain benefits but would not include entitlement to bonus or share Director of the Company, its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection awards.
There are no contractual provisions governing payment of with the management of the Group.
Total shareholder return compensation on early termination of the contracts.
If it becomes necessary to consider early termination of a service contract, the 200 Company will have regard to all the circumstances of the case, including mitigation, when determining any compensation to be paid.
Details of the Executive Directors contracts are set out below: 150 Director Date of service contract Sir Moir Lockhead resigned 1 November 2010 5 March 2001 100 Sidney Barrie 31 August 2005 Nicola Shaw resigned 8 June 2010 13 May 2009 50 Jeff Carr 29 June 2009 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Tim OToole 25 January 2011 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept FirstGroup plc FTSE 100 Index an outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in Total shareholder return Total shareholder return connection with Group business, the individual Director is entitled to FTSE All Share FTSE 250 Index retain any fees received.
Travel and Leisure Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Datastream 46 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report continued Directors share awards Retirement benefits The outstanding share awards under the ESOS, deferred share bonus under the EABP, LTIP and SAYE Scheme granted to each of the Details of the retirement benefits for each of the Directors are set out in the table below: serving Directors are set out in the table below.
No price was paid for any share award.
There have been no changes to the terms and conditions of any share awards granted to Directors.
Directors Transfer value contributions Increase of increase Increase during the year Accrued in accrued in accrued Transfer Transfer in transfer At beginning Lapsed At end for relevant pension at Increase pension pension and value at value at value less of year or Granted Exercised waived of year defined benefit 31 March in accrued net of cash net of 31 March 31 March Directors 1 6 date of during during during or date of scheme 2011 pension inflation inflation 2010 2011 contributions 1 2 appointment the year the year the year retirement Exercise Date from Director number of number of number of number of number of price which Expiry Sidney Barrie 17,067 17,510 3,090 2,362 52,577 329,333 389,818 43,418 Director Scheme shares shares shares shares shares pence exercisable date 3 Jeff Carr 16,686 4,635 3,090 2,897 39,743 19,646 63,581 27,249 Sidney Barrie Deferred share bonus: 2006 18,657 18,657 nil 1.4.
20 1 The above Directors, with the exception of Sir Moir Lockhead, participated in salary sacrifice arrangements during the year.
The defined benefit contributions in the table above and the Group 4 SIPP Director contributions referred to below have been paid via salary sacrifice by the Directors with an equivalent contribution being paid directly to the pension schemes by the Company.
12 2 Sir Moir Lockhead resigned as a Director on 1 November 2010 but remained as an employee of the Group until his retirement on 31 March 2011.
13 3 Nicola Shaw resigned as a Director on 8 June 2010.
4 Sir Moir Lockhead also has a cash benefit of 978,680 in the Local Government Pension Scheme.
Increase in cash net of inflation is 5,544.
20 6 The inflation assumption is 4.34% using the annual change in CPI as at February 2011.
4 7 Transfer values assume immediate retirement at both dates as Sir Moir Lockhead can retire immediately without reduction.
14 The Group does not have one pension scheme but instead operates a number of different schemes.
11 Executive Directors participate are defined benefit schemes and are not limited in membership to Executive Directors.
12 2003 166,958 166,958 287 18.11.06 18.11.13 Sidney Barrie, Jeff Carr, Nicola Shaw and Tim OToole participated in a final salary arrangement restricted through a scheme earnings 2004 193,277 193,277 275.08 10.6.
14 cap based on the previous HMRC definition.
To reflect the need to provide a competitive pensions package, a Group SIPP arrangement 3 Deferred share bonus: 2004 34,062 34,062 nil 1.4.
14 operates, in which these individuals are allowed to participate.
Each individual contributes a minimum of 5% of their basic salary in excess of the scheme earnings cap and the Company contributes 20% on the same basis.
This amounted to a Company contribution during the 2005 36,787 36,787 nil 1.4.
15 financial year of 43,280 in respect of Sidney Barrie, 62,405 in respect of Jeff Carr, 8,672 in respect of Nicola Shaw and 88,543 in 2006 61,567 61,567 nil 1.4.
18 This report was approved by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, on 5 May 2011 and signed 2009 14,628 14,628 nil 1.4.
14 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Nicola Shaw Deferred share bonus: 2006 22,803 22,803 nil 1.4.
14 1 Tim OToole was appointed as Group Chief Operating Officer on 14 June 2010 and as Chief Executive on 1 November 2010.
2 Nicola Shaw resigned as a Director on 8 June 2010.
Sir Moir Lockhead resigned as a Director on 1 November 2010.
3 The figures shown represent the number of nil-cost options, or conditional share awards in respect of Tim OToole, which were granted under the deferred share element of the EABP in respect of the relevant financial year.
The cash values of the 2010 11 awards are: Sidney Barrie: 37,000: Jeff Carr: 47,000: Sir Moir Lockhead: 40,000: and Tim OToole: 245,000.
These awards will take the form of nil-cost options, or in the case of Tim OToole in the form of a conditional award, over shares.
They will in the case of Sidney Barrie, Jeff Carr and Tim OToole subject to satisfaction of the requirements of the plan vest on 1 April 2014.
They will, in the case of Sir Moir Lockhead, vest on the date of grant.
The number of shares awarded will depend on the market price of shares at the close of business on 11May 2011.
4 The figures shown represent the number of nil-cost options which were granted under the LTIP in respect of the relevant financial year.
48 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Report of the Directors Directors report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report and Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Incentive Plan BAYE, On 21 April 2011, Martin Gilbert acquired 2,011 shares, David Begg The Group also has a regular dialogue with employees and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011. employees buy shares and receive free matching shares in the acquired 471 shares, Colin Hood acquired 596 shares, John representatives from trades unions.
Most operating companies have Company.
In order to preserve certain tax benefits these shares are Sievwright acquired 555 shares, Martyn Williams acquired 205 either an elected Company Council or, more typically, an Employee Principal activity held in a trust by Yorkshire Building Society for employees.
Whilst shares and Audrey Baxter acquired 811 shares under the standing Director on its board.
This principle extends to the plc Board where The principal activity of the Group is the provision of passenger these shares are held in trust, the voting rights attached to them are arrangements whereby they have elected to receive 40% except for one of the Employee Directors is elected by his or her peers to transport services.
exercised by the trustee but only at the direction of the employees.
Audrey Baxter and Colin Hood who have elected to receive 100% represent employees across the Group.
The trustee does not vote on the shares if no direction is given to it.
of their monthly fees in the form of shares in the Company.
On the Review of the business same date Tim OToole acquired 147 shares under the standing Each division has its own information and consultation arrangements Reviews of the business and principal events and likely future No person has any special rights of control over the Companys arrangement whereby he has elected to receive the monthly value and levels of employee involvement in the business differ.
However, developments are given in the Chairmans statement, Chief share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
of the car allowance payable to him under his service contract with in the UK, the Group has worked with trades unions to set up a Executives operating review and in the Finance Directors review the Company in the form of shares in the Company.
number of joint schemes, including workplace learning, credit set out on pages 2 to 33.
Our review of the principal risks and Authority for the company to purchase its own shares unions, new national policies on assaults, drugs and alcohol, the uncertainties of the business is set out on pages 40 to 42.
At the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2010 authority No Director is materially interested in any significant contract or restructuring of Group pension schemes and a joint committee to was granted for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary agreement with the Group, other than their service contracts.
During the year, no ordinary shares were purchased.
The results for the year are set out in the consolidated income Under the existing authority, the Company may purchase up to Significant interests The Group is committed to wide employee share ownership.
The Directors recommend payment of a 47,800,000 ordinary shares.
This authority remains in place until At 11 May 2011, the Company had been notified of the following the year, employees continued to have the opportunity to participate final dividend of 72.3m 15.0p per share which, with the interim the 2011 Annual General Meeting, when it is intended to seek a interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting in the Groups Save As You Earn and Buy As You Earn schemes, dividend of 34.2m 7.12p per share paid on 2 February 2011, further renewal.
rights in the Company: details of which are set out in note 35 to the financial statements.
gives a total dividend of 106.5m 22.12p per share for the Institution Ordinary 5p shares % year.
The proposed final dividend, if approved, will be paid on Directors The Group is committed to equality of opportunity in all its Capital Research Management Company 31,300,000 6.50 19 August 2011 to shareholders on the register at the close of The Directors of the Company who served during the year were employment practices, policies and procedures.
To this end, within business on 15 July 2011.
Martin Gilbert, Sir Moir Lockhead resigned 1 November 2010, BlackRock, Inc. 24,812,192 5.15 the framework of the law, we are committed wherever practicable Tim OToole, Sidney Barrie, Jeff Carr, Audrey Baxter, David Begg, to achieving and maintaining a workforce which broadly reflects the AXA S. A.
24,649,680 5.12 Share capital Nicola Shaw resigned 8 June 2010, John Sievwright, Colin Hood local catchment area within which we operate.
We aim to ensure Lloyds Banking Group plc 23,464,316 4.87 Details of issued share capital, together with details of the and Martyn Williams.
Biographical details of all the serving Directors that no employee or potential employee will receive less favourable Standard Life Investments Limited 23,409,623 4.86 movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are set out on pages 34 and 35. treatment due to their race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,423,964 4.45 are set out in note 28 to the financial statements.
The Company has sex, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, marital status, trade Artemis Investment Management Limited 20,586,417 4.27 one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the union membership, age or disability.
Legal & General Group Plc 19,264,804 4.00 As at 11 May 2011, there were 482,067,170 ordinary shares of 5p Company is governed by its articles of association, the Code the each in issue including 268,453 ordinary shares held in treasury.
New Code in respect of the accounting period which commenced Corporate social responsibility Employees on 1 April 2011, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The The system of internal controls described on pages 39 to 43 covers The Group is committed to employee involvement and uses a Shareholders who are present at a general meeting and duly Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all significant risks associated with social, environmental and health variety of methods to inform, consult and involve its employees in appointed proxies present at a general meeting can vote on a show powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by and safety issues.
The Group publishes a separate Corporate Social the business.
These include subsidiary company newsletters and of hands.
They will have one vote each.
On a poll, every shareholder the shareholders of the Company by voting in general meeting.
Responsibility Report covering these matters, which is available circulars and also First Edition, a Group-wide newsletter, which is present in person or by proxy will have one vote for every share on our website at www.
sent to all employees across the Group on a biannual basis.
The Notice of the 2011 Annual General Meeting Senior executives of FirstGroup America and its operating units have managers within each division meet regularly to discuss current accompanying this document specifies the deadlines for exercising been provided with executive employment agreements that provide, Charitable and political contributions issues and employees are encouraged to discuss any issues with voting rights.
All proxy votes are counted and the number for, against in part, some compensation for any termination other than a The Group made various donations to UK charities totalling management at any time.
Each division also operates a confidential and withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the termination for cause.
Severance payments range from one to two approximately 260,000 during the year 2010: 64,000. hotline which staff can use to report health and safety, employmentmeeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
This is customary practice in the US market.
No payments were made for political purposes.
related and other issues concerning them.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the There are no other agreements between the Company and its transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office Directors interests Ordinary 5p shares of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy At beginning of year or are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
subsequent appointment At end of year shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or NonNonBeneficial beneficial Beneficial beneficial on voting rights.
Details of the fees and remuneration of the Directors and their service contracts or terms of appointment are set out in the Sidney Barrie 20,678 20,678 Details of employee share schemes are set out on page 45 and in Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49.
Audrey Baxter 21,246 29,557 note 35 to the financial statements.
David Begg 16,998 21,762 Directors interests Jeff Carr 15,000 15,000 Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, as trustee of The Directors who held office at the end of the year had the following Martin Gilbert 138,828 159,161 FirstGroup plc Employee Benefit Trust, holds shares in the Company interests in the ordinary shares of the Company see table opposite.
Colin Hood 5,891 12,948 in trust in order to satisfy awards made to participants in the John Sievwright 40,249 45,861 Companys LTIP, ESOS and EABP and abstain from voting.
Details of the Directors share awards are set out in the Directors Tim OToole 4,060 6,226 Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49.
Martyn Williams 6,104 8,180 Between 1 April 2011 and 11 May 2011, the following changes occurred to Directors interests: 50 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Report of the Directors
