Allied Gold Mining PLC Directors report December 31, 2011 OPERATIONAL REVIEW Principal activities Allied Gold is a gold producer, developer and exploration Company.
Allied Golds major assets are its 100% owned Simberi Gold Project the Simberi Project, which is located on Simberi Island, the northernmost island of the Tabar Islands Group, in the New Ireland Province of eastern Papua New Guinea PNG and its 100% interest in the Gold Ridge Gold Project Gold Ridge which is located on Guadalcanal Island in the Solomon Islands.
Allied Gold seeks to generate value for its shareholders by identifying and acquiring underdeveloped assets with embedded long term value.
The Group then leverages off the proven track record of its management team in successfully bringing into production projects in challenging operating environments.
The central pillars of Allieds approach are the adoption of a self sustaining approach to critical activities such as logistics and supply chain management: the adoption of innovative solutions and a focus on outcomes.
Allied Golds strategic priorities are: Optimise the existing asset base to increase production from the Groups existing projects whilst reducing cash costs.
The core projects being undertaken in this regard are the expansion of the Simberi Project Oxide processing plant to a capacity of 3.5 million tonnes per annum to increase annual production from the Simberi Project to approximately 100,000 ounces per annum and the conversion of the Simberi Project from diesel generated power to heavy fuel oil power generation which is expected to deliver cost savings of approximately $30 per ounce.
Expand the Groups existing resources through development of the Groups existing asset base.
The Group is currently undertaking a bankable feasibility study to assess the economic viability of developing the existing one million ounces of Simberi Sulphide reserves.
Sector consolidation and Allied Golds record in delivering projects provides opportunities within the sector that could complement Allied Golds strong organic growth profile.
Results Allied Gold Mining PLC produced 108,338 ounces of gold in the year to December 2011, which was an increase of 55% compared with the prior year.
The increase was primarily due to the inclusion of production from the Gold Ridge project, which was acquired in March 2010, and resumed operations in March 2011 following an extensive refurbishment programme.
Gold Ridge contributed 51,054 ounces in the year to December 2011, and Simberi produced 57,284 ounces.
While significantly higher than the prior year, production in 2011 was impacted by mechanical issues and wet weather at Simberi and restricted access to high grade ore at Gold Ridge.
Higher Group production, together with a 33% rise in the average realised gold price to $1,620 per ounce, led to an 81% increase in revenue to $146.4 million for the year.
Higher output, together with rising input costs, saw the cost of sales increase 87% to $130.1 million for the year, leaving gross profit at $16.3 million, an increase of 43% compared with the prior corresponding period.
After corporate expenses, increased foreign exchange losses and reduced gains on financial transactions, the profit before tax fell from $5.8 million in 2010, to a loss of $6.0 million in 2011.
Cashflows from operations in the year totalled $22.0 million, compared with a cash outflow from operations of $6.0 million in the prior year.
