Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 20 Operating Review EU Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 21 Our position in EU markets provides us with opportunities to further develop our total tobacco portfolio and grow our profits.
3 Restated due to a change of source or basis.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 22 Operating Review continued EU Markets Overview UK Our position in EU markets provides us with UK Overview: We estimate that UK stick equivalent opportunities to further develop our total tobacco volumes were down 2 per cent to 55.5 billion 2010: portfolio and grow our profits.
The cigarette market was down by 5 per cent, impacted by a number of significant tax The key consumer trend across the EU is one of value increases in the last 18 months including the increase as consumers have continued to economise and in VAT to 20 per cent in January this year.
The fine cut look for value brands and products.
With the breadth tobacco market remained buoyant, up by 9 per cent.
and versatility of our portfolio, we are capitalising on this trend.
UK Performance: In the UK, results were impacted by a change in trade buying patterns as a result of Our cigarette value brands have grown market share the timing of a price increase.
In cigarette, we have in the majority of markets in the EU and we have again grown our share of the economy sector to continued to build on the success of JPS across 46 per cent with another positive performance from the region with volumes up by 8 per cent.
our value brands JPS Silver and Windsor Blue.
We have also grown our fine cut tobacco business, Our overall cigarette share was 45.1 per cent.
particularly our cigarette branded fine cut tobacco We are strengthening our portfolio with the national products, such as Route 66 which grew volumes by roll out of GlideTec packs for Lambert and Butler.
In fine cut tobacco, we launched JPS roll your own We have continued to build on the momentum in and make your own tobaccos in April, which had our snus business in Scandinavia, increasing our captured 3.5 per cent of the market by September.
volumes by 30 per cent and we have grown mass Gold Leaf and Golden Virginia Yellow have performed market cigar volumes by 8 per cent with notable well although our overall fine cut tobacco market share success in Spain.
was 51.0 per cent reflecting premium sector decline.
1 EU Markets Results Germany We delivered a good financial performance in Germany Germany Overview: In Germany, the cigarette and in our Rest of EU region.
In Spain, revenues and market was up by 1 per cent and fine cut tobacco profits were down due to the difficult market and, in volumes were up 6 per cent, with make your own the UK, a change in trade buying patterns and the tobacco growth particularly strong.
We estimate overall cigarette market decline impacted results.
an overall market of 122.3 billion stick equivalents 2010: 119.4 billion.
UK net revenue was down by 3 per cent to 869 million and adjusted operating profit declined Germany Performance: Our focus on the JPS by 6 per cent to 577 million.
brand franchise is continuing tosupport our very good performance inGermany.
In Germany, our strong results reflect the positive performance of our value brands and our price In cigarettes, JPS grew to around 10 per cent of the increase in May, with net revenues up by 4 per cent market.
Both Gauloises Blondes and Davidoff were to 879 million and adjusted operating profit up by stable, a good result given the consumer value trend 7 per cent to 461 million.
in the market, although West was down.
Our cigarette market share was 26.6 per cent.
In fine cut tobacco The cigarette market was down significantly in Spain we are market leaders and have delivered excellent and market profitability was impacted by competitor results with Route 66.
Our fine cut tobacco market activity during the summer.
As a result net revenues share was 20.3 per cent.
declined by 16 per cent to 497 million with adjusted operating profits down by 25 per cent to 200 million.
In our Rest of EU region, we grew net revenues by 5 per cent to 1,592 million, with profits benefiting from price increases in the majority of markets in the region, up by 3 per cent to 658 million.
1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 23 Spain Rest of EU Spain Overview: Exceptional circumstances have Rest of EU Overview: We estimate that the overall made Spain a difficult market this year.
The ban on regional volumes were down by 2 per cent to smoking in public places that came into effect in January 404.8 billion stick equivalents with the cigarette market and excise duty increases have impacted consumers down 3 per cent and fine cut tobacco up 8 per cent.
who were already feeling particularly cost conscious Rest of EU Performance: Our total tobacco as a result of the tough economic conditions in Spain.
approach is delivering good results in the Rest of EU.
In addition, profitability has been impacted by We grew our cigarette market shares in a number competitor activity such that we reduced our prices of countries including in Austria, Czech Republic, to protect our market leadership position and the Slovakia and Portugal.
In France, News has performed long-term sustainability of our Spanish business.
well despite a significant number of competitor brand launches although our domestic blonde market share We estimate that the overall market was down to was down to 22.6 per cent.
69.2 billion cigarette equivalents 2010: 80.0 billion with the cigarette market down by 15 per cent and In fine cut tobacco, we grew our regional volumes growth in fine cut tobacco of 5 per cent.
by 5 per cent and maintained our leading position in many markets in the region.
We made market share Spain Performance: Our focus has remained on gains in a number of our central European markets providing consumers with the value they are looking with Paramount and Route 66. forand we have introduced a number of brand and product extensions.
We have grown volumes within the The consumer trend to smaller mass market cigars consumer growth segments of queen size cigarettes, has continued and in France we have grown Nias cigarette branded fine cut tobaccos and mini cigars.
pocket cigars to 6.8 per cent 2010: 5.7 per cent of the total cigar market.
In cigarette, our successful value line extensions Fortuna Redline, and soft packs of JPS Red andDucados In Scandinavia, we have increased volumes of our Rubio have supported the overall performance of their snus brands Knox and Skruf by 30 per cent and are respective brands.
In addition, Nobel Style is now the well placed to drive continued growth in this popular leading queen size brand in the market.
overall domestic blonde share was 28.1 per cent, impacted by the competitive market.
In fine cut tobacco, we are market leaders and have grown our share significantly up to 36.8 per cent.
This is due to the success of Ducados Rubio which, since launch in June 2010, has grown to 16.3 per cent.
In mini cigars, we grew Coburn significantly, up at 19.3 per cent of the total cigar segment 2010: 11.7 per cent.
Spain in 2011 Exceptional circumstances have made Spain a Competitor pricing activity in the second half of the difficult market this year.
year significantly impacted the overall profitability of the Spanish market, as well as our revenues and profits.
The ban on smoking in public places that came into effect in January and excise duty increases In May and June market cigarette prices reduced have impacted consumers who were already feeling as a result of various brands being repositioned.
particularly cost conscious as a result of the tough We increased our prices in July and September.
All our products are now priced at, or above, the levels at the start of the year.
Weve been alert to evolving consumer dynamics through our total tobacco approach.
Weve focused We will continue to drive growth across our on providing consumers with the value brands and portfolio and will always act to protect our market products they are looking for, enabling us to grow position and the long-term sustainability of our volumes within these growth segments.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 24 Operating Review continued Non-EU Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 25 We are delivering strong emerging market performances and see many opportunities to grow our business in this region.
2 Restated due to a change of source or basis.
Total 3,076 13 3,089 5.2 2,936 Adjusted Operating Profit Change at Foreign Constant constant exchange currency currency million 2011 2011 2011 % 2010 Americas 234 8 242 -0.8 244 Rest of the World 794 5 789 13.9 693 Total 1,028 3 1,031 10.0 937 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 26 Operating Review continued We have grown volumes of Davidoff in the Middle Non-EU Markets Overview East, notably in Saudi Arabia, and increased our market share in the United Arab Emirates.
Our non-EU markets comprise the emerging markets of Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and Eastern Europe Asia and the more developed markets of the USA In Eastern Europe, we have focused on our global and Australasia.
This is a developing region for us international strategic brands and innovative formats.
and we see many opportunities to grow our business.
This approach is delivering excellent results with Davidoff and West growing strongly in the growing As in all our markets, consumer insight enables us superslims and kingsize superslims segments.
to put the right portfolio in place to further grow sales.
Although cigarette volumes in Russia and Ukraine In a number of markets consumers are trading up have declined, the rate of decline has continued to premium brands and products.
More consumers are trading up, which on achieving further success with our international combined with price increases has improved our strategic cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises overall sales mix.
Demand for our luxury Cuban cigars continues to grow in key emerging markets.
In Russia, Style and Maxim grew share: our overall share was 8.8 per cent impacted by Balkan Star In the USA and in Australasia, consumers are declines, as we continue to prioritise the profitability economising and the key trend is for value brands of the brand.
In Ukraine, we have further extended our market share to 22.2 per cent with Davidoff and Style and we have 1 Non-EU Markets Results grown our share of innovative formats both in Ukraine We delivered strong emerging market performances and in other Eastern European markets including in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East and in Azerbaijan.
In our Rest of the World region we Asia-Pacific grew net revenues by 6 per cent to 2,345 million We have delivered an excellent performance and adjusted operating profits by 14 per cent to across the Asia-Pacific region and grew our profits 794 million.
We have improved our sales mix with significantly, up by 27 per cent.
profits up by 21 per cent in Eastern Europe, 8 per cent in Africa and the Middle East and 27 per cent in In Taiwan, we grew Davidoff and West and our overall Asia-Pacific.
market share was up to 11.3 per cent.
In Australia and New Zealand our success with JPS continued We grew our Americas net revenue by 4 per cent to in both markets, with our cigarette market shares 731 million.
We increased prices across our USA up to 19.1 per cent and 19.9 per cent respectively.
portfolio although our adjusted operating profit was down by 1 per cent overall to 234 million, impacted Elsewhere we grew cigarette market shares in by an unfavourable shift in sales mix and significant Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos and continued to competitor discounting particularly in the second half build sales of Davidoff in South Korea with our of the year.
Habanos Our luxury Habanos cigar portfolio has again delivered Rest of the World Performance another good performance and we grew our volumes Africa and Middle East by 4 per cent in non-EU markets.
We have continued In Africa and the Middle East, we grew volumes and to add to the momentum of our portfolio with new our profits were up by 8 per cent.
Fine performed well offerings including limited editions of our core brands in Africa with good volume growth in Burkina Faso and Cohiba and Montecristo and delivered excellent Cte dlvoire.
growth in Russia, Brazil and China.
We delivered excellent volume gains with Gauloises Blondes particularly in Algeria and also in Morocco, where the brand supported our overall share at 83.1 per cent.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 27 USA Performance Americas In cigarettes we grew our market share of Fortuna and Rave, although USA Gold and Sonoma were under USA Overview pressure with our overall cigarette market share stable We estimate the overall cigarette market was down at 3.9 per cent.
1 per cent to 295.6 billion cigarettes.
Across our premium handmade cigar business we The cigarette market remains extremely competitive delivered good growth, while in mass market cigars and we have focused on strengthening our business we have successfully launched new brand variants by integrating our cigarette and mass market cigar in the value segment.
In natural wrapper cigars, our sales forces.
In cigars the trend toward smaller sized largest mass market cigar category, we delivered a mass market cigars and cigarillos continued.
EU and Non-EU Market Outlook We will continue to focus on driving growth Consumer relevant innovation is key to driving through our total tobacco portfolio across our growth and we will further develop our pipeline of international footprint.
scalable innovations based on consumer insights.
GlideTec is an excellent example of this: national Whilst there will undoubtedly be challenges in some rollout with Lambert & Butler in the UK is ongoing markets, we are confident of being able to build on and we are finalising plans to scale this exciting our growth momentum in EU and Non-EU markets.
initiative with other brands across other markets.
We have been alert to changing consumer dynamics, We are progressing a number of other innovations enabling us to capitalise on both value seeking to add to our sales potential.
consumer trends in the EU, as well as the growing Delivering excellence in customer engagement is demand for our global brands and products in critical to the success of our portfolio initiatives, non-EU emerging markets.
This effective portfolio and we are developing even stronger connections management approach will enable us to build further with our retail partners to maximise the advocacy sales as we continue to capitalise on meeting the and availability of our brands and products.
demands of more consumers in more markets on more consumption occasions.
Pricing will remain a key component of revenue growth going forward.
In the EU we recently In the EU this requires a focus on key cigarette and increased our prices in a number of our major fine cut tobacco brands such as JPS and Route 66. markets, which will strengthen our financial In the emerging markets outside the EU we will performance.
There are also significant pricing continue to drive growth through our global strategic opportunities outside the EU which will further cigarette brands Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes and improve our results.
West, whilst building on the sales success of our luxury cigars.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 28 Operating Review continued Logistics Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials 29 Our logistics business is one of the largest of its kind in Europe, making around 40 million deliveries per year.
1 Our Performance business delivered strong results as a result of cost savings We delivered a robust performance against a backdrop of and integration with other business lines.
In our pharma challenging economic conditions, which we have managed division, we have continued to grow our market share and we through our diligent focus on costs.
also increased our market share in our wholesale business.
Distribution fees were broadly stable at 932 million 2010: Outlook 936 million and we grew our adjusted operating profit by Our strategy is to further consolidate our leading positions 4 per cent to 183 million 2010: 176 million as a result of and focus on our core profitable activities while widening our increased efficiencies.
logistics services and increasing the channels and countries that we access.
In tobacco logistics, our business has been resilient.
In Spain, We will seek to identify further opportunities to grow our the year has been difficult due to cigarette volume decreases and cigarette companies repositioning prices downwards logistics business while maintaining our cost discipline.
We have been able to partially offset this impact with increases in our distribution fees, Logistics increased volumes of cigars and fine cut tobacco, and cost saving initiatives.
In France and Italy tobacco market volumes Change at were broadly stable, with our results benefiting from tobacco Foreign Constant constant price increases and efficiency improvements.
exchange currency currency million 2011 2011 2011 % 2010 In other logistics, we have improved our performance Distribution fees 932 1 933 -0.3 936 across all our businesses.
This is due to our continued focus Adjusted on maintaining our profitability while continuing to seek operating profit 183 183 4.0 176 opportunities to further grow our operations.
Our transport Overview can assure full traceability throughout the entire logistics value Our logistics business is one of the largest in Europe, making chain, from pick-up and transport of the product at customers around 40 million deliveries per year in Spain, France, Italy, factories to post-sale service.
We are market leaders in the distribution of convenience We offer services across the whole logistics value chain products to petrol stations in Spain, Portugal and France.
to our customers, including order reception, storage and Convenience products are also distributed to other points of sale in these countries and in Italy, including to tobacconists, stock management, order preparation, transport and bakeries and grocerystores.
distribution, invoicing and collection and customer services.
Our business has two key aspects tobacco logistics and We have an e-transaction business with our own technological non-tobacco logistics.
platform for e-recharge, installed in the main network of points of sale including in tobacconists, kiosks and convenience shops Tobacco Logistics in Spain, Portugal and France.
In this area, different products Tobacco logistics delivers products for domestic and are offered including telephone cards and transport tickets.
international tobacco companies, including Imperial Tobacco, to tobacconists and other sales outlets in Spain, France, Italy, We are present in the transportation segment, through Portugal and Poland.
The business is run on an operationally courier and industrial parcel activities in Spain and Portugal.
neutral basis, providing individual customer solutions.
Our long distance transport network across Europe allows us to provide our customers with integrated solutions for their Non-Tobacco Logistics logistics needs covering all services, from their factories to the Non-Tobacco logistics provides specialised services point of sale.
In addition, our logistics business is the leading for customers in a number of different sectors in Spain, logistics provider in Spain and Portugal in a number of sectors, Portugal, France andItaly which includes convenience, including pharmaceutical and publishing.
telecommunications, transportation, pharmaceutical, publishing, and lottery.
Our integrated logistics services 1 Percentage increases and decreases in our adjusted results are on a constant currency basis unless stated otherwise.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2011
