16 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew operational review Future workload We deliver our operational services through three divisions: Support Our future workload comprises forward contracts for which we are in bilateral Services, Construction and Equipment orders and pipeline.
Forward orders negotiations and on which final terms are Services.
We also have a Group Services are those for which we have secured being agreed.
We include our share of function, which consists of the Board contracts in place, and pipeline covers work won by our international associates.
and a range of central services, and our Developments division, which is responsible for managing our investment 31 December 31 December activities and for leading our strategic 2011 2010 developments.
Forward orders 4.5 billion 4.3 billion We allocate all central costs to Group Pipeline 1.1 billion 1.0 billion Services, including those related to our financing and central bidding Future workload 5.6 billion 5.3 billion activities, and show the performance Coverage of next years revenue 78% 73% of our investments separately as the analyst consensus Investments segment.
Group Services costs in 2011 were 20.4 million 2010: 20.0 million.
support servIces support services provides a broad Our support service activities in the Middle East have previously been range of outsourced services to reported within our Construction segment.
In view of the increasing scale the public and private sectors, of these operations we have moved them into our Support Services results the predominantly in the uK but also 2010 figures have been adjusted to the same basis see note 3 to the financial increasingly in the Middle east, the statements.
majority of which we integrate and Operational efficiencies in Support Services delivered a further significant deliver ourselves.
improvement in contribution to total Operating Profit, despite flat revenue.
as usual in this business the profit was somewhat second-half weighted, although we anticipate that there will be less difference between the first and second-half margins which were 3.1 per cent and 4.1 per cent respectively once the gains from our margin-improvement programme are fully achieved.
Bruce MelIzAn ManaGInG DIrECtOr, SuPPOrt SErvICES overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew 17 there were three main contributors to our the Work Programme is another example Internationally, our success was led by margin-improvement programme: first, of government seeking to gain the industrial services work in Qatar.
Dolphin the integration of our Security operation benefits of competition and payment Energy awarded us a five-year contract into our Commercial business, which has by results, and one in which we were for maintenance services at its ras Laffan had an important impact on the indirect successful in 2011. the DWP took the plant and for supplying management, cost base: second, we have continued decision to replace all existing welfaremanpower and equipment both there and to make significant improvements to to-work programmes with a regionallyat its offshore platforms and pipelines.
procurement: and third, we have further based series of contracts in which the We added infrastructure maintenance developed systems and procedures to successful bidders would be responsible services to our existing five-year contract increase productivity across our major for delivering vocational training, skills with Qatar Shell GtL and, since the year contracts.
development and employment-focused end, have won a place on its three-year support to the long-term unemployed.
Plant Change Construction Services the uK market for outsourced services is We were successful, in our joint venture framework agreement with a two-year not yet exhibiting the full growth potential with rehab Group, an Irish charity, in extension option.
that was expected to result from the winning both the Wales and south-west governments austerity programme and the award of these and other contracts England contracts, which last for five from continued private sector efficiency means that the divisions future workload years and are worth approximately drives.
While there is still a reasonable grew from 4.0 billion to 4.2 billion 130 million in aggregate.
flow of opportunities, we have not yet during the course of the year, and our seen the anticipated shift in thinking, Other significant uK contract wins confidence is further underpinned particularly among local authorities, that include: contracts with the Defence by additional identified opportunities will lead to a more structural approach to Infrastructure Organisation DIO of around 7 billion.
We are further outsourcing as a way to maintain services supporting the military bases in Cyprus, developing our activities in the Middle while addressing costs.
Meanwhile clients the Falkland Islands, ascension Island East, where the economic progress of seek to restrain discretionary spend, and Gibraltar, worth 300 million over five the various economies is increasingly resulting in some volume pressure.
years with possible two-year extensions: generating requirements for outsourced a 108 million, two-year extension to services.
Qatars compound GDP growth However, we believe that the rise in our South East regional Prime contract, rate is forecast to be 5.2 per cent per demand for services from a growing and also with the DIO: a three-year extension annum to 2015, with the uaE at 3.8 per ageing population will accelerate the to our total Facilities Management cent.
We are also considering expanding long-term trend towards public services contract with the London Borough into other regions where we can combine outsourcing, and we continue to see of Croydon, worth 30 million: and a the expertise gained from our outsourcing good potential in this market given the three-year contract to clean William Hills experience with our knowledge of the limited number of service providers with retail estate.
local markets gained through our other our ability to deliver full-scope, integrated operational divisions.
Opportunities such as the MoJs custodial services framework show that there is an appetite for innovation in the public sector and we results summary 2011 2010 Change are actively pursuing such new business revenue streams.
Equally, in the private sector - uK 1,007.3m 1,024.8m -1.7% we continue to see growing evidence of clients seeing the benefit of outsourcing, - International share of associates 25.9m 23.7m 9.3% albeit the operating models through Contribution to total Operating Profit 40.0m 28.5m 40.4% which opportunities arise are more varied.
- uK 36.4m 25.1m 45.0% - International share of associates 3.6m 3.4m 5.9% Operating margin uK 3.6% 2.4% 1.2%pts 1 Operating margin International 15.1% 14.8% 0.3%pts 1 Operating margin for our associates is calculated on operating profit, comprising post-tax profit of 3.6m 2010: 3.4m plus interest and tax of 0.3m 2010: 0.1m 18 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew constructIon features and has achieved a provisional BrEEaM Excellent rating.
Leeds is the majority of the divisions uK work also the location for two groundbreaking comes from low-risk projects with longprojects won during the year: at Leeds standing clients, and over three-quarters East academy we shall use our innovative of this activity is in the public and utilities modular PodSolve construction sectors.
In the Middle East, where we technique, which saves a quarter of the have been active for over 30 years, our construction cost and can be applied to client base is more oriented towards the both new and retrofit buildings: and we private sector.
However, with the support shall be building richmond Hill Primary DAvID pAterson of our local joint-venture partners, our School to Passivhaus standards one of associate businesses are characterised ManaGInG DIrECtOr, the first such schools in the uK.
During by the same focus on developing longCOnStruCtIOn 2011 we completed the first certified, term working relationships.
carbon-neutral, Passivhaus, commercial office to be built in the uK: our own regional office in Leicester.
construction works closely with We have a long and successful association with the health sector.
clients in the uK and internationally, By the end of 2011 we had been awarded 13 contracts, worth an leading the design and construction aggregate 180 million, under the new ProCure21 framework.
Projects process in the creation of a broad awarded during the year included a 19 million research, Innovation, range of buildings and infrastructure.
Learning and Development Centre in Exeter and appointment by nottingham university Hospitals nHS trust as united Kingdom preferred Principal Supply Chain Partner until 2016.
We have been the uK business performed creditably similarly successful in the Welsh health in a very competitive environment, framework, and, in January 2012, were particularly given that the comparative named as a partner in all three regions in year of 2010 was, by some way, a record.
its successor, Designed for Life: Building the drop in contribution to uK total for Wales 2, which lasts for four years Operating Profit reflects the reduced with a possible two-year extension.
profitability of projects contracted since the downturn, when competitive pressure among our infrastructure projects we had increased.
With stable volumes, completed the challenging refurbishment the margin, at 2.5 per cent, is returning of the historic albert Bridge see case towards the levels we would expect over study, page 10 in London and reopened the longer term.
it to vehicles in December following 2011 was a year of success and nearly two years of intensive work.
Both innovation by our education team.
We our technical expertise and our project sAnDwell college handed over both the 77 million flagship management skills were vital in restoring How are we building the schools Sandwell College see inset in West the Grade II listed bridge to its former and colleges of the future, whilst Bromwich for up to 10,000 students, and glory while maintaining passage for the providing opportunities for todays the 32 million Leeds West academy, busy river traffic.
generation at the same time?
which incorporates many sustainability as part of a local regeneration project we are working in partnership with staff at Sandwell College to results summary 2011 2010 Change provide state-of-the-art teaching and revenue learning facilities that will transform education for generations to come.
731.1m - uK 754.3m -3.1% the 77 million college opened in - International share of associates 223.7m 239.2m -6.5% February 2012 and is helping to Contribution to total Operating Profit 34.6m 47.3m -26.8% regenerate one of the uKs most disadvantaged regions.
throughout - uK 18.0m 24.5m -26.5% the project, expenditure and - International share of associates 16.6m 22.8m -27.2% employment opportunities have been Operating margin uK 2.5% 3.2% -0.7% pts kept within the local area and six 1 apprentices have been employed on Operating margin International 8.4% 10.3% -1.9% pts the site.
1 Operating margin for our associates is calculated on operating profit, comprising post-tax profit of 16.6m 2010: 22.8m plus interest and tax of 2.2m 2010: 1.8m overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew 19 Looking forward, we expect that the these included two major construction Oman experienced a degree of civil uK construction market will continue to contracts at ras Laffan Industrial unrest as part of the arab Spring, which recede during 2012 and into 2013, before City, worth 70 million together, for is having an impact on the return of beginning to grow again from 2014.
It is infrastructure in the processing and gas tourism and leisure projects.
We are likely that the emphasis of government supply markets, a project with nakilat therefore increasing our focus on roads spending will shift towards infrastructure for the construction of support facilities and infrastructure projects, which we see in the shorter term and that the private at a shipyard also at ras Laffan, and as more attractive in the short-to-medium sector, particularly in south-east England, a contract for the design, construction term.
after the year end we won a will begin to recover before the public and maintenance of a new fitness centre significant contract with Daewoo to build sector.
We are well-positioned in key at the world-leading sports tourism the infrastructure for a new 2,000MW sectors and are managing our resources destination, aspire Zone, Doha.
power station in Sur for the Oman Power flexibly so that we shall be able to and Water Procurement Company.
the uaE is a regional hub for transport respond swiftly as and when the market and a range of business services.
the IMF is forecasting GDP growth returns to growth.
Significantly, our uK Despite the current surplus of of 4.0 per cent for 2012 for the Gulf Construction future workload stands residential property, demand for hotel Co-operation Council GCC countries, at 1.2 billion, slightly higher than the accommodation remains high with hotels slightly reduced on previous forecasts 1.1 billion at the end of 2010. operating at greater than 80 per cent due to the resumption of more normal International occupancy source: Ernst & Young.
levels of oil production in Qatar and Saudi the hospitality and leisure sector was arabia which had ramped up in 2011 to the majority of our international earnings an important contributor in 2011, with compensate for lower output from Libya.
are generated from our associate works carried out on the ritz Carlton and nevertheless, growth rates in the region businesses in the Middle East.
Both fit-out projects on Saadiyat Islands St are still attractive even if the immediate volumes and profits were affected by regis Hotel and the Sofitel resort Palm outlook is somewhat subdued, and Qatar increased caution on the part of our Jumeirah Hotel.
We saw a modest upturn in particular, with construction output clients as the global economy adjusts to in infrastructure work, with contracts forecast to grow at a compound rate new patterns of demand.
nevertheless such as the Dubai roads and transport of 7.9 per cent per annum up to 2016 we made good progress with our authoritys maintenance works, surfacing source: Business Monitor international, development plans.
We acquired an works on the Dubai-Fujairah Freeway remains a market with very substantial interiors business, noorco, in Qatar to and roads in umm al Quwain, one of the future prospects from which we are well augment our capabilities in interior fit-out smaller emirates.
In the retail sector we placed to benefit.
and we continue to explore other potential secured a 40 million contract to build growth avenues across the region.
the Fujairah Mall and car park for Majid al Futtaim.
We won a number of sizeable contracts in Qatar, our largest market, with a mixture of new and long-standing clients.
nelson MAnDelA chIlDrens hospItAl interserves health planners are working with sheparrd robinson international, gaPP architects and ruben reddy architects on the design and development of the new nelson mandela childrens Hospital in Johannesburg.
the 200-bed hospital will provide 60 neonatal and paediatric intensive care unit beds and will undertake heart, kidney and bone-marrow transplants.
It will provide tertiary services in oncology, cardiology, renal, orthopaedics, plus other specialities for children up to the age of 16 when it becomes operational in 2014.
Currently, there are only four dedicated childrens hospitals in africa two in Egypt, one in Kenya and one in Cape town, South africa.
20 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew equIpMent servIces the Kingdom has extensive construction and infrastructure plans from which we We have a strong position as one of the are benefiting.
an example is the Jubail leading global suppliers in our specialist Highway upgrade connecting Dammam markets.
We operate across a wide range to Jubail, the busiest road in the Eastern of geographies and sectors, with a fleet Province, where we have been involved in of equipment which we can move around the construction of some major highway the world to meet the changing demands intersections involving a number of in our global markets.
bridges for our customer Sinopec.
among the projects we undertook was equipment services which trades the ritz Carlton Hotel in Dubai Marina, for which Khansaheb, our uaE Construction as rMD Kwikform designs bespoke associate, was the client.
a particularly challenging project was the design and engineering solutions and provides supply of the supporting equipment for the construction of a 6.5km tunnel temporary structural equipment forming part of the Lusail Light rail transit system in Qatar.
Our engineers designed, for complex infrastructure and fabricated and supplied six complete sets of travelling formwork and shoring, each building projects.
14m long, which enabled the contractor to achieve four-day cycles, reducing the construction programme significantly.
With the exception of strong We were subsequently commissioned performances from australia and the to design and supply all the support Far East, we experienced weakness and formwork equipment for the in infrastructure spending in 2011, with tunnel pumping stations and ventilation pricing pressure continuing to impact shafts and are negotiating over further margins.
this was exacerbated by the associated work.
impact of the arab Spring, particularly on exports to north africa and to an extent One aspect of our growth strategy is in Bahrain and Oman.
to address these to develop exports to other parts of the pressures, we maintained a strong focus region.
In 2011 this included the Basra steven DAnce on the cost base and cash generation of Sports City Stadium project in Iraq, a ManaGInG DIrECtOr, our operations, with a number of business 65,000-seater football stadium due to be EQuIPMEnt SErvICES units being restructured during the year.
complete in time for the Gulf Cup in 2013. although there is still some uncertainty in Australasia and Far east global construction markets we believe that the first half of the year was the low We had a record year in australasia and point in our cycle and trading is showing the Far East.
this is now Equipment early signs of recovery: not only did profits Services largest region and is benefiting in the second half exceed those in the first from healthy demand in the australian half, they were also 15 per cent stronger mining and infrastructure sectors.
the than those in the second half of 2010.
Sino Iron project described in the case study on page 12 gives an idea of the scale and complexity of the work in which results summary 2011 2010 Change we have been involved.
another example revenue 154.3m 139.9m 10.3% is the victoria Desalination Plant, currently in the final stages of construction and the Contribution to total Operating Profit 13.6m 14.4m -5.6% largest of its type built to date in australia.
Margin 8.8% 10.3% -1.5% pts We have designed and supplied formwork and shoring systems to all areas of this major development over the past two years.
Prospects in mining and natural regionally: resources remain good, driven in part by Middle east and Africa the countrys access to the fast-growing Chinese and Indian markets.
there is little trading in the Middle East was affected sign yet of a resumption of growth in the both by the position of the construction australian commercial sector.
market generally and by the impact of the civil disturbances in Bahrain, Oman and Elsewhere in the region Hong Kong north africa, in particular Libya.
With the performed well as further infrastructure reduction in these contributions, Saudi contracts were let, and we anticipate that arabia, which we entered for the first time this will continue in 2012. a key project in 2009, became our most successful and was our work on the new Cruise terminal largest Middle Eastern market in 2011. overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew operAtIonAl revIew 21 building, which has a construction Catthorpe viaduct replacement at the demand.
a general election in Spain programme of three years and will berth intersection of the M6 M1 motorways.
in november 2011 saw a change the worlds largest cruise liners.
the We also introduced Megastair, a stair in government, and a return to an project drew on not only our engineering and access system that will be used on infrastructure plan is also anticipated but skills but also our logistics expertise, as the countrys two new aircraft carriers, with the benefit not likely to be felt until we designed and supplied some 3,000 and ascent Screens, a unique set 2013.
In Ireland the outlook is somewhat tonnes of formwork and shoring sourced of products which works in tandem improved but the countrys economic from around the world within a very short with our climbing formwork system to position leaves significant uncertainty lead time.
shield concrete works and protect the over the infrastructure sector.
surrounding environment from building europe Americas debris.
For the coming year, we see a Demand in the uK reflected the number of attractive prospects, including While we have made good progress pressures on the construction sector.
Crossrail, commercial building work in in integrating and reconfiguring the uS nevertheless performance was resilient London, waste-to-energy plants and the operations that we acquired at the end and we undertook a number of highnuclear sector.
of 2010, the recovery of the construction profile projects and developed further market remains slower than expected.
Our markets in Spain and Ireland were innovative products that will maintain Our Chilean operation performed well, severely depressed in 2011.
We have our position at the leading edge of responding to increased demand in taken restructuring actions in both the industry.
Our specialist Paraslim reconstruction work and from the countries and have moved excess fleet composite bridge system was used to burgeoning mining sector.
We expect this out to markets with greater potential support the construction of the new M6 to continue in 2012.
DevelopMents - InvestMents named preferred bidder for one more, the Holt Park wellbeing centre in Leeds, Developments is responsible for two and reached financial close just before broad areas: directing the Groups the end of the year.
also in January 2012 PPP investment activities, leading the we were chosen as the successful bidder bid process and managing equity for the West Yorkshire Police PFI.
this investments: and taking the primary will involve the construction of two new role in driving the Groups strategic divisional headquarters, custody suites development, pursuing acquisitions, and a specialist operational training exploring new opportunities and facility with firearms ranges and publicDougIe sutherlAnD leading major, complex bids in market order and driver training facilities, and sectors which require cross-divisional ManaGInG DIrECtOr, the provision of FM services for 25 years involvement.
as it is a central function its DEvELOPMEntS thereafter.
We anticipate that the total costs are allocated to Group Centre and value of our construction and FM services its results reflect the performance of our will be approximately 150 million.
We have made a significant investment commitment on the signed contracts, our Developments division is of which 45.1 million 31 December 2010: 25.8 million has already been responsible for managing our paid and 13.0 million 31 December 2010: 30.1 million remained.
investment activities and for leading We expect our portfolio to be cash neutral over the medium term, with new our strategic developments.
investments being funded by disposals of mature projects.
With our considerable Our PPP equity investments continue expertise and track record in delivering, to make a healthy contribution to Group operating and financing using PPP earnings, with a total contribution to prestructures, we believe we are well placed tax profit of 10.0 million.
at 31 December to benefit from the development of similar 2011 we had 22 signed contracts funding arrangements for public sector 31 December 2010: 21, of which investments.
Our bidding in 2012 will 19 are now operational and three under concentrate on education, health and construction.
During the year we were strategic partnerships.
2011 2010 Change Contribution to total Operating Profit 6.0m 4.2m 42.9% Interest received on subordinated 4.0m 2.8m 42.9% debt investments 10.0m 7.0m 42.9% 22 Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew prIncIpAl rIsks And uncertAIntIes principal risks and uncertainties We operate in a business environment in which a number of The Group continues to be dependent on effective maintenance risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible to eliminate of its systems and controls.
Over and above that, the principal these completely, the established risk-management and internal risks and uncertainties which the Group addresses through its control procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Group risk-management measures are detailed below.
Risk Committee on behalf of the Board, are designed to manage their effects and thus contribute to the creation of value for the Groups shareholders as we pursue our business objectives.
BusIness, economIc And polItIcAl envIronment potential impact mitigation and monitoring Among the changes which could affect our business are: We seek to mitigate these risks by fostering long-term relationships with our clients and partners, our predominantly changes in our competitors behaviour: governmental quasi-governmental medium-to-long-term the imposition of unusually onerous contract conditions by revenue streams, the development of additional capabilities to major clients: meet anticipated demand in new growth areas of public service delivery, careful supply chain management and by operating in shifts in the economic climate both in the UK and various regions of the world, including the Middle East, where internationally: we are able to transfer resources to maximum effect between a deterioration in the profile of our counterparty risk: the differing economies of that region.
We also have in place committed financing of 246 million with a diversity of maturity alterations in the UK governments policy with regard to dates between 2015 and 2017.
We constantly monitor market expenditure on improving public infrastructure, buildings, conditions and assess our capabilities in comparison to those services and modes of service delivery: of our competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we analyse the reasons for our success or shortcomings and delays in the procurement of government-related projects: and feed the information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
civil unrest and or shifts in the political climate in some of the We also constantly monitor our cost base and take action to regions in which we operate ensure it is suitable given the prevailing market environment.
any one or more of which might result in a failure to win new or sufficiently profitable contracts in our chosen markets or to complete those contracts with sufficient profitability.
mAjor contrActs potential impact mitigation and monitoring As we focus on large-volume relationships with certain major Among our mitigation strategies are targeting work within, or clients for a significant part of our revenue, termination of one complementary to, our existing competencies, the fostering or more of the associated contracts would be likely to reduce of long-term relationships with clients, operating an authority our revenue and profit.
In addition, the management of such matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly management contracts entails potential risks including mispricing, inaccurate reporting with key performance indicators at contract and specification, failure to appreciate risks being taken on, poor business level, the use of monthly cost-value reconciliation, control of costs or of service delivery, sub-contractor insolvency supply chain management, taking responsibility for the and failure to recover, in part or in full, payments due for work administration of our PFI PPP SPCs, securing board undertaken.
In PFI PPP contracts, which can last for periods representation in them and ensuring that periodic of around 30 years and typically require the Special Purpose benchmarking and or market testing are included in Companies SPCs established by us and one or more third long-term contracts.
parties to provide for the future capital replacement of assets, there is a risk that such a company may fail to anticipate adequately the cost or timing of the necessary works or that there may be increases in costs, including wage inflation, beyond those anticipated.
overview business review governance financial statements Interserve AnnuAl report 2011 BusIness revIew prIncIpAl rIsks And uncertAIntIes 23 operAtIng system potential impact mitigation and monitoring We enjoy demonstrable success in working with third parties We have a proven track record of developing and re-enforcing both through joint ventures and associated companies in the UK such relationships in a mutually beneficial way over a long and abroad.
This success results in a material proportion of our period of time and our experience of this places us well to profits and cash flow being generated from businesses in which preserve existing relationships and create new ones as part we do not have overall control.
Any weakening of our strong of our business model.
The measures taken to limit risk in this relationships with these business partners could have an effect area include: board representation, shareholders agreements, on our profits and cash flow.
management secondments, local borrowings and rights of audit in addition to investing time in personal relationships.
key people potential impact mitigation and monitoring The success of our business is dependent on recruiting, We have a Group-wide leadership programme designed to retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with support the strategic aims of the Company.
We have various appropriately skilled, competent people of integrity at all levels of incentive schemes and run a broad range of training courses the organisation.
for people at all stages in their careers.
With active human resources management and Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, we manage our people professionally and encourage them to develop and fulfil their maximum potential with the Group.
heAlth And sAfety regIme potential impact mitigation and monitoring The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group involves A commitment to safety forms part of our mission statement exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and third and the subject leads every Board meeting both at Group and parties.
Management of these risks is critical to the success divisional level.
Each member of the Executive Board undertakes of the business and is implemented through the adoption and dedicated visits to look at health and safety measures in place maintenance of rigorous operational and occupational health at our operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns across and safety procedures.
the Group emphasising its importance.
fInAncIAl rIsks potential impact mitigation and monitoring We are subject to certain financial risks which are discussed in We have policies in place to monitor the effective management the Financial Review on pages 24 to 29. of working capital, including the production of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts together with monthly In particular, we carry out major projects which from time to management reporting.
time require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
A number of actions have been taken including closure of the Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in Defined Benefit Scheme to further accrual for all non-passport us being unable to meet our trading requirements and ultimately members from the end of December 2009, the contribution of to defaulting on our banking covenants.
PFI investments to the pension scheme and additional employer contributions in excess of the income statement charge.
We recognise a pension deficit on our balance sheet.
The deficits value is sensitive to several key assumptions which are discussed on page 28 of the Financial Review, and any significant changes in these may result in the Group having to increase its pension scheme contribution with a resultant impact on liquidity.
dAmAge to reputAtIon potential impact mitigation and monitoring Issues arising within contracts, from the management of our Control procedures and checks governing the operation businesses or from the behaviour of our employees at all levels of our contracts and of our businesses are supported by can have broader repercussions on the Groups reputation than business continuity plans and arrangements for managing the simply their direct impact.
communication of issues to our stakeholders.
