Operating Review Bringing quality to life Our expertise assures the quality of products and commodities in the global marketplace.
Commodities Our trade services programmes continued What we do Performance to support governments around the The Commodities division provides world, with both well-established and testing, inspection and other technical Financial Highlights new programmes delivering good services to the global petroleum and Change Change at revenue growth.
minerals industries, and supports trade at actual constant 2011 m rates rates activities that help the flow of goods On 30 November 2011 we acquired Revenue 530.2 12% 12% across borders.
"-BCT 5FTUJOH 4 "" B TNBMM DPNQBOZ Adjusted 67.0 23% 23% Our performance in 2011 based in Chile which allows the Group to operatingprofit 2011 was a strong year for Commodities expand its chemical and microbiological Adjusted with total revenue increasing 12% to services in South America."
This increase was mostly will benefit both the Commodities and organic.
At constant exchange rates Industry & Assurance divisions.
Total adjusted Revenue at actual rates m We expect growth in the demand for operating profit for the division was energy and other commodities to continue 530.2 67.0m up 23%.
The adjusted operating to drive testing and inspection revenues 473.2 margin was up 110 basis points at and we expect government trade services 12.6% at both actual and constant 12% to perform well.
The market for oil exchange rates.
inspection depends on underlying trade and consumer demand and is therefore There was strong demand for cargo more sensitive to economic circumstances.
inspection services across all regions as global trade continued to recover, while 2010 2011 clients also outsourced more of their analytical testing, improving lab utilisation Employees in the division.
The continued demand for raw materials in China drove growth in Brazil, Australia, Indonesia and 9,763 9,301 South Africa.
com Operating Review Lab testing Robotics Local knowledge Our global network of At our clients remote Our global standards laboratories provides quick location in Australia, our combined with local turnaround on the testing automated testing system service means customers of products ranging from jet analyses over 275,000 get the right service in fuels to industrial lubricants.
mineral samples annually the right location.
We literally go to the ends of the earth for our clients, working in some of the most isolated spots on the planet.
We support our customers, wherever they are, with reliable testing, inspection, measurement and other vital technical services.
Operating Review Bringing quality to life Industry & Assurance What we do portfolio of services for energy assets, Performance The Industry & Assurance division processes and products, creating a new provides a wide range of services including leading technical services platform for the Financial Highlights asset integrity management, engineering, global energy market and bringing global Change Change at inspection, auditing, certification, scale to the Groups systems certification at actual constant consulting, training, staffing, and testing 2011 m rates rates business.
We serve a wide variety of Revenue 468.6 145% 145% in over 80 offices and 60 countries have industries including oil, gas, petrochemical, Adjusted 50.9 207% 208% brought their experience and expertise operating profit power, renewable energy, and civil into the Intertek Group and the integration Adjusted and infrastructure.
We also provide has progressed smoothly.
Moody operating margin 10.9% 220bps 230bps services to customers in the food and benefitted from the structural recovery agricultural sectors.
of the energy market and performed ahead of expectations in the period Our performance in 2011 Revenue at actual rates m since acquisition.
"2011 has been a transformational year 468.6 for the Industry & Assurance division 0O VMZ XF BDRVJSFE 'PPE ""OBMZUJDBM following the acquisition of Moody onBCPSBUPSJFTJNJUFE B GPPE UFTUJOH 27 April."
Total revenue was 468.6m, MBCPSBUPSZ JO UIF 6, QSPWJEJOH DIFNJDBM 145% up 145% at both actual and constant and microbiological services for food exchange rates.
Excluding acquisitions QSPEVDFST JO UIF 6, 5IF EJWJTJPO XJMM BMTP 191.2 revenue growth was 7%.
Total adjusted CFOFGJU GSPN UIF BDRVJTJUJPO PGBCT operating profit was 50.9m up 207%.
Testing S. A. as described in Commodities 2010 2011 Excluding acquisitions adjusted operating on page 14. profit reported a marginal decline.
The Revenue growth in the division is total adjusted operating margin increased Employees driven by continued demand for energy, 220 basis points from 8.7% to 10.9% complexity in the supply chain and our 6,053 in 2011.
The organic operating margin at clients need for high quality independent constant exchange rates declined 60 basis advice.
The combined strength of the points to 7.9%, mainly due to difficult 118% integrated division will enable it to compete trading conditions in the agri sector.
in the global energy industry and systems 2,772 Moody is a leading provider of quality certification market, providing a broader and safety services to the energy industry.
more comprehensive range of services It also provides systems certification to customers.
Cost synergies from 2010 2011 services to the manufacturing, construction the integration of operations, support and service markets.
The acquisition, which services and facilities will benefit future was completed for a cash consideration of operating profit.
450m, extends the depth of the divisions 16 | www.
com Operating Review Powering safer futures Our engineers and specialists work with clients to ensure the highest quality, safety and reliability in the production and manufacture of goods and services across the entire supply chain.
Our client was constructing an oil QJQFMJOF JO, B[BLITUBO UISPVHI PVS site construction support and technical inspection services we helped increase efficiency and quality control while reducing risk.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 17 Operating Review Bringing quality to life Our expertise helps our customers gain faster, more efficient entry to virtually any market in the world through our global Consumer network of accredited laboratories.
Goods Growth in the Consumer Goods division What we do Performance was driven by the demand for testing The Consumer Goods division partners of textiles and toys, which continued to with global retailers, manufacturers and Financial Highlights increase despite concerns around global distributors to enhance clients products, Change Change at economic growth.
While cost pressures processes, and brands.
We provide at actual constant saw some changes in manufacturers 2011 m rates rates services to the textiles, toys, footwear, sourcing patterns away from China Revenue 315.7 4% 5% hardlines and retail industries amongst towards South East Asia and Eastern Adjusted others.
Our services include testing, operatingprofit 106.3 1% Europe, our global network of testing inspection, auditing, advisory services, Adjusted laboratories ensured we maintained close quality assurance, and hazardous operatingmargin 33.7% 120 bps 130 bps links with our customers and achieved substance testing.
good growth, notably in Vietnam, Our performance in 2011 Bangladesh, Turkey and Guatemala.
The Consumer Goods division continued Revenue at actual rates m to deliver growth, with total revenue of 0O VMZ XF BDRVJSFE 3FDIFSDIF 315.7 315.7m, an increase of 4% 5% at Developpement & Consulting Bruxelles 303.9 constant exchange rates.
The majority SA a company based in Belgium which of the growth was organic.
Total adjusted will enhance our environmental service 4% operating profit of 106.3m was flat offering in Europe and support our year-on-year at actual exchange rates strategic focus on sustainable business but up 1% at constant exchange rates.
practices across our client base.
The adjusted operating margin decreased The growth drivers in Consumer Goods 2010 2011 120 basis points to 33.7%, mainly due remain strong, with increased consumer to difficult trading conditions at the start demand for quality and safety, product of 2011.
Both revenue growth and the Employees sourcing from lower cost manufacturers operating margin improved significantly and legislative changes all creating a in the second half.
The development 9,177 8,842 of innovative solutions and delivery 4% models for clients will also help to grow revenues.
2010 2011 Zero injuries have been reported following the implementation of our meticulous quality and safety programme for toys marketed by one of our leading global clients.
interrte tek k.. co com m Operating Review Inspiring confidence As products compete in an ever more crowded marketplace, testing by Intertek represents a mark of quality that customers can trust.
Integrating safety and quality Our extensive range of testing procedures ensures that products meet or exceed legislative requirements, providing safe products for families around the world.
IIn nte ter rt te ek k A An nnu nua all R Re ep po or rt t 20 201 11 1 | | 19 19 Operating Review Bringing quality to life Commercial & Electrical China.
Our renewable energy business What we do Performance line also continued to grow strongly as The Commercial & Electrical division consumer demand for these products provides global manufacturers with the Financial Highlights increased.
We increased our organic most comprehensive scope of safety, Change Change at investment during 2011 to expand our performance and quality testing and at actual constant service offering to clients, including new 2011 m rates rates certification services.
We support clients facilities for electric vehicle testing in Revenue 291.0 8% 9% in a wide range of industries including Europe and Asia.
Adjusted home appliances, consumer electronics, operatingprofit 44.1 15% 16% lighting, medical, building, industrial and Proprietary certification marks owned Adjusted heating, ventilation, air conditioning and by Intertek and issued by the Commercial operatingmargin 15.2% 90bps 100bps refrigeration HVAC R, Information & Electrical division enable manufacturers Communication & Technology ICT, to show proof of compliance to safety renewable energy and automotive.
and quality requirements, as well as a Revenue at actual rates m Our performance in 2011 means of differentiating their products.
291.0 The Commercial & Electrical division Innovations in technology, particularly 269.2 delivered a strong result despite significant the growth in mobile applications and market uncertainty, with total revenue high speed networks are helping to 8% increasing 8% to 291.0m 9% growth drive testing and certification revenues, at constant exchange rates.
This growth alongside greater legislation.
We expect was wholly organic.
Total adjusted consumer demand for green products to operating profit was 44.1m, up 15% continue to grow and we are helping our 2010 2011 16% at constant exchange rates.
customers improve the energy efficiency The total adjusted operating margin of their products.
Our investment in was 15.2%, up 90 basis points up 100 testing facilities for electric vehicles and Employees basis points at constant exchange rates.
charging stations will also generate growth in revenue.
Growth was mainly in high tech sectors, 3,897 3,560 particularly the ICT, HVAC R and lighting 9% business lines in North America and 2010 2011 20 | www.
com Operating Review Our safety, performance and quality testing ensures that clients get to market first with innovation rather than imitation.
Adding value to manufacturers products and shortening time-to-market is at the core of our business.
Our expertise accelerates product development and makes our clients more competitive in global markets.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 21 Operating Review Bringing quality to life Our innovative outsourcing business models enable our clients to benefit from a better standard of service and Chemicals & higher quality laboratory support at a lower cost.
Pharmaceuticals services businesses faced challenging What we do Performance economic conditions, automotive, The Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals polymer testing and pilot plant services division helps global industries to sharpen Financial Highlights performed strongly.
"their competitive edge with expert Change Change at measurement and consulting services that at actual constant 0O ""VHVTU 2JOFUJ2 JO UIF 6, 2011 m rates rates support core business processes, ranging outsourced the operations and assets of its Revenue 143.9 5% 6% from new drug development through HMPCBM 'VFM BOEVCSJDBOUT 5FTUJOH #VTJOFTT Adjusted to the development of new materials, to Intertek."
This is an expert analysis and operatingprofit 12.8 8% 9% polymers composites and packaging.
consulting business enhancing Interteks Adjusted Our expertise helps clients in industries capabilities in energy and transport.
operatingmargin 8.9% 30bps 30bps as diverse as aerospace, automotive and The market for pharmaceutical services is pharmaceuticals to accelerate and fide-risk expected to remain challenging, however, new product research, improve efficiency Revenue at actual rates m the chemicals and materials sector is and safety in manufacturing and to expected to continue growing well, and ensure regulatory compliance with 143.9 136.7 the demand for health and environmental the appropriate authorities.
services should increase as the 2013 Our performance in 2011 5% deadline for the EU REACH regulations The division achieved good growth in a begins to impact our customers.
We will market that was challenging for parts of continue to support our customers the business, with total revenue increasing through outsourcing opportunities.
Excluding acquisitions, organic revenue growth was 3% 4% at constant exchange rates.
Total adjusted operating Employees profit for the division was 12.8m, up 8% 9% at constant exchange rates.
1,461 1,361 Excluding acquisitions, organic adjusted operating profit growth was 16% 17% 7% at constant exchange rates.
The total adjusted operating margin was 8.9%, up 30 basis points and the organic operating margin at constant 2010 2011 exchange rates was 10.7%, up 120 basis points.
Growth in operating profit and the operating margin was reduced by high costs in a business acquired in 2010.
The cost base of this business was restructured as planned at the end of 2011.
The chemicals and materials business drove organic growth in the year notably in the Netherlands and the USA.
Whilst both the pharmaceutical and regulatory 22 | www.
com Operating Review Our expertise provides critical support at key stages of drug development, saving our clients substantial time and cost as well as helping to accelerate the introduction of new and safer medicines.
Clinical quality Specialist knowledge Medical integrity In pharmaceuticals and Our experts help clients Using our expert services, healthcare we adhere to reduce the time-to-market we help our clients to the strictest codes of good for products such as: new identify counterfeit clinical, good laboratory and drugs, medical devices, medicines on sale to good manufacturing practice cosmetics, biocides and the public.
$1 -1 BOE D. 1 JO agrochemicals, by helping other elds we operate to clients navigate through the highest standards of complex regulatory laboratory quality.
Our product failure investigations can save clients time and money by determining the root cause of problems and validating quality control methods to meet the requirements of regulators.
