Business review Operating review Justin King Chief Executive Good sales and profit performance: continued delivery against growth plans.
Weekly customer transactions now 21 million, up one Financial summary million on last year Total sales including VAT, including fuel up 7.1 per cent Over 6,000 jobs created through store investment to 22,943 million 2009 10: 21,421 million Hat-trick of awards at 2010 Retail Industry Awards: Total sales including VAT, excluding fuel up 4.9 per Community Retailer of the Year, Convenience Retailer cent, like-for-like sales including VAT, excluding fuel of the Year, Seafood Retailer of the Year up 2.3 per cent Cost savings fully offset inflationary increases Underlying profit before tax up 9.0 per cent to 665 million 2009 10: 610 million Underlying operating margin accretion of 14 bps 20 bps at constant fuel prices Underlying basic earnings per share up 10.9 per cent to 26.5 pence 2009 10: 23.9 pence Making Sainsburys Great Again Return on capital employed of 11.1 per cent, up 11 bps 2009 10: 11.0 per cent Food: Opened six new food colleges to train over 10,000 colleagues each year.
Successful re-launch of 1 billion Proposed full year dividend of 15.1 pence, up 6.3 per cent, Taste the Difference brand.
Largest ever investment in cover 1.75x 2009 10: 14.2 pence, cover 1.68x own-brand underway with review of 6,500 by Sainsburys products Statutory Non-food: Growing at more than three times rate of food.
Revenue excluding VAT, including fuel up 5.7 per cent Now UKs seventh largest clothing retailer to 21,102 million 2009 10: 19,964 million Channels: Convenience now 1 billion business: groceries Profit before tax up 12.8 per cent to 827 million online growing at over 20 per cent: Click & Collect in 2009 10: 733 million over 160 stores: Sainsburys Bank pre-tax operating profit up over 50 per cent Basic earnings per share up 7.2 per cent to 34.4 pence 2009 10: 32.1 pence Space: 1.5 million square feet gross new space this year, exceeding 15 per cent two-year target Operating highlights Property: Value of portfolio now 10.5 billion, up 0.7 billion.
275 million net proceeds from sale and Outperformed the market in challenging environment, leasebacks and 108 million property profits increasing market share J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 5 Business review Operating review continued Overview Impact of fuel price in ation Sainsburys has continued to grow market share with Petrol price Customer spend customers responding well to our offer of healthy, fresh Volume per transaction and tasty food at great value.
Customer numbers are 140 now at an all-time high with 21 million transactions a 140 week, which is one million higher than this time last year.
130 130 120 We have made strong progress in each of our five areas 120 of focus.
Offering great food at fair prices remains at the 110 110 heart of our offer, as we have continued to invest in our own-brand products.
For example, we had a major re-launch 100 100 of our Taste the Difference range, whilst our Great Food 90 90 initiative is ensuring we offer the very best quality and service at our fresh food counters.
We are accelerating the 80 80 growth of complementary non-food and services with an Mar09 Mar10 Mar 11 expansion of our range, which we have made available to Source: Internal data, indexed to March 2009 more customers through the development of our estate and online offer.
We are reaching more customers through additional channels, with our convenience stores now bringing in annual sales of over 1 billion and online sales continuing to grow strongly.
We continue to grow range of over 650 products are growing year-on-year, supermarket space successfully and have exceeded the as customers continue to look for ways to save money.
space growth target of 15 per cent we set ourselves two years ago.
Finally, we continue to focus on active property In addition we benefit from the competitive advantages management and during the year we generated 275 the Nectar loyalty programme brings us.
The scheme is million proceeds from the sale and leaseback of stores now even stronger through the addition of British Gas and with no further property development potential, easyJet, offering our customers even more ways to earn contributing to total property profits of 108 million.
There are now 17.5 million Nectar card holders and there are 800,000 more card holders shopping at Sainsburys than this time last year.
Trading and operational review Sainsburys has continued to outperform the market in Responsible sourcing challenging economic conditions.
Total sales excluding fuel were up 4.9 per cent, with like-for-like sales up 2.3 per cent.
This was delivered during a period when household budgets have been under significant pressure, most notably from record fuel price inflation.
Customer transactions are now at an all-time high of 21 million per week.
We attracted new customers not only to our new stores but also to our existing stores, demonstrating the strength of our universal customer appeal.
In particular, we have worked hard to keep our prices as low as possible despite the rising costs of ingredients, while not compromising on quality or choice.
Trading intensity in our existing estate continued to grow.
However, this progression was offset by a greater number of new stores whose sales are still in their growth stage, the higher proportion of space dedicated to non-food and the disruption experienced at the increased number of extensions this year.
Overall trading intensity therefore decreased year-on-year.
Over the year, we have done much to help customers manage their weekly spend as they are increasingly savvy with their shopping and look around for the best value.
Our We moved all our own-brand canned tuna to pole and line Value where it matters campaign offers savings on leading caught in 2009, and as a result this year we were rated brands: we check over 30,000 competitor prices each No.
1 by Greenpeace for responsible sourcing.
We have week to ensure our prices remain great value and this is since seen tinned tuna sales rise by nearly 15 per cent in the supported by other campaigns such as offering over 1,000 final quarter.
We also announced that all tuna used as an products for 1 or less.
Our meal planner tip cards have ingredient would be moving to pole and line caught by the also been very popular, helping shoppers feed a family of end of January 2011.
Tuna is the third biggest-selling fish in four with five tasty and nutritious meals cooked from Sainsburys and the move will now see 1,500 tonnes of fish scratch for 20.
In addition, sales of our expanding Basics move to the more sustainable catch method every year.
6 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review t n e r e f O f i p d e r s a u t i e o k n a a Operating review continued Nationwide consumer con dence index Reducing our packaging Expectations Index Some highlights from the last year Nationwide Consumer confidence Index Present Situation Index 140 Fresh tomatoes saved 120 100 150 tonnes 80 Soft fruit saved over 60 40 20 440 tonnes 0 Total own-brand packaging saved Jul 09 Jan 10 Jul 10 Jan 11 Source: Nationwide 8,000 tonnes Customers have enjoyed targeted offers through our reduce, re-use and recycle.
On Easter eggs alone we have coupon at till programme, unique in the UK, and in the last reduced our packaging by nearly 60 per cent since 2008. year alone we issued over 240 million coupons.
Our ability to apply the unique insight Nectar data provides was Our in-house procurement team has helped keep a tight recognised at the Data Strategy Awards with the Best control on operating costs and was independently Use of Data in Retail award.
recognised as world-class for its effectiveness and efficiency.
This, together with productivity savings and More than ever, customers expect high ethical standards our strong sales performance, has increased underlying in our sourcing and this shows in our sales figures.
For operating margins by 14 bps and has helped to achieve example, having been rated by Greenpeace as the best UK good underlying profit before tax growth of nine per cent.
retailer for sustainable tuna and, through wider recognition We are proud of the strong achievements we have made of our sustainable sourcing methods, sales of our tinned and are pleased that colleagues will share in a bonus of tuna rose by nearly 15 per cent in the final quarter alone.
around 60 million as a result of their hard work.
This is Also, Christmas sales of our Freedom Food Norfolk Black less than last years record bonus award as we set turkeys were up 30 per cent on last year.
In fact, despite ourselves stretching targets and will continue to do so.
the challenging weather conditions, we had a recordbreaking Christmas.
Our colleagues worked extremely Our five areas of focus hard to provide great service to our customers, serving We continue to operate around our five areas of focus that over 24.6 million of them in the seven days up to and are key to achieving a successful business performance.
These areas of strategic focus are underpinned by our five key values which help us to prioritise and ensure we We continue to look for opportunities to streamline our conduct ourselves in an ethical and sustainable manner.
operations, improve the customer shopping experience We believe they set us apart from other retailers.
and make things simpler for colleagues, while also making significant cost savings.
We now offer the option of selfscan checkouts in nearly 700 stores and they account for over 40 per cent of transactions in these stores.
We have reduced the amount of paper used for store receipts by two fifths, equivalent to over 350 tonnes annually, by using double-sided printing.
Over the last four years our Energy Reset programme has saved the equivalent energy needed Active property Great food at management for 90 supermarkets, reducing energy usage by 16 per cent fair prices in each store.
We have also introduced further efficiencies within our Accelerating Growing the growth of supply chain to get products onto our shelves more quickly supermarket complementary space and to improve the efficiency of our warehouses, vehicle non-food ranges and services use and driver deployment.
For example, we have reduced the distance our products travel from depot to store by Reaching more customers around 2.5 per cent and our investment in new supply through additional channels chain technology will significantly reduce waste and cut CO emissions by almost 70,000 tonnes a year.
Additionally 2 we have reduced own-brand packaging by 8,000 tonnes in the last year, as we make it easier for our customers to J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 7 m l e s x e c u e l l a l e v n r c u e O Business review Operating review continued Taste the Difference re-launch 1 Great food at fair prices In September we re-launched our premium Taste the Difference range, a range of over 1,000 products, to give our tastiest food range ever.
This was our biggest ever investment in own-brand, with over 700 new and improved products.
The re-launch included a new Bistro range which offers a selection of restaurant-quality starters, mains and desserts made using premium ingredients and the very best cooking methods.
Sales of Taste the Difference were up by nearly ten per cent over Christmas.
Offering safe, healthy, fresh and tasty food is at the heart this, we were awarded a BBC Radio 4 Food and Farming of what we do.
A major area of development this year has Award for our work in helping farmers reduce their carbon been our Great Food programme, which aims to ensure footprint.
We offer British products at their best, when we continue to have a market-leading food and wine offer.
in season and when quality meets our customers In particular, our investment in our food counters has expectations.
In Spring, we were number one in the UK for made them a destination for many of our customers.
British asparagus and Jersey Royals.
We are also number We refreshed the offer, from the range to the display, in one for English pears and we sell almost one in four of all 110 stores and have now introduced fresh pizza counters to British apples when in season.
We continued our direct-tonearly 140 stores.
Over the coming year we will recruit and store initiative, with over 80 stores receiving strawberries train more than 500 new counter and caf colleagues to or potatoes direct from local farmers.
Nearly 80 per cent meet increased demand at the counters and to support the of our bakeries bake a selection of products from scratch growth in our cafs.
These recruits, as well as up to 10,000 and they only use British flour for this.
colleagues already working on the meat, fish, deli, hot food counters and cafs, will receive training at one of the six Our British seasonal fish sales were up over 50 per cent food colleges we have opened across the UK.
The colleges over the year and we now offer 100 per cent fresh fish provide in-depth training from experts in areas like product never frozen on our counters: in addition we were the knowledge and food preparation, helping us to offer the first UK supermarket to sell fresh dab as a way to reduce very best food and service to customers.
fish being discarded from the catch.
We are also proud to be the UKs leading retailer of Marine Stewardship Customers remain very loyal to our own-brand products Certified MSC fish, with over 80 different sustainable and we sell more proportionately than any of the major MSC products.
In recognition of our efforts, we were supermarkets.
This gives us a significant competitive awarded Seafood Retailer of the Year at the 2010 Retail advantage and is an important way of offering our Industry Awards, a credit to our buying teams and a customers great value.
We have invested across all our reflection of our commitment to do the right thing for own-brand ranges this year, with over 5,000 new or our environment and sustainable sourcing.
improved products introduced, including a major re-launch of our Taste the Difference range prior to Christmas.
This Ethical issues remain important to our customers and, re-launch covered the entire range of over 1,000 products with over 12 per cent of our own-brand products coming and was our largest ever one-off investment in own-brand.
from certified sustainable sources, we are meeting their Our core own-brand range offers quality equal to or better needs.
One pound in every four spent on Fairtrade in the than the leading brand but is at least 20 per cent cheaper.
UK is spent at a Sainsburys store and, as more products Over the next year we will be reviewing this 6,500 product have been added, our sales of Fairtrade products have range individually and benchmarking all aspects, including reached over 280 million this year.
Having been the first taste, nutrition and packaging, to ensure we offer the best ever UK retailer to offer eggs from cage-free birds, all products on the market.
This will be our largest ever our fresh eggs now meet this standard and the RSPCA investment in our own-brand products.
The RSPCA recognised our commitment to animal welfare with the Most Progress We go to great lengths to source with integrity, and award at their annual Good Business Awards.
continue to support British agriculture.
In recognition of 8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review Operating review continued Six new Food Colleges 2 Accelerating the growth of complementary non-food and services This year we opened six new food colleges across the country, to help us deliver the very best food and service to customers.
The colleges offer training to colleagues working on the meat, fish, deli and hot food counters, as well as our cafs and we anticipate that over 10,000 colleagues will pass through the colleges each year.
The food colleges follow on from the successful opening of Sainsburys bakery college earlier in the year.
At present, supermarkets account for less than 15 per cent 1 in 4 of all Fairtrade sales in the UK of the UK non-food market and this represents a significant are at Sainsburys opportunity for us.
This year we have made excellent progress in the development and accessibility of our nonfood ranges and sales are growing at more than three times the rate of food.
Our focus on high street style at supermarket prices is clearly popular with customers and, together with the convenience of buying general merchandise at the same time as shopping for food, this has helped to grow our market share.
It has been an outstanding year for the quality and value of Clothing market share positions our products and our high standards have been recognised by many other industry awards this year.
In July, we won th Meat and Fish Retailer of the Year at the Supermeat and Schoolwear 4 Fish Awards: we won over 100 awards at the Nantwich th International Cheese Awards: and we won nine Quality Childrenswear 7 Food Awards, more than any other retailer.
Great food is th complemented by great wine and our new House range is Womenswear 9 now one of the UKs fastest-growing wine brands.
We won th Drinks Retailer of the Year at the Drinks Business Awards Clothing 7 and enjoyed the most wins at both the International Wines Source: Sales by volume, Kantar 24 weeks ending 20 March 2011 and Spirits Competition and the Quality Drink Awards.
In clothing, our TU brand is now the seventh largest in Our leadership position in offering great food, which is the UK market by volume, which underlines our fashion also sustainably and ethically sourced, remains key to credibility.
In womenswear, we are expanding successfully our customers and we will continue to invest further into accessories and lingerie.
Our childrenswear is now in our offer as we strive to exceed the standards they seventh in the market by volume, with sales having grown expect of us.
by over 20 per cent year-on-year, and the success of our Back to School range makes us now fourth in that market, up from sixth last year.
Menswear has also grown by over 18 per cent on last year.
As we continue to expand our ranges, we were delighted to announce that Gok Wan will create a number of womenswear collections for us, with the first collection hitting the shelves later this year.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 9 Business review Operating review continued Our general merchandise ranges have been important Sainsburys Energy re-launch to our non-food growth.
We are enjoying growth rates of over 20 per cent in many areas, including books and home textiles.
In entertainment and electricals market-leading offers on key titles have been a great success.
For example, prior to Christmas, nearly one in four of all copies of Shrek 4 DVDs sold in shops were bought at Sainsburys.
These figures will continue to become more significant as it is expected that 40 per cent of new space will be devoted to our non-food ranges, which will account for one third of our supermarket sales growth.
As a result of the growth In February, Sainsburys Energy was re-launched in a of our non-food business, and the further development ground-breaking partnership with British Gas.
We are of direct sourcing in this area, we have seen an increase working together to help British households get the right in the levels of our inventory at the end of the year.
information about how they can produce and manage their energy now and in the years ahead.
Our aim is to become There is a clear opportunity to turn more of our the number one destination for customers looking for new supermarkets into larger, destination stores.
Our new energy technologies, energy efficiency measures and great 100,000 sq ft stores in Crayford, Lincoln and Stanway are energy deals, so we can help them to reduce costs, while good examples.
They represent a major change in the scale also reducing carbon emissions.
and presentation of our clothing, general merchandise and electrical goods ranges, and feature leading popular brands such as Disney, Clarks, O and Speedo.
To support 2 our growth in non-food we have also invested in people, IT and the supply chain.
Our Shanghai office is improving our buying capacity and we have strengthened our clothing sourcing capabilities by opening an office in 3 Bangladesh.
Through these and logistics efficiencies in warehouse operation and route planning we ensure we keep the environmental footprint of our non-food business Reaching as low as possible.
more customers We are extending our brand into other complementary through non-food areas, while also maximising the benefits of the Nectar scheme for customers.
Sainsburys Energy, in additional partnership with British Gas and linked to Nectar, offers channels customers convenient access to products such as solar panels and insulation, as well as advice such as home energy assessments, to help make their homes more efficient, keep their bills down and reduce their impact on the environment.
Sainsburys Bank, providing insurance products, banking services and transactional services such as travel money, had a strong year with pre-tax operating profit growing by over 50 per cent.
We have continued to focus on growing customer loyalty and have strengthened our relationship with our customers through the Double Nectar Reward proposition, which is now available on five finance products.
Our insurance business has also grown With 377 stores and over 900,000 sq ft of space our strongly, with new business up 25 per cent on the year.
convenience store business is well established and delivers We now have 118 travel money kiosks in our stores, annual sales of over 1 billion with like-for-like sales growth attracting over half a million customers this year alone, ahead of our supermarkets.
The stores give our customers and we also provide our customers with over 1,200 ATM an opportunity to top up their supermarket shop, while machines.
providing local communities with a strong fresh food offer, easy shopping and excellent customer service, which was Our industry-leading offer has been recognised by a recognised with the award of Convenience Retailer of the number of high-profile consumer and industry awards Year at the Retail Industry Awards.
in the last year including: Best Credit Card Provider Consumer Moneyfacts Awards 2011 : Best New Credit Card and Best Personal Loan Provider Moneynet Personal Finance Awards 2011 : and Best Overall Online Provider Your Money Awards 2010.
10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review Operating review continued The convenience store market is still unconsolidated, with supermarket chains owning only 15 per cent of the markets 50,000 shops.
We opened 47 new stores this year and we plan to open one to two stores per week over 4 the next year, with a healthy pipeline of prospective stores and opportunities for leasehold sites.
We have also recently opened a trial Fresh Kitchen store in Central London, serving hot and cold food and drink for breakfast Growing and lunch customers.
supermarket Our online groceries business continues to grow, with annual sales up over 20 per cent and weekly orders now space regularly over 130,000.
The service can now reach over 93 per cent of UK households, through 187 stores.
Non-food online sales also continue to grow, supported by the introduction of our Click and Collect service, now in over 160 stores, which allows customers the freedom to pick up non-food items ordered online at a store and time convenient for them, rather than waiting at home for a delivery.
We continue to take advantage of the unique opportunity Click and Collect that we have to grow our space.
This year, we opened 21 new stores, 24 extensions and 47 convenience stores, equivalent to 1.5 million sq ft of gross new space, or 8.5 per cent growth year-on-year.
In the two years to March 2011 we have grown our gross space by 15.9 per cent, beating Over the 15 per cent target we set in March 2009.
Of our new stores opened in the last two years, over 70 per cent were 1 in 3 in Scotland, Wales or the South West where we are under- 160 represented.
Our extensions are largely in the South and of non-food online stores East where we are principally introducing or extending our orders non-food offer.
We expect to maintain this momentum into next year, growing gross space by seven to eight per cent in 2011 12 including 15-20 new stores, 15-20 extensions and one to two convenience stores a week.
This was rolled out to over 160 stores over the year and now takes more than 1 in 3 of non-food online orders.
In future years, we plan to add around 1.25 million sq ft of new space per year and we expect to continue to be able to secure new development opportunities as quickly as we open stores, which offers us growth potential for many years to come.
We now have a strong property pipeline with clear line of sight on new stores and extensions we will open in the future.
This pipeline is supported by over 70 planning consents for future store extensions.
At the same time, economies of scale are enabling us to carry out our store expansion programme more cost-effectively and build to standard specifications with minimum customer disruption.
Over the past three years we have reduced standard build and fit-out costs by 15-20 per cent per sq ft and we continue to improve on this.
As a result of our cost efficiency savings and good sales growth we have achieved growth in return on capital employed in spite of the cumulative effect of our accelerated investment in space growth since June 2009 and the greater proportion of our stores yet to reach maturity.
We expect to achieve a pre-tax rate of return in excess of 15 per cent on our investment programme.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 11 Business review Operating review continued Environmentally responsible Growing our space development In the last two years we have opened 59 New supermarkets As we grow our estate we now include several environmental features as standard.
These include: rain water harvesting to supply water for flushing all the toilets: CO refrigeration: biomass boilers, which reduce mains 2 energy use by 30 per cent and CO emissions by ten per 2 37 cent: sun pipes to maximise use of natural light through the roof: daylight dimming for the electric lights across the Extensions sales area: and our Zero Waste to Landfill programme.
As we grow our estate, we are conducting industry-leading initiatives aimed at reducing our environmental impact as our aim is to grow our sales but minimise our emissions.
These include rainwater harvesting, biomass boilers which reduce mains energy use by 30 per cent and CO emissions 2 by ten per cent, and the use of natural light and energysaving lighting.
The extension of our Crayford store also 98 achieved a world first by using Geo Exchange technology Convenience to capture unused heat and store it deep underground for later use.
Despite the store doubling in size, we have stores capped its carbon emissions at the same level as the former store.
We set out to generate a positive economic and social Store numbers impact in the communities we serve.
In the past year alone, we have created over 6,000 new jobs through our store Supermarkets Convenience stores expansion plans and over the next three years we will create over 20,000 new full and part-time positions, 2010 11 557 with opportunities to suit all members of the community.
2010 11 377 We know the success of our business relies on lively, productive and customer-focused colleagues and through our You Can training and skills programme we aim to be the employer of choice in the retail sector.
Our progress is demonstrated through being the first-ever major food retailer to have been awarded a gold accreditation from Investors in People.
Our colleagues invest a large amount of time supporting local charities and community groups: 934 through our support for local charities, over 1.5 million Stores in total has gone to local causes in the last year and our colleagues have volunteered over 6,500 days.
Our efforts have been recognised with the Community Retailer of the Year award, which acknowledged in particular the time and investment 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 given by our colleagues in their local communities.
12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Business review Operating review continued We believe we have built and maintained a very strong Supporting the community property portfolio.
It includes 304 freehold and long Last year we donated leasehold supermarkets, plus 41 stores in property joint ventures in which we have a 50 per cent share.
Our freehold to leasehold split across our supermarket property portfolio remains around 65 per cent.
Of the supermarkets we own, 86 are in our development plan, with a further 16 having potential for mixed-use schemes, and 143 having longer-term potential subject to planning, economic and physical viability.
Of the properties held in joint ventures, 16 are in the development plan, with a further 16 having longer-term potential.
There are also three potential mixed-use schemes.
Growth in property value Over 1.5m Food donations Over 1.5m Donated to local charities In the last two years our estimated property value has increased by 5 Over 3 bn This is due to 2.2 billion yield improvement, 1.2 billion from our investment and development of assets, and Active property 0.4 billion from disposals.
management A key element of our property strategy is recycling capital to invest in profitable growth.
Stores which are fully developed, we consider for sale.
By taking advantage of attractive yields on these assets, we generated 275 million proceeds during the year contributing to property profits of 108 million, up from 27 million last year.
Going forward, the creation of value through our property portfolio and our growth in supermarket space is key to increasing the return on our investments.
At 19 March 2011, the market value of the property we own was estimated at 10.5 billion, an increase of 0.7 billion over the year.
Of this increase, 0.5 billion has been from an improvement in yields and a further 0.5 billion has come from the value created through our development activity, offset by disposals of 0.3 billion.
Owning this valuable property asset allows us to retain operational flexibility, provide security for funding, make the most of development opportunities, as well as unlock value through sale and leasebacks when these properties are fully developed.
All of these factors serve to maximise value for shareholders.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 13
