16 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations Christopher Hand The successful acquisition of MIS made 2011 a transformational year for Lamprell from an operating perspective.
The successful acquisition of MIS in July and the large number of major project awards made 2011 a transformational year for Lamprell from an operating perspective.
Post acquisition, the Groups facility capacity 2 increased by 68% to over 925,000m including, 2.2km of quayside.
In addition, the enlarged Group employs over 14,000 people, including labour supply personnel, management, administration, operational personnel and field staff.
This enlarged capacity and increased resource enables the Group to improve operational efficiency and positions the Company for continued growth.
Lamprell continues to place the highest priority on maintaining high standards of project execution, with a particular emphasis on safety, high quality standards and delivering projects on time and on budget.
This focus on project execution, as well as client satisfaction, both ensures that Lamprell maintains and strengthens relationships with existing customers and enables Lamprell to expand its customer base.
Post the acquisition, a great deal of focus has been placed on the successful integration of the enlarged Groups facilities and business.
As well as the physical integration of the extended Sharjah facility, this process has focused on the organisation structure, the implementation of the Companys management systems, marketing and business development, the extension of the ongoing ERP implementation programme and securing planned synergies.
The integration process has proceeded extremely well and will be completed in 2012.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Throughout 2011 and the start of 2012 the Group has maintained its focus on Health, Safety and Environmental HSE issues.
The Group has the following HSE certification which is founded on a Group HSE policy and detailed procedures: ISO 14001:2007 for the Jebel Ali facility OHSAS 18001:2007 for the Jebel Ali facility OHSAS 18001:2007 for the Hamriyah Free Zone facility obtained in 2011 The principal markets in which Lamprell NDC S116E jackup drilling rigs OHSAS 18001:2007 for the Sharjah operates, and the principal services Lamprell signed the contract with the facility provided are: National Drilling Company, Abu Dhabi NDC to construct two LeTourneau Lamprell has a Group Quality department Oil & Gas S116E jackup drilling rigs in July 2010. with quality assurance and quality New Build Jackup Drilling Rigs The engineering and procurement control personnel located at each New Build Offshore phases of this contract are now facility.
The Lamprell Group is certified Engineering & Construction substantially complete and the to ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Rig Refurbishment construction of both units at the System standard and various American Land Rig Services Hamriyah facility is well advanced.
Petroleum Institute API and American Society of Mechanical Renewable Energy The first rig, Makasib, was loaded Engineers ASME standards.
Wind Farm Installation Vessels out in October 2011 and the cantilever and remaining leg sections have Lamprells Hamriyah, Sharjah & Jebel Services subsequently been installed.
The rig is Ali facilities are certified to ISO Inspec NDT, Mechanical & now undergoing final commissioning 9001:2008 standard and the Land Rig Calibration Services and will be delivered in Q2 2012.
Services group is certified to ISO Engineering Services 9001:2008, ISO 29001, API Q1, Sunbelt H s Safety Services Construction of the second rig, 2 monogram licence for API spec 2B, 2C, Operations & Maintenance Muhaiyimat, is also proceeding to 4F, 5CT, 6A, 7-1, 7K, 8C, 16A, 16C & plan and the rig was loaded out in 16D.
Compliance with these standards January 2012.
Construction and The operational aspects of these business assures our customers that we have the activities are reviewed as follows: subsequently final commissioning will capability to execute projects in continue until delivery later in 2012. accordance with their specifications and New Build Offshore Drilling Rigs requirements and the Company was In October 2011, NDC exercised At the beginning of the year Lamprell successfully audited in 2011 to ensure was executing three new build offshore options for two further LeTourneau that we are adhering to these standards.
drilling rig projects and subsequently Super 116E rigs.
Engineering and secured contracts for an additional five procurement activities are ongoing The strength of Lamprells operations is units.
Therefore at the close of the year and both rigs will be constructed at reflected in the order book which was the Group was constructing a total of the Hamriyah facility, with delivery at a record high of USD 1,215m at the eight jackup rigs.
scheduled in 2014. year end and included USD 489m from new customers and USD 726m from These projects are under construction repeat customers.
at the Hamriyah and Sharjah facilities.
18 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations continued OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Jindal Pipes Singapore Pte.
Eurasia Drilling Company Limited EDC S116E jackup drilling rig Limited Jindal S116E jackup drilling rig Lamprell signed a contract with EDC in November 2010 for a new build Lamprell was awarded a new contract in November 2011 from Jindal for the LeTourneau S116E jackup drilling rig to be delivered to EDC in the Caspian construction and delivery of a Sea.
The construction plan for this completely outfitted and equipped, project is to build the rig hull in modules LeTourneau Super 116E design rig.
which, together with other primary rig The rig is designed to operate in water components including the legs and depths of up to 350 feet and will have cantilever, will be transported to the a rated drilling depth of 30,000 feet.
Caspian Sea through the VolgaThe engineering and procurement Don canal.
phase of the project is well advanced and the construction is proceeding at The modules and other rig components the Hamriyah facility.
The rig will be have been under construction delivered in Q4 2013. throughout 2011 at the Hamriyah facility and the first of four shipments to the Compaa Perforadora Mexico Caspian Sea commenced in March S. A. P. I. fide C. V. PEMSA Hull 108 2012.
Super M2 jackup drilling rig In December Lamprell successfully The rig will be assembled at a facility in negotiated a contract with PEMSA, a Astrakhan, Russia and delivery is subsidiary of Grupo Mexico, for the scheduled for 2013. construction and delivery of Hull 108, a completely outfitted and equipped, Greatship Global Energy Services Friede & Goldman designed Super M2 Pte.
Ltd Greatship S116E jackup self-elevating Mobile Offshore Drilling drilling rig Platform.
The first new build jackup award of 2011 was secured with Greatship in Hull 108 had been partially constructed February to build a LeTourneau by MIS at the time of its acquisition by designed rig to operate in water depths Lamprell in July 2011 and the project of up to 350 feet.
had been suspended pending a contract award.
Lamprell will complete The engineering and procurement the construction of the jackup rig at the phase of the project is well advanced Sharjah facility, with delivery scheduled and the construction is proceeding at for Q2 2012. the Hamriyah facility.
The rig will be loaded out in Q3 and delivered during Q4 2012.
20 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations continued New Build Offshore The first contract comprises a two-level Leighton Offshore Pte Ltd wellhead deck, measuring approximately Leighton topsides and jackets The new build offshore segment of Lamprell operations covers a wide 50 metres by 50 metres and weighing In February 2012, Lamprell was awarded 4,000 tonnes.
The wellhead deck will a USD 62m contract by Leighton, a range of projects including: be constructed at Lamprells Jebel Ali Singapore based company, for the yard, and is scheduled for completion fabrication of two topsides and jackets liftboats: tender assist drilling barges: in Q2 2013. with metering skid and associated piping in connection with the Iraq crude MOPUs and process barges: offshore drilling rig components and The second contract is for a three-level oil export facility reconstruction.
Production, Utilities and Quarters accessories: floating offshore facilities: PUQ Deck, measuring 85 metres by The work will be performed at 40 metres and weighing 10,000 tonnes.
Lamprells enlarged Sharjah facility and living quarters: offshore hook-up: The PUQ Deck will also be constructed are currently scheduled for delivery in at Lamprells Jebel Ali facility and is Q4 2012. process modules: offshore fixed structures: and scheduled for completion in Q2 2014.
The construction phase of both mooring systems and turrets.
contracts has commenced and is proceeding to schedule.
In Q1 2011, the group delivered the final Aquila process module for Saipem Energy Services S. p. A. and two offshore wellhead platforms with associated jackets and piles were also delivered to a leading Indian oil & gas operator.
These projects were executed at the Jebel Ali facility.
Offshore topside structure Work continues in Jebel Ali on the construction of an offshore topside structure comprising of a two-level utility deck and five level accommodation module for 38 personnel for a leading integrated energy provider.
The project is being constructed to North Sea standards and is currently scheduled for delivery alongside the Jebel Ali quay in Q2 2012.
Nexen Petroleum U. K. Limited Nexen wellhead deck and Production, Utilities and Quarters PUQ deck In November, Lamprell announced that it had been awarded two new construction contracts by Nexen in relation to the Golden Eagle Development in the UK North Sea, with a total contract value in excess of USD 200m.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Engineering and Construction E&C Lamprell E&C offers the combined expertise of Lamprell and MIS, providing fully integrated engineered solutions to the onshore and offshore oil & gas and renewable energy sectors.
The group is structured to deliver projects in the UAE, GCC, Iraq and North Africa.
Onshore projects include the development and upgrade of gas Projects have been shared between rigs, oilfield service companies and plants refineries and production facilities and offshore projects include jackets our UAE facilities, with the Hamriyah drilling equipment refurbishment for facility working on 17 jackups and the land and offshore rigs.
The Land Rig and decks, as well as process modules.
Sharjah facility working on 26 rigs.
Services group operates from API accredited facilities in Hamriyah, Jebel A number of projects were executed in 2011 including both onshore and Refurbishment and upgrade projects Ali, Dubai Investment Park and Kuwait such as these vary greatly in scope and also provides field services as offshore site works for clients including Rak Petroleum Oman Ltd, Apina from project to project and depend on required.
Project types include: the existing condition of each rig and Middle East, Geo Energi, Petrofac and RAK Gas.
new build land rigs: A minor project can have a work land rig refurbishment, upgrade and In addition, the group engineered, schedule lasting a few days, whereas a recertification: major upgrade project with a significant land and offshore drilling rig rotary constructed and delivered multiple pressure vessels and columns from its engineering requirement can last for 12 equipment inspection and overhaul: months or more.
Typical upgrade and engineering and fabrication of Sharjah facility.
refurbishment projects include some of structural and piping packages, the following work scope: machined items and BOP testing Lamprell believes there is an opportunity to significantly expand the and recertification: leg extensions and or strengthening: land camp construction and scope and scale of the E&C business and this is an area of strategic focus conversion of slot rigs to cantilever refurbishment: and mode: site deployment of personnel.
in 2012. living quarters extension, upgrade and refurbishment: Weatherford Drilling International Upgrade and Refurbishment of Offshore Jackup Rigs engine replacement and repower BVI Ltd Weatherford 3000 HP works: land drilling rigs Lamprell worked on a total of 43 jackup rigs throughout the year, for clients mud process system upgrade and In March 2011, Land Rig Services or refurbishment: secured the largest contract awards to including Millennium Offshore Services, Nabors Drilling International Ltd. Helideck replacement, upgrade and date for the business, as Weatherford National Drilling Company, Noble or refurbishment: and signed contracts for the engineering, International Ltd. and RDC Arabia condition-driven refurbishment, construction and delivery of two Drilling Inc. and these projects have including structural steel and piping 3000HP land drilling rigs, with a total included work scopes covering the full replacement and painting.
range of our upgrade and refurbishment services.
Land Rig Services Lamprell constructed the rigs at its Land Rigs Services include all projects facility in Jebel Ali.
and services related to onshore drilling 22 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations continued OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Post acquisition, the Groups facility capacity increased by 68% to over 2 925,000m, including 2.2km of quayside.
Service businesses Wind Farm Installation Vessels In October 2011, having substantially Lamprell operates a number of service businesses that provide services completed the detailed design phase of the fixed price wind farm installation to external clients and throughout the Group.
vessel projects, two for Fred.
Olsen Windcarrier and one for Seajacks 3 Ltd Seajacks, the Company made International Inspection Services a provision amounting in aggregate to Ltd. Inspec USD 14.3m based on a detailed cost Inspec is predominantly engaged in to complete exercise.
The prototype the supply of inspection personnel nature of these vessels and the and equipment for heat treatment and resulting evolution of the design and non-destructive testing services to the detailed engineering was identified as oil & gas, district cooling and other the primary cause of the increased  industries, costs.
This issue was restricted to including desalination and energy.
these projects and similar issues do Inspec also provides mechanical and not affect other ongoing projects.
chemical analysis and calibration services.
Olsen Windcarrier operatives and its primary markets of Construction of the two GustoMSC operation are currently the UAE, Oman, NG-9000 design self-elevating and Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Kurdistan.
self-propelled offshore wind turbine installation vessels, ordered by Fred.
Engineering Services Olsen Windcarrier in February 2010 Lamprells Engineering Services group continued at the Jebel Ali facility provides a range of engineering throughout 2011.
The first vessel Brave solutions from concept engineering, Tern was successfully loaded out in front end engineering and design, February 2012 and will be delivered in design engineering to detailed and Q2 2012.
The load out weight of 12,200 construction engineering.
These tonnes is the heaviest vessel land move services are delivered by a team of ever to take place in the Middle East experienced multi-discipline engineers and one of a few worldwide.
The and designers using the latest second vessel Bold Tern will be engineering software and 3D modelling delivered in Q3 2012. techniques.
The group offers services including process, mechanical, Seajacks electrical & instrumentation, piping Following the successful delivery on and structural engineering.
time and on budget in 2009 of the wind farm installation vessels, Seajacks This service is provided by Lamprells Kraken and Seajacks Leviathan, core engineering team and Litwin PEL, Lamprell secured a USD 129.0m which is established in Abu Dhabi and contract award in June 2010 from was acquired as part of the MIS Seajacks 3 Ltd. for the delivery of acquisition.
Litwin offers E&C and Seajacks Zaratan, a GustoMSC multi-disciplinary engineering services NG-5500C design self-elevating and to the oil & gas industry and to the self-propelled offshore wind farm chemical & petrochemical sectors.
Construction In addition, Litwin provides technical continued throughout 2011 and the assistance to many of the national rig was successfully loaded out in operating companies in Abu Dhabi and January 2012, with delivery scheduled to a considerable number of private for Q2 2012. companies in the oil & gas industry throughout the Middle East.
24 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 Review of Operations continued Recent projects executed by the Engineering Services group include engineering services for ADCO Abu Dhabi Co. for Onshore Oil Operations and BOROUGE Abu Dhabi Polymers Company Limited.
Sunbelt Lamprells Sunbelt H S safety services 2 group provides complete safety solutions to its clients through a range of specialised products and services.
As an authorised distributor for a number of safety equipment manufacturers, Sunbelt ensures that it offers products that adhere to British, European and US standards.
Sunbelt also provides technical consultancy MIS Arabia Co. Ltd MISA accomplishment of work.
It is services and support specialised in the Lamprell is pleased to support its joint recognised that successful employee detection and handling of the highly venture facilities in Jubail Industrial City management helps employee toxic H in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
2 MISA focuses on the fabrication of process equipment and the provision We aim to provide a safe and In 2011, Sunbelt undertook contracts in a number of countries including the of operation & maintenance services.
supportive work environment to our employees, who are from diverse United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Kazakhstan.
2011 was a busy and successful year cultural backgrounds, and to do so in for MISA and we look forward to an environment that provides a Operations & Maintenance ongoing success in 2012. competitive compensation programme that is affordable to the Company.
We O&M Lamprells O&M business has a proven Human resources believe this continues to be a market The enlarged Group employs over differentiator and will strengthen our record of excellent performance and service, with a core workforce of over 14,000 people, including management, position as an employer of choice.
administration, labour supply personnel, 500 tradesmen and administrative personnel supplemented by field staff operational and field staff and the Lamprell continues to provide from the Lamprell Group.
integration of over 4,000 MIS personnel purpose-built accommodation and was a key objective for Lamprell in 2011 transportation for the labour force and O&M provides manpower, equipment and remains an area of focus in 2012. this enhances our ability to attract and and materials supply services to a retain our workforce, and dramatically diverse customer base at oil & gas Attracting, developing and retaining improves the quality and work life and petrochemical facilities and plants, talented staff is of paramount balance expectations of the employees.
drilling rigs, offshore facilities, marine importance to the success of Lamprell docks and marine vessels.
At Lamprell, we consider The HR department continues to work our employees to be an important closely with senior business leaders Contracts in 2011 included the asset and the continuous development on strategy execution, in particular provision of manpower and equipment and multi-skilling of our staff remains a designing HR systems and processes rental to customers including Dubai focus for our success.
The Human that address strategic business issues, Natural Gas Co. Dugas and Dubai Resources HR department has organisational and people capabilityPetroleum Est.
developed policies and best practices building, as well as longer-term resource for effective employee management and succession management planning.
enabling managers to capitalise on the strengths of the employees and their ability to contribute to the OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 Lamprell plc Annual Report 2011 and multiple new build rigs and Operating facilities At Lamprell, we consider The structured capital investment structures in various stages of our employees to be an construction within the yard itself.
programme at all facilities continued throughout 2011.
The primary aims of important asset and the The facility will continue to focus on the this investment include higher levels of safety and productivity, as well as construction of new build jackup rigs, continuous development improving the working environment for wind farm installation vessels, liftboats and multi-skilling of our both operational and administrative and rig refurbishment projects.
facility is fully API-accredited and hosts staff remains a focus for a main administration building which our success.
The acquisition of MIS substantially accommodates over 700 administration increased yard space capacity, adding staff, a client office, several workshops 2 375,000m and warehouse space.
of yard capacity and 400 metres of quayside, with the enlarged 2 Christopher Hand Group now operating from 925,318m of yard space and 2.2km of quayside.
Chief Operating Officer The main facilities added by the acquisition are in Sharjah and Dubai.
2 The 174,000m Sharjah facility has been integrated with Lamprells existing Sharjah facility, and is equipped with extensive open and covered fabrication areas, support facilities and workshops.
The additional yard space provided by the acquisition is of material value to Lamprell as it would take a number of years and significant capital expenditure to develop such a facility 2 organically.
The 30,000m facility in Dubai Investment Park is currently used to service land drilling rig contracts.
Improvements to the Hamriyah facility continued during 2011 and, following over three years of construction and an investment of over USD 75m, the facility was officially inaugurated in October.
The event was attended by Lamprells customers, partners and dignitaries, including His Highness Sheikh Dr. Sultan bin Mohammed Al Qassimi, Supreme Council Member and Ruler of Sharjah and Mr. Steven Lamprell.
With an area covering 365,000m and a quayside of over 1.4km, the Hamriyah facility is one of the regions foremost facilities for the manufacture of oil & gas assets, with capacity to accommodate more than 10 jackup rigs simultaneously at the quayside
