Corporate governance report 43 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors Application of the principles in the Combined Code are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in expected time commitment required.
On appointment, their other Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in significant commitments were disclosed, including the time involved.
2008 and available on the website of the Financial Reporting Council www.
uk, the Combined Code as reported in the Statement Nominations Committee of Compliance on page 45.
Further explanation of how the principles The Nominations Committee consists of Sir Colin Terry Chairman, have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors Mr P Heiden appointed 3 June 2010, Mr D A Robins, Mr D M Williams remuneration policies and total packages, is contained in the and Mr T Twigger.
Mr P J Hill served on the Committee until his Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 52. resignation on 31 March 2010 and Sir Alan Cox served on the Committee until his resignation on 24 February 2011.
Board composition The Committee considers new appointments to the Board, but all The Board considers it has a good balance of executive and nondirectors are consulted and decisions on Board changes are taken by executive directors, is of an appropriate size and includes the skills and the Board as a whole.
During 2010, the Committee reviewed the experience required by the business.
As at the date of this report, the structure, size and composition of the Board and in the light of these Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, Sir Colin Terry, a Chief reviews, made recommendations in respect of the role and capabilities Executive, Mr T Twigger, two other executive directors and three required for the appointment of a new non-executive director.
Mr P J Hill resigned from the Board on 31 Heiden was appointed in June 2010 using the services of an external March 2010 and Mr P Heiden was appointed on 3 June 2010.
Mr Heiden, a Chartered Accountant, was end of the financial year, Sir Alan Cox resigned as a director on 24 appointed as a result of his wealth of experience of financial, February 2011.
The recruitment process for a replacement has begun engineering and manufacturing matters across a range of different using an external search consultancy, and the Board will appoint a new commercial markets.
non-executive director as soon as possible.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual During 2010, the senior independent non-executive director was Mr D A General Meeting AGM after their appointment and to re-election Robins.
By virtue of his being a director for over nine years, Mr D A thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
In compliance with Robins stepped down from his position as senior independent Combined Code requirements, Mr D A Robins will be subject to non-executive director and has been replaced by Mr D M Williams with re-election in 2011 as he has been appointed as a director for over nine effect from 24 February 2011.
The senior independent non-executive years.
The Board has approved written terms of reference for the director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which Committee which are available on the Companys website.
contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Information and professional development The independent non-executive directors are considered by the Board The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge its to be Mr P Heiden and Mr D M Williams.
Mr D A Robins is no longer duties.
judged to be independent under the Combined Code by virtue of his having recently completed nine years as a member of the Board.
New directors receive an appropriate induction to the business.
Major However, the Board considers that his extensive business experience shareholders have the opportunity to meet new non-executive continues to make him a valuable member.
directors should they wish to do so.
Biographical and other relevant information on directors submitted for Directors are encouraged to update their skills regularly.
Their re-election is provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
knowledge and familiarity with the Group is facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the business and visits to the Groups The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there operating facilities.
Resources are available to directors for developing is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
agreed in writing by the Board.
Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on appointment as Chairman on 1 July 2004.
The Board allows all directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Committees are provided with sufficient The Board of Directors retains full and effective control of the Group resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the and is collectively responsible for the Groups success through its advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to leadership.
It sets the strategy, ensures appropriate resources are the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and in place and reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is that there is a good information flow within the Board.
The appointment responsible for setting the Groups values and standards and for and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a ensuring its obligations to shareholders, employees and others are met.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance for directors The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring and officers.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all directors and the Chairman must be satisfied that effective The Board, its committees and proceedings communication, principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance The Board met eight times during the year, and these meetings were Director, is undertaken with the shareholders.
The Chairman attended by all directors, except that Mr D M Williams was excused facilitates the contribution of non-executive directors and oversees from one meeting and from one meeting of the Remuneration the relationship between them and the executive directors.
The Committee and one meeting of the Nominations Committee.
Mr D A non-executive directors play a full part by constructively challenging Robins was excused from two meetings.
The Board regularly receives and contributing to the development of strategy.
reports from the Chief Executive on the Groups activities, from the The performance of management, the integrity of financial information Group Finance Director on financial performance and treasury matters and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk management and from the Group Corporate Affairs Director on legal and compliance systems are monitored.
The non-executive directors are responsible issues.
The Chairman talks with and holds informal meetings with the for determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive other non-executive directors without the executives present.
directors and have an important role in appointing new directors.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 44 Corporate governance report continued set out in the Meggitt Finance Policies and Procedures Manual.
These The Board, its committees and proceedings continued polices are reviewed regularly by management and compliance is Strategic issues and other matters including capital structure, monitored by management and internal audit.
financial reporting and controls are considered in line with a schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board.
If a decision is not Internal control reserved for the Board, then authority lies, in accordance with an The Group maintains a sound system of internal control to safeguard authorisation policy, with one of the Finance Committee of the Board, shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
The system is the Chief Executive, an executive director, presidents, site directors designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives general managers as appropriate.
During the year, no unresolved and can only provide reasonable assurance against material concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
The Board confirms full implementation of the Committee membership and attendance during 2010 was as follows: Financial Reporting Councils updated Turnbull guidance on Internal Control 2005.
Meetings The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control during Meetings year attended via the following procedures: Audit Regular reports at Board meetings on the state of the business from Mr D M Williams Chairman 3 3 the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and on legal and Mr P J Hill 1 1 compliance activities from the Group Corporate Affairs Director: Mr D A Robins 3 3 R egular reviews by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Mr P Heiden 2 2 Groups internal controls and of the reports from the external auditors and internal audit.
Internal audit visits to operating units are carried Remuneration out using a risk model which is approved by the Audit Committee: Mr D A Robins Chairman 5 5 The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee reviews these areas of Mr P J Hill 2 2 compliance quarterly: Mr D M Williams 5 4 A review of the Groups key risks and the general risks environment Mr P Heiden 3 3 is presented annually to the Board: Nominations Every month, each business submits detailed operating and financial Sir Colin Terry Chairman 2 2 reports covering all aspects of their performance.
Issues are Sir Alan Cox 2 2 communicated to the Management Board and the Board: Mr P J Hill 1 1 Presidents or site directors general managers as appropriate Mr P Heiden 1 1 provide annual written confirmation that the business for which they Mr D A Robins 2 2 are responsible has complied with Group policies: and Mr D M Williams 2 1 The Board receives an annual report on its insurance coverage and Mr T Twigger 1 1 its uninsured risks.
This is the number of meetings directors were eligible to attend.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant In addition to the meeting of the nominations committee, the risks faced by the Group is as follows: committee also recommended by written resolution that the Board Following risk workshops at business, division and Group level, the of Directors appoint Mr P Heiden as a director of the Company Board reviews the lists of key risks and mitigation plans which have been identified.
These risks are regularly reviewed by the Performance evaluation businesses, divisional management and, by exception, the In January 2011, the Board conducted a self-evaluation.
The Chairman Management Board: led a review and discussion to consider the Boards performance A regular review of the performance of each business is undertaken against some high level objectives and its own terms of reference by the executive directors and senior Group management: which it agreed to update.
A revised form of terms of reference was The Meggitt Finance Policies and Procedures Manual establishes approved by the Board at its meeting in February 2011.
The Board was appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover certain satisfied with its effectiveness.
The Audit, Remuneration and items of expenditure, financial commitments and other matters to Nominations Committees have considered their own performance ensure overall financial control is maintained throughout the Group.
The performance of individual directors has been The Meggitt Finance Policies and Procedures Manual is reviewed considered by the Chairman and Chief Executive in discussion with and updated regularly: other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have There is a comprehensive insurance programme: considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the There are programmes for business continuity, health and safety, views of the executive directors.
environment, trade compliance and ethics: and There is an ongoing programme of assurance activities including Financial reporting internal and external audit, external tax compliance reviews, environmental and health and safety audits, property risk reviews The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors and export law compliance reviews.
responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and a statement by the auditors concerning their responsibilities.
The directors also The Board confirms that this process was in place for the year under report that the business is a going concern.
review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Company has in place internal control and risk management The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 109% the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
2009: 119% of underlying operating profit in 2010.
Consolidated Group financial information is derived from the underlying financial systems of the business units.
Business unit financial processes are integrated into these financial systems and are monitored and managed through regular monthly reporting.
The finance policies and procedures followed in business unit reporting are MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 45 the AGM on substantially separate issues and there is a resolution Audit Committee and auditors relating to the financial statements.
The Notice of AGM and related The Audit Committee the Committee, appointed by the Board, papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before currently has two independent members, although it had three the meeting.
independent members throughout the year.
The Chairman of the The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee is Mr D M Williams.
The Board has approved written terms Committees are available at the AGM to respond to questions.
It is of reference for the Committee which were updated in January 2009 usual for all other directors to attend.
and are available on the Companys website.
The Board is satisfied that the Committees members have recent and relevant financial Share capital experience.
This report includes the information required by the Disclosure and During 2010 the Committee met three times.
The external auditors Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys attended these meetings to discuss the scope and the final results of corporate governance statement, with the exception of the information the 2009 audit in detail which included the main risks facing the required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is located in the Directors Report on Group, the strategy for the 2010 audit and the hard close results of page 40. the 2010 audit.
During the year, the Committee monitored the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewed the Groups internal Compliance with the Combined Code controls and the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committee also reviewed formal announcements relating to the As an English incorporated company with a premium listing on the Groups financial performance and any significant financial reporting London Stock Exchange, the Company is, for the year under review, statements contained in those announcements.
subject to the Combined Code.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the Company has complied with Section The Committee has primary responsibility for recommending the 1 of the Combined Code, with the following exceptions: appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Company places great importance on the independence of its auditors i A.
3.2 At least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, did not and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
The comprise independent non-executive directors.
Whilst Sir Alan Cox Committee agrees the fees paid to external auditors for their services was no longer regarded as independent owing to his appointment as auditors and is required to approve any fees to the external auditors as a non-executive director for more than nine years, the Board for non-audit services in excess of 0.1 million.
The Groups policies on considered that his extensive experience in industry and other professional accounting services are as follows: organisations made him a valuable member of the Board.
Sir Alan Cox resigned on 24 February 2011: and audit related services: the external auditors would be invited to undertake those services which they are required to, and most ii A.
4.1 A majority of members of the Nominations Committee should suited to, perform: be independent non-executive directors and this was not the case taxation: the Groups policy is not to employ its external auditors for during 2010.
Sir Alan Cox was no longer regarded as independent taxation work.
The Groups principal tax advisor is Deloitte LLP: and owing to his appointment as a non-executive director for more than consulting: the Groups policy is not to employ its external auditors nine years.
As a result, the Committee was made up of six for general consulting work where this could impair their members, of whom three were independent non-executive independence or objectivity.
The Board considered that Sir Alan Coxs extensive experience in industry and other organisations made him a valuable The Group Ethics Line enables employees to raise any concerns about member of the Committee.
Sir Alan Cox resigned on 24 February possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
This allows for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
In June 2010, the Financial Reporting Council published the UK Corporate Governance Code the revised Code which supersedes the Dialogue with institutional shareholders Combined Code and is applicable for companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The Board has reviewed The Company values its dialogue with institutional and private the provisions of the revised Code and confirms that it intends to investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional comply with the revised Code during the year ended 31 December 2011 investors and analysts about strategy, performance and policy is and when such compliance is not practical, to make the appropriate promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief Executive and Group disclosures.
The views of shareholders are reported to the Board by the Chief Going concern Executive.
The Chairman and other non-executive directors are After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the available to attend meetings with shareholders.
Directors time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable understanding of major shareholders views are enhanced by reports expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources from the Companys brokers and attendance at analysts briefings.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
This statement of going concern The Annual General Meeting also constitutes part of the Business Review on pages 4 to 37.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
Proxy By order of the Board appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote for or against resolutions or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, against and withheld are counted by the Companys Registrars and the level of voting for, against and withheld on each resolution is made available after the meeting M L Young and on the Companys website.
The proxy form and the announcement Company Secretary of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in 28 February 2011 law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Separate resolutions are proposed at MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
