AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 38 Board of directors Sir Colin Terry KBE CB FREng DL Non-Executive Chairman Sir Colin, a Chartered Engineer, was appointed to the Board in February 2003, becoming non-executive Chairman on 1 July 2004.
He spent 37 years in the Royal Air Force, where he reached the rank of Air Marshal.
Since retiring, he has held the positions of Group Managing Director of Inflite Engineering Services, Chairman of the Engineering Council UK, President of the Royal Aeronautical Society and the Council of European Aerospace Societies.
He is President of the Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families Association in Buckinghamshire where he is also a Deputy Lieutenant.
Sir Colin has recently been appointed to the UK Military Aviation Authority Safety Advisory Committee and as a member of the Advisory Board of Horton International.
Terry Twigger Chief Executive Terry joined Meggitt in 1993 and was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in 1995, becoming Chief Executive in January 2001.
Before joining Meggitt, he spent 15 years at Lucas Aerospace.
On 1 June 2009, Terry was appointed as a nonexecutive director and as the Chairman of the audit committee of Filtrona plc, an international speciality plastic and fibre products supplier.
Philip Green Group Corporate Affairs Director Philip joined Meggitt in 1994 as Group Company Secretary and was appointed to the Board in January 2001, with responsibility for legal and compliance matters.
He relinquished the role of Company Secretary during 2006.
Previously, Philip spent 14 years at British Aerospace.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Paul Heiden Non-Executive Director Paul, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed to the Board in June 2010.
He was Chief Executive of FKI Plc from 2003 to 2008, having previously held a number of senior positions, including Director, Industrial Business and Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc and senior financial positions with Peat Marwick, Mitchell and Co, Hanson Plc and Mercury Communications.
Paul is also Chairman of Talaris Topco Limited and a non-executive director and Chairman of the audit committee of both UU Plc and the London Stock Exchange Group plc.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 39 Stephen Young Group Finance Director Stephen, a Chartered Management Accountant, was appointed to the Board in January 2004.
He has held a number of senior financial positions including, most recently, Group Finance Director of Thistle Hotels plc.
Stephen also held the position of Group Finance Director of the Automobile Association and Group Financial Controller of Thorn EMI plc.
On 2 August 2010, Stephen was appointed as a non-executive director of Derwent London plc and serves as a member of the audit, remuneration and nominations committees.
David Williams Non-Executive Director David, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed to the Board on 13 December 2006, and became Senior Independent Director in February 2011.
He has held a number of senior financial positions and in 1991 joined distribution and outsourcing group Bunzl plc as Finance Director where he worked until retirement in January 2006.
He is currently the Joint Chairman of Mondi plc and Mondi Limited and is a non-executive director of Tullow Oil plc and DP World Limited, chairing the audit committee at both.
David Robins Non-Executive Director David was appointed to the Board in January 2002.
He was, until December 2000, Chairman and Chief Executive of ING Barings, before which he spent 18 years at Phillips & Drew and UBS, becoming Executive Vice President and Regional Head of UBS Europe.
He is Chairman of Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust PLC and Oriel Securities Ltd, a director of a venture capitalbacked company and chairman of two charities.
On 1 February 2011 David was appointed as a non-executive director of Fidelity Japanese Values PLC.
Membership of committees A udit: David Williams Chairman, Paul Heiden, David Robins Nominations: Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Terry Twigger, Paul Heiden, David Williams, David Robins Remuneration: David Robins Chairman, Paul Heiden, David Williams Ethics and trade compliance: Sir Colin Terry Chairman, Terry Twigger, Philip Green, Stephen Young MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
