Corporate Governance report Statement of compliance In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, The Company supports the principles contained in the 2008 consideration has been given to the independence of all the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the non-executive Directors and the Board considers all the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
non-executive Directors to be independent.
The non-executive Directors are not entitled to any bonus or shares under the 2009 The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for Incentive Share Scheme.
Performance of the Board and each good governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 December Committee is evaluated annually.
The Chairman has held 2010, the Company has complied with the provisions of Section meetings with the Directors, including the senior independent 1 of the Combined Code and with the requirements of the non-executive Director, Mr Miles Templeman, to discuss the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR on audit committees performance of individual executive Directors and the Board as and corporate governance statements.
It was considered that the individual Directors and the describe how the Company has applied the principles identified Board as a whole were operating effectively.
Directors in the Combined Code and DTR directives.
determine whether there are any training requirements, by completing an evaluation questionnaire during the year that The Company is currently reviewing the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to financial years from 1 January is designed to identify any failures in the performance of the Board and each of its Committees.
The findings of the 2010 2011 in light of amendments made to it by the Financial Reporting Council during 2010, which will apply to financial evaluations were reviewed by the Company Secretary and feedback was provided to the Board.
years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
All Directors receive a formal and tailored induction shortly after The Board their appointment.
Directors are advised that they have access Members: Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Garry David Roper, Chief Executive Barnes, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures Simon Peckham, Chief Operating Officer are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Geoffrey Martin, Group Finance Director complied with.
The Board may seek independent legal and Miles Templeman, Senior non-executive Director financial advice in the furtherance of their duties, at the Perry Crosthwaite, Non-executive Director Companys expense.
John Grant, Non-executive Director A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each All of the above Directors served throughout the year.
Director in advance of each scheduled Board or standing Committee meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further Main responsibilities: clarification and information on any matter from any other effectively and properly manage and control the Company Director or employee of the Group whenever necessary.
via a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision: Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the determine and review Company strategy and policy: recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants, advisors and senior management.
consider acquisitions, disposals and asset requests for major capital expenditure: Director terms and conditions review trading performance: The terms and conditions of the executive Directors service ensure that adequate funding and personnel are in place: contracts and the non-executive Directors appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
maintain sound internal control systems: and The non-executive Directors appointment letters are also report to shareholders and give consideration to all other available on the Companys website: www.
Rotation of Directors Board responsibilities are undertaken in conjunction with senior In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day one third or the number nearest to but not less than one third conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the of Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for Board on items of significance and progress against objectives.
re-election at each Annual General Meeting AGM of the The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an Company.
It is the policy of the Board that non-executive ad-hoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, There were four scheduled Board meetings held during the following which their appointment will be reviewed.
year and the attendance of each of the Directors is shown on page 38.
The Directors proposed for re-election at the AGM on 12 May 2011 are Mr Simon Peckham, Mr Perry Crosthwaite Board balance, independence and performance and Mr Geoffrey Martin.
The Board and Nomination Committee The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business have carefully considered the time commitments required and experience in areas complementary to the activities of the the contribution made by each Director.
Biographies of the Directors are shown on pages Committee and the Board are of the belief that the performance 26 to 27.
These biographies identify any other appointments of each executive and non-executive Director continues to be held by the Directors.
The only executive Director to hold effective and that each Director demonstrates commitment non-executive Director appointments elsewhere is to his role.
Mr Christopher Miller, who is a non-executive Director of TMO Renewables Limited and is allowed to retain the remuneration he receives from that appointment.
36 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The Board Christopher Miller Executive Chairman David Roper Chief Executive Simon Peckham Chief Operating Officer Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director Miles Templeman Senior non-executive Director Perry Crosthwaite Non-executive Director John Grant Non-executive Director Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Miles Templeman Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Miles Templeman Perry Crosthwaite John Grant John Grant John Grant Christopher Miller Chairman and Chief Executive Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant financial The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company experience from senior executive and non-executive positions are, and will remain, separate and distinct from one another in as described in their biographies on pages 26 and 27. accordance with best practice and Board policy.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the The Chairman alone is responsible for the leadership of Head of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the the Board and for ensuring effective communication with external and internal auditors to attend meetings as appropriate shareholders together with the other executive Directors.
to the business being considered.
The Audit Committee has the The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where and decisions involving the day-to-day management of the this is considered appropriate.
In addition, the Audit Committee Company.
These respective responsibilities are set out in writing meets at least once per year with both the external and internal and have been approved by the Board, who consider that the auditors, without management present.
respective roles and responsibilities are clearly understood The Audit Committee is expected to meet not less than three by both individuals and by the Board as a whole.
times a year and the Audit Committee met three times during 2010.
The attendance of its members, along with the Group Committees of the Board Finance Director, is shown in the table on page 38.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board has three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration Group auditor and Nomination Committees.
Each of these includes the The Groups external auditor is recommended for rethree independent non-executive Directors.
The duties of the appointment by the Audit Committee who also assess the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
These are appropriateness of the scope of audit work performed and available from the Company Secretary and on the Companys provides recommendations in respect of their remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Secretary to each of the Committees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the Members: Miles Templeman, Chairman external auditor for the supply of non-audit services and the Perry Crosthwaite Committee is aware of the audit and non-audit services John Grant including taxation and transaction advice which have been provided by Deloitte LLP during 2010.
A significant proportion Main responsibilities: of the non-audit services related to non-recurring work, some of review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements which was in connection with the provision of tax advisory and of the Group, including its half yearly accounts, the annual transaction related services.
The provision of non-audit services report, interim management and preliminary statements and was considered to be appropriate, given the external auditors any other formal announcements relating to the financial depth of knowledge of the affairs and financial practices of the performance of the Group: Group.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial non-audit work, Deloitte LLP has retained objectivity and reporting, internal controls, risk management systems and independence during the year.
The Audit Committee will compliance controls: continue to monitor its policy in this regard and accepts that non-audit work should be controlled to ensure that it does not focus and challenge the consistency of accounting policies, methods used to account for significant or unusual compromise the independence of the auditor.
transactions and compliance with accounting standards: Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003.
At each year end Deloitte review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise LLP submits a letter setting out how it believes its independence concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial and objectivity have been maintained and they are required to reporting, in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary policy: and audits every five years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed as part of that rotation process in 2010.
There are no contractual develop, implement and monitor the Groups policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and obligations that restrict the Groups capacity to recommend a particular firm for appointment as auditor.
Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 37 Corporate Governance report continued Internal audit programme Main responsibilities: Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate keep the size, structure and composition of the Board under for an internal audit programme to be used within the business.
regular review and recommend to the Board any adjustments BM Howarth, an external firm provides internal audit services as may be necessary from time to time: to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every give full consideration to succession planning to ensure an business unit will have an internal audit at least once every three optimum balance of executive and non-executive Directors years, with the largest sites reviewed at least once every two in terms of skills and experience: years.
The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the keep under review the leadership needs of the business: and effectiveness of internal control systems, compliance with the keep up-to-date and fully informed about strategic issues and Groups Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the commercial changes affecting the Company and the market businesses Balance Sheets.
A report of key findings and in which it operates.
recommendations is presented to the Group Finance Director, Head of Financial Reporting and Group Operations Controller, The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less followed by a meeting to discuss key findings and resulting than twice a year and during 2010 the Nomination Committee action points.
The rotation programme allows divisional met twice.
The attendance of its members is shown in the managements actions and responses to be followed up table below.
The Nomination Committee uses external search consultants Review of the internal audit process and scope of work covered as appropriate.
by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Audit Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and resources are Attendance at meetings appropriate for the nature of the businesses under review.
The table below shows the attendance of each of the Directors A report of significant findings is presented by the internal at the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board and its auditor to the Committee at each meeting and implementation standing Committees held during the year.
The quorum of recommendations by the Board is followed up at the necessary for the transaction of business by the Board and subsequent Committee meeting.
each of its standing Committees is two.
Briefing papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of Remuneration Committee each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction Members: Perry Crosthwaite, Chairman with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from Miles Templeman external advisors and senior management as appropriate.
John Grant The representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are duly Main responsibilities: considered by those Directors in attendance.
consider and make recommendations to the Board of the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Company on the framework for the remuneration of the 1 Companys executive Directors, the Company Secretary Number of meetings 4 3 2 2 and other senior employees: Christopher Miller 4 n a n a 2 ensure that the remuneration of the executive Directors and David Roper 4 n a n a n a senior employees are provided with appropriate incentives to Simon Peckham 4 n a n a n a encourage enhanced performance and that they are rewarded 2 Geoffrey Martin 4 3 n a n a for their individual contributions to the success of the Company: Miles Templeman 4 3 2 2 approve the structure of, and determine targets for, any Perry Crosthwaite 3 2 1 1 performance related pay schemes operated by the Company John Grant 4 3 2 2 including long term incentive plans : and 1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time to time which are attended by a quorum annually review remuneration trends across the Group of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
2 Mr Martin attends by invitation.
and obtain reliable and up to date information about the remuneration of Directors and senior employees in Internal control and risk management other companies.
Objectives and policy The objective of the Directors and senior management is to In developing its recommendations, the Committee has given safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets due consideration to Schedule 8 of Part 15 of the Companies of the Group.
Achievement of this objective requires the Act 2006. development of policies and appropriate internal control The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less than frameworks to ensure the Groups resources are managed twice a year and during 2010 the Remuneration Committee met properly and any key risks are identified and mitigated twice.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on where possible.
The report to shareholders on how Directors are The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups overall system remunerated, together with details of individual Directors of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the remuneration is shown in the Remuneration report on pages role of management is to implement the policies set by the Board 40 to 43. in respect of risk management and controls.
The Directors Nomination Committee recognise that the systems and processes established by the Members: Miles Templeman, Chairman Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Perry Crosthwaite failure to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute John Grant assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Christopher Miller 38 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2010 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, guidance for Directors set out in the revised version of the it has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
In accordance with this it considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms guidance, there is an ongoing process, regularly reviewed by that it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the the Directors, for identifying, evaluating, managing and internal control systems that relate to financial reporting.
mitigating where possible the significant risks faced by the Whistleblowing and bribery and corruption policies Group.
This process for reviewing the Groups internal controls The Group is currently in the process of revising its bribery and is consistent with prior years and has been in place throughout corruption policy, in light of the Bribery Act 2010 2010 Act.
the 2010 financial year and up to the date of approval of the As part of this process, a Group risk assessment is currently Annual Report.
being carried out to ensure the Company has good systems in place to prevent bribery taking place in any areas of its business Managing and controlling risk and to ensure full compliance with the 2010 Act.
An ongoing The Group has policies which address a number of key audit process, together with suitable induction and training business risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety initiatives are currently being finalised for roll out within each and environmental risks.
The Groups financial risk management of the business units.
objectives and policies are described in the Finance Directors review on pages 19 to 25.
Other key risks which could adversely The Groups bribery and corruption policy requires all affect the Group are described in the Chief Executives review employees to act with honesty, integrity and transparency and on pages 6 and 7: Business reviews on pages 8 to 18: and to conduct themselves in a lawful, ethical and professional Directors report on pages 28 to 35.
These policies and further manner.
All employees, agents, consultants, contractors and detailed business unit specific policies are made available to agency workers of Melrose PLC, its subsidiaries and associated employees through manuals and also via specific employee companies in which it has a majority interest, are forbidden from briefings and other communications, as appropriate.
offering or soliciting any bribe, or similar inducement: there is also an obligation to report any offer of a bribe or unorthodox The Group operates on a decentralised basis and the Board payment.
The Company also encourages application of its has established an organisational structure with clear reporting policy by joint venture partners and suppliers.
procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Divisional senior management, plant managers and financial Responsibility for anti-corruption policies and procedures rests controllers have been delegated responsibility by the Board for with the Board of Directors.
They are tasked with ensuring that the establishment and implementation of detailed control adequate internal financial controls and record keeping is in systems as appropriate for their business.
place within the Group in order to minimise the risk of bribery and corruption.
An established programme of regular review is in place at the businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is The Group also has a whistleblowing policy which sits alongside encouraged by the Board through regular meetings with senior the bribery and corruption policy.
This is designed to enable management, review of operating performance and progress individuals to make protected disclosures to their divisional against business plans.
The ongoing process of review provides human resources manager, Group Company Secretary or assurance that the control environment is operating as intended.
Senior non-executive Director if they have concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the malpractices within their business.
internal control processes implemented across the Group through review of the key findings presented by the external and internal Communications with shareholders auditors and discussions with senior management on an ad-hoc The Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding basis.
The Board is responsible for considering the Audit of objectives with its institutional shareholders, via the Committees recommendations in respect of internal controls and executive Directors, through regular meetings and presentations risk management and ensuring implementation by management following announcements of its annual and interim results.
of those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
Miles Templeman, Senior non-executive Director, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved Internal financial controls matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The views of key The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the analysts and major shareholders are fed back to the Board effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal financial directly by individual Directors and via the Companys brokers, controls, including strategic business planning and regular ensuring all members of the Board develop an understanding monitoring and reporting of financial performance.
A detailed of the views of major shareholders.
Corporate information is annual budget is prepared by senior management and available on the Companys website, www.
thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the forecast process and regular Business review meetings are AGM.
The number of proxy votes cast for and against each of the held involving senior management to assess performance.
resolutions proposed is announced at the AGM and a summary The results of these reviews are in turn reported to and willbe provided shortly after the AGM, on the Companys website.
discussed by the Board at each meeting.
By order of the Board As discussed in the Audit Committee section on pages 37 and 38 of this report, BM Howarth is the Groups internal auditor.
Nineteen business units have been visited during the year and the Directors are pleased to report that there were no material deficiencies and that the majority of recommendations presented in the internal auditor reports have now been, Garry Barnes or are in the process of being implemented.
A further twenty Secretary seven business units are planned for review during 2011.
9 March 2011 Annual Report 2010 Melrose PLC 39
