CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the date of this report, the principal governance rules applying principles of corporate governance as recommended in Section to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are 1 of the Code for the year ended 31 December 2010. contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Where applicable, the Company has already adopted principles the Code, as adopted by the Financial Reporting Council from the Governance Code.
The Directors also seek to comply with the FRC in June 2008.
In May 2010, the FRC published a new guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative code, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance bodies where it is practical to do so.
Code, which will replace the Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The FRC has stated that changes have Compliance with the Code been made to help company boards to become more effective The Directors consider that the Company has complied with all and more accountable to shareholders.
the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high standards the year ended 31 December 2010. of corporate governance and has applied the main and supporting 42 Michael Page International CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In July 2010, Sir Adrian Montague was appointed Chairman of DIRECTORS listed private equity rm 3i.
The Board and its operation Senior Independent Director The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body responsible The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders for corporate governance, establishing policies and objectives, and when they may have issues or concerns where contact through the management of the Groups resources.
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance The Board comprises currently the Chairman, who is deemed Director has either failed to resolve concerns, or contact is to be independent and has no operational responsibilities, deemed inappropriate.
three Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive The Senior Independent Director is Hubert Reid.
Collectively, they have a broad balance of skills and experience.
The composition of the Board complies with Code Re-election of Directors Provision A.
The Board annually reviews the composition of It has been Board policy that all Directors are subject to retirement the Board and considers that there is an appropriate balance of by rotation and re-election by the shareholders in accordance Executive and Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
with the Articles of Association, whereby one third of the Directors The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal retire by rotation each year.
Subject to the Board being satis ed schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates speci c with the effectiveness, independence and commitment of a responsibilities to Committees.
During the meetings, the Board Non-Executive Director, there is no fide ned limit regarding the formally considers how and to whom matters covered at each number of terms a Director may serve.
All Directors are subject to meeting should be communicated and actioned beyond the election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting Board.
Decisions concerning matters of a more routine nature following their appointment.
are dealt with by management below Board level.
The structure However, in accordance with the new Governance Code, the of the Group facilitates the day-to-day running of the business Directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves for and enables ef cient and effective communication of issues to annual re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming the Board when required.
The Chairman and Non-Executive AGM to be held on 20 May 2011, Reg Sindall will offer himself Directors also met during the year without the Executive Directors for election, with the remaining Directors offering themselves for being present.
As a result of their annual performance evaluation, Each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference, the Board considers that their individual performances continue which were reviewed in 2010. to be effective, with each Director demonstrating commitment to their role.
The Board is therefore pleased to support their The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Committees are available on request and can be found on the Groups website.
Their composition and the manner It is also the Boards view that the comparatively long tenure in which they discharge their responsibilities are described in of some of the Directors has been key to the Boards in-depth this report.
understanding of the Group and its operation.
Sir Adrian Montague has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Executive Board, a Committee of the Board, meets formally The Board does not believe that he has served for a period that at least four times a year, and is responsible for assisting the could materially interfere with his ability to act in the best interests Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including of the Group.
The Board also believes that he has retained development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, independence of character and judgement and has not formed policies, procedures and budgets.
associations with management or others that might compromise These activities are performed at a regional level by four Regional his ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best Boards, Committees of the Board, for the UK, EMEA, Asia Paci c interests of the Group.
Each Regional Board meets at least four times a year.
Company Secretary All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Chairman Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board The Chairman, Sir Adrian Montague, is responsible for the procedures and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
leadership and ef cient operation of the Board, setting its agenda There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent and ensuring all Directors provide an effective contribution.
The professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring the provision of accurate and timely information to the Board and effective communications Board appointments with shareholders.
The Board follows formal and transparent procedures when It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman and Chief appointing directors.
All candidates are interviewed by the Executive are separate.
Michael Page International 43 Chairman and the Chief Executive, and, all candidates in the Induction and training programme final shortlist are interviewed by the Nomination Committee.
On appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with the Evaluations of all candidates are discussed with all members Company Secretary the extent of training required and a tailored of the Nomination Committee and recommendations are induction programme to cover their individual requirements is then subsequently made to the Board.
Elements of the programme typically consist of meeting senior management, site visits and attending internal conferences.
Nomination Committee In addition, information is provided on the Companys services, The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Group structure, Board arrangements, financial information, major Directors and is chaired by Sir Adrian Montague.
It is responsible competitors and major risks.
After an initial induction phase, for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments, updates are provided on a periodic basis.
as well as making recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally, the balance between Executive and NonPerformance evaluation Executive Directors appointed to the Board and reviewing any The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring effectiveness con icts of interest.
The terms of reference of the Nomination and evaluating its performance, together with that of its Directors Committee can be found on our website.
and Committees, conducted an internal review comprising During the year, the Committee recommended the appointment a questionnaire concerning all aspects of procedure and of a Non-Executive Director.
An external search rm was engaged effectiveness.
and a detailed role pro le was agreed by the Committee before Following completion of the questionnaires, the Chairman met a shortlist of suitable candidates was prepared to go forward to with the individual Directors to discuss their views and to give an interview process.
This resulted in the recommendation of feedback on their performance.
The results of the evaluation were the appointment of Reg Sindall.
Terms and conditions for Reg reported to the Board and where areas of improvement have Sindall and the other Non-Executive Directors are available for been identi ed, actions have been agreed upon and training will inspection at the Companys registered of ce.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only Board Total meetings 12 Meetings attended Executive Steve Ingham 12 Charles-Henri Dumon 12 Stephen Puckett 12 Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total meetings 12 9 9 4 Meetings attended Non-Executive Sir Adrian Montague CBE 12 9 9 4 Ruby McGregor-Smith 12 9 94 Dr Tim Miller 9 9 7 2 Hubert Reid 12 9 9 4 Reg Sindall appointed 14 December 2010 1 0 1 0 44 Michael Page International CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Hubert Reid, as the Senior Independent Director, led a meeting of Sindall, who took over the Chairmanship from Dr Tim Miller.
the Non-Executive Directors to appraise the performance of the The Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Chairmans, Chairman.
The meeting took into account any comments made by Executive Directors and senior executives remuneration and the Executive Directors.
This evaluation is carried out annually.
terms of employment, makes recommendations upon this, Following the release of the Governance Code, an external Board along with the speci c level of remuneration to the Board, evaluation will now be carried out every three years.
and also approves the provision of policies for the incentivisation of senior employees, including share schemes.
Succession planning The Committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended by One of the basic premises behind the strategic development the Chief Executive, except when his own remuneration is under of the Michael Page business, is that growth is organic rather consideration.
The Remuneration Report includes information on than through acquisitions of companies or hiring senior people the Directors service contracts.
The terms of reference of the in non-support roles.
In order to achieve this organic growth, Remuneration Committee can be found on our website.
It is therefore one of the fundamental The Report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on principles and a major part of the philosophy of the Company pages 48 to 55 of the Annual Report.
that we train and develop our own people.
This approach creates opportunities for career progression and helps us attract and retain high calibre individuals.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession Audit Committee planning is inherently a key part of the business process.
We do not make promotions or move people within the business The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive unless there is a clear successor for the vacant position.
It is, Directors and is chaired by Ruby McGregor-Smith.
The Committee therefore, one of the key responsibilities of all levels of management, members have broad experience and knowledge of financial and not just the Board, to have a clear plan of development for reporting.
Their relevant quali cations and experience are shown their direct reports.
in their biographies on the Board of Directors pages 32 and 33.
The Board believes that Ruby McGregor-Smith and Hubert Reid Con icts of interest have recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Audit Committee, Dr Tim Miller and Reg Sindall both have The Company has implemented robust procedures, in line with wide experience in regulatory and risk issues.
the Companies Act 2006, requiring Directors to seek appropriate authorisation prior to entering into any outside business interests.
The Committee met nine times in 2010 to ful l its duties and included attendance by the external auditor where required.
The In all cases where a potential con ict is identi ed, it is Board policy Committee also met with the external auditors during the year that the Director in question is not involved in any discussion of without the presence of management.
the area or issue giving rise to the con ict.
In 2010, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as During the course of the year, the Board reviewed and authorised, set out in the terms of reference, which can be found on our in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, a small website, www.
Its principal tasks number of external directorships and other business interests held are to ensure the integrity of the Companys Financial Reporting by individual directors.
However, none were regarded as being of process, review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, such signi cance as to give rise to a con ict of interest.
internal audit and risk management function, review the scope of All Directors are aware of their continuing obligation to report the external audit, consider issues raised by the external auditor, any new interests or changes in existing interests that might and review the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are amount to a possible con ict of interest in order that these may be presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting considered by the Board and appropriate authorisations given.
policies and compliance, and areas of management judgement and estimates, as well as ensuring the independence of the Attendance at meetings external auditor and the provision of additional services to the The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and Company.
individual attendance by the members of the Committees only are shown in Fig.
Objectivity and independence of external auditor Deloitte is employed to perform work in addition to their statutory duties where it is felt that they are best placed to carry out the REMUNERATION engagement as a result of their being the Groups auditor.
All other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent NonExecutive Directors and, since 21 January 2011, is chaired by Reg Michael Page International 45 The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is It is also the Committees policy to consider whether there should safeguarded by: be an audit tender process and whether using auditors from one audit network continues to enhance the quality of the audit.
The a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that adequate Committee reviews the past service of the auditors who were policies and procedures exist within its rm to ensure the rm first appointed in 1997. and its staff are independent of the Group by reason of family, finance, employment, investment and business relationships The Committee has also considered the likelihood of a other than in the normal course of business : withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit auditors.
services by the auditor which governs the types of work: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit i. from which the external auditor is excluded: Committee reviewed: ii.
for which the exter final auditor can be engaged without the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors referral to the Audit Committee: and independence and objectivity: iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is r equired, which the external auditors ful lment of the agreed audit plan and includes all engagements over certain fee limits.
any variations from the plan: The following areas are considered to be unacceptable for the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their the external auditor to undertake: handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and selection, design or implementation of key financial the content of the external auditors reporting on internal systems: control.
maintaining or pr eparing the accounting books and Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended to records or the preparation of financial accounts or other the Board that Deloitte LLP is re-appointed.
key financial data: provision of outsourced financial systems: Internal control pr ovision of outsource operational management The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal control functions: are fide ned by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules recruitment of senior finance or other executives: that incorporate a Code of Practice known as the Combined Code, which requires that Directors review, at least annually, secondment of senior finance or other executives: the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
provision of internal audit services: This requirement stipulates that the review shall cover all material valuation services or fairness opinions: and controls including operational, compliance and risk management, any services speci cally prohibited to be provided by a as well as financial.
Internal Control Guidance for Directors on listed companys external auditors under UK regulations.
the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was published in September 1999, updated October 2005 and sets out best The following criteria also need to be met before the external practice on internal audit for UK listed companies and assists auditors are contracted to provide such services: them in applying Section C. 2 of the Combined Code.
the rm has the necessary skills and experience to The Board has assessed existing risk management and internal undertake the work: control processes during the year ended 31 December 2010 in ther e are no potential con icts that may arise as a result accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board believes it has of carrying out this activity: the procedures in place such that the Group has fully complied the exter final audit rm is subject to the companys for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and at the date normal tendering processes: and of this report.
in addition to the normal authorisation pr ocedures and The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal prior to inclusion in a tender, approval has to be given financial and operational controls, which are designed to meet by the Group Finance Director and, if the fee exceeds a the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group assets, certain level, the Audit Committee.
ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that the c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is proposed financial information used within the business and for publication that a former employee of the external auditor be employed is reliable.
by the Group in a senior management position: and Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with applicable not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit partners.
Key elements of the system of internal control are as follows: 46 Michael Page International CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group organisation.
The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, The internal audit function is an independent, dedicated focusing mainly on strategic issues, operational and financial Internal Audit team, comprising the Head of Internal Audit performance.
There is also a fide ned policy on matters and an Internal Auditor.
Businesses are visited on a riskbased reserved strictly for the Board.
The Managing Director of and rotational basis to assess the effectiveness of controls each operating division is accountable for establishing and in mitigating speci c risks.
In addition, risks are regularly monitoring internal controls within that division: reviewed and changes are made to the risk pro le where necessary.
All internal audit activities are reported to the annual business plan.
During the year, the Board monitored and The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit activities.
annual budget approved by the Board: The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code quarterly reforecasting.
and con rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the The Group prepares a full-year reforecast on a quarterly basis Group and that the processes have been in place for the year showing, by individual businesses disciplines, the results to under review and up to the date of approval of the annual date and a reforecast against budget for the remaining period report and accounts.
up to the end of the year: financial reporting.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Detailed monthly reports are produced showing comparisons of results against budget, forecast and the prior year, with Board contact with shareholders performance monitoring and explanations provided for Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Group reports to shareholders on main contact between the Board and shareholders is through the a quarterly basis: Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
two major investor roadshows each year in February March and There is an established Audit Committee whose activities are August September, in which numerous one-to-one meetings with previously described: shareholders take place.
The outcome of these meetings and the views of shareholders are relayed back to the Board by the corporate financial and operational controls.
brokers, at the end of each roadshow.
The Groups corporate Individual operations complete an annual controls self brokers also report monthly to the Board on broking activity assessment and certi cation statement.
Each operational during the month and any issues that may have been raised manager, in addition to the finance function for that operation, with them.
con rms the adequacy of their systems of internal control and Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting compliance with Group policies.
The statement also requires where they are able to discuss any concerns with the Nonthe reporting of any signi cant control issues, including Executive Directors.
suspected or reported fraud, that have emerged so that areas of Group concern can be identi ed and investigated When requested by shareholders, individual matters can as required: be discussed with the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The Group also has a website with an investor section risk management.
co. uk that contains Company Identi cation of major business risks is carried out at Group announcements and other shareholder information.
level in conjunction with operational management and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk: Annual Report public interest disclosure policy whistleblowing.
The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The audit committee has reviewed arrangements by which The Business Review provides an assessment of the Groups staff of the company may, in con dence, raise concerns about affairs and position.
The Annual Report and Interim Report are possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other sent to all shareholders on the Register.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the preparation follow-up action: and of the Annual Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities is shown on page 105.
A statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities is shown in the Independent Auditors Report on page 57.
