Management and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The board The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April 2010, the reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils board comprised five directors: Combined Code 2008 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code, which operates on a comply or explain basis, incorporates, among Kevin Loosemore Non-executive Chairman others, recommendations by the Higgs Review regarding the role of Nick Bray Chief Financial Of cer non-executive directors and the Smith Review, which refers to audit David Maloney Non-executive senior independent director committees.
Through their commitment to the highest standards of Paul Pester Non-executive independent director corporate governance, the board endorses and supports the essential Tom Skelton Non-executive independent director elements of the Combined Code and, apart from a limited exception as described below, believes the Group has fully complied with the Stephen Kelly resigned from the board as Chief Executive Of cer Combined Code during the year reported on.
Where it has not, an on 8 September 2009.
Nigel Clifford was appointed to the board as explanation has been provided.
Chief Executive Of cer on 1 May 2010.
Nick Bray resigned from the board as Chief Financial Of cer on 23 June 2010.
Karen Slatford was On 28 May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council published the new appointed as an independent non-executive director on 5 July 2010.
UK Corporate Governance Code, formerly known as the Combined Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code applies to reporting The role of the non-executive directors is to ensure that independent periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and consequently will judgment is brought to board deliberations and decisions.
apply to the Company with effect from 1 May 2011.
Although largely restating the Combined Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and introduces a number of structural changes and new requirements experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which aimed at improving the governance of listed companies.
One of the complement those of the executive directors.
more signi cant changes is the recommendation that all directors stand for re-election at each annual general meeting and this is The Chairman operates in a non-executive capacity and is considered discussed in more detail below.
by the board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the Compliance statement exercise of his independent judgment.
The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company will work towards compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the David Maloney, the non-executive senior independent director, Paul Combined Code.
Pester, Tom Skelton and Karen Slatford, each a non-executive director, are considered by the board to be independent.
Throughout the year reported on the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined In accordance with the Combined Code, all directors will be subject Code on corporate governance, except for the following: to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company after their appointment, and, thereafter, A.
4.1 nomination committee The Combined Code requires at least every three years.
David Maloney, Tom Skelton and Paul Pester that a majority of members of the nomination committee should be will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible independent non-executive directors.
During the year, the nomination will stand for re-election and Nigel Clifford and Karen Slatford will committee comprised the Chairman, David Maloney non-executive also retire at the forthcoming AGM and being eligible will stand senior independent director and Stephen Kelly executive director for election.
The non-executive directors are appointed for speci c until Mr Kellys resignation on 8 September 2009.
Full terms of their appointment are to be found in the executive director was appointed a member of the nomination remuneration report.
The Company is aware that the Chairman is not regarded as independent for purposes of the Combined Code.
The Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code, The Chairman operates in a non-executive capacity and is considered which applies to the Company from 1 May 2011, recommends that, by the board to be independent of management and free from any in the interests of greater accountability, all directors should be subject business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the to election by shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after exercise of his independent judgment.
their appointment and thereafter subject to re-election annually.
Consequently, the board recommends to shareholders at the The principles set out in the Combined Code cover four areas: forthcoming annual general meeting that a resolution to approve the board, directors remuneration, accountability and audit and changes to the Companys Articles of Association to require annual shareholder relations.
With the exception of directors remuneration elections for all directors be approved with effect from the AGM which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on in 2011. pages 36 to 43 the following section sets out how the board has applied these principles.
The Combined Code can be accessed at www.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 30 The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they believe The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board they require independent professional advice in the furtherance of meeting.
These typically cover: their duties and these procedures allow the directors to take such advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all the directors have Strategy and budgets: direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Business and financial performance: The Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Corporate activities: Chairman on governance matters.
It is the responsibility of the Human resources: and Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed and Investor relations.
all rules and regulations are complied with.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the induction and professional development and ensuring the smooth evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and ow of information between board members, between the board individual directors including the Chairman, as required by Combined and its committees and between non-executive directors and senior Code provision A6.1.
Following an independent review of the board management.
Any new director receives a comprehensive, formal and and committee performance in 2009, this years evaluation has been tailored induction into the Companys operations.
Appropriate training conducted in the form of online surveys completed by members of the is provided to new directors and is also available to other directors board with respect to the performance of the board and each of its as required.
committees, as well as individual director surveys.
These surveys were provided by Lintstock Limited, a corporate advisory rm that provides The terms of reference of the Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer objective and independent counsel to leading European companies.
have been agreed with the board and, in accordance with best The results of these surveys have been reviewed by the board and practice, their roles remain separate.
each committee and the resulting recommendations are being implemented, including the appointment of Karen Slatford, an As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has additional independent non-executive director, on 5 July 2010. agreed a list of items that are speci cally reserved for its consideration.
These include business strategy, nancing arrangements, material The Chairman holds meetings with non-executive directors without acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major the presence of executive directors.
capital expenditure projects, risk management, treasury policies and establishing and monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the Con icts of interest board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives, and Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of the monitors financial progress against budget.
Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place procedures to deal with con icts of interests, which have operated effectively.
The In the year to 30 April 2011, the board has scheduled meetings on a board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and changes regular basis approximately every one to two months, with additional to these commitments are reported to the board.
meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to review Board committees progress.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers in advance In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of meetings.
In addition, the executive directors from time to time ensure reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available The board makes full use of appropriate technology as a means of from the Company Secretary or can be viewed on the Companys updating and informing all its members.
The Company is aware that the Chairman is not regarded as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
In the year under review, the board met on 23 occasions, nine such meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with a further Audit committee 14 additional meetings of the board called at short notice to consider The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors board issues.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board considers has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of the members are Tom Skelton, Paul Pester and Karen Slatford.
Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business The audit committee has met six times during the financial year and activities is the responsibility of task teams, comprising the executive will meet at least four times during the coming financial year and, directors together with executives responsible for the relevant tasks additionally as appropriate.
A schedule of meetings for the coming who meet regularly.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Management and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the accounts and interim reports prior to submission for approval to Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys the full board.
The committee also monitors the Groups accounting overall risk management system: policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting procedures.
The audit committee provides a forum through which To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring the Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
The the independence and objectivity of the auditor and considering auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular audit fees and fees for non-audit work: and basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee members in the absence of executive management.
The audit To consider and make recommendations to the board in relation to committee oversees the relationship with the auditor, including the the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys independence and objectivity of the auditor taking into account external auditor.
UK professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the audit rm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees During the year, the committees business included consideration and fees for other non-audit work.
In addition, the audit committee of the following: has developed a policy designed to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence is not compromised by it undertaking inappropriate The effectiveness of internal control procedures: non-audit work.
All signi cant non-audit work commissioned from the external auditor requires audit committee approval.
An outsourced The annual financial statements, full year results announcement, internal audit function continues to be provided by KPMG.
The half year results and other stock exchange announcements: Groups Chief Financial Of cer provides oversight and co-ordination of internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, internal audit The annual review of the performance and effectiveness of both has a direct reporting line to the audit committee and its chairman.
the internal and external auditors: The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and the Responses to a questionnaire on the audit committees performance board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal control and effectiveness: are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by A strategic risk assessment exercise to identify and assess the the audit committee.
Groups key risks and the controls in place to manage and mitigate against these risks: The nature and scope of the internal audits to be completed during the year was reviewed and approved by the audit committee and Review of the internal audit reports issued during the year and the the reports of results of completed audits received and responses risk based internal audit programme for 2011: of executive management were considered.
The plan set out at the beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work Review of the external audit plan: was in line with expectations.
Review of the external auditors performance by means of The audit committees terms of reference include a process for completion of an online questionnaire by members of the board employees of the Company to raise in con dence concerns about and the Companys financial management as a result of which possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
the board is recommending that shareholders approve the reappointment of  LLP as external auditor The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, among for 2011 at the forthcoming AGM on 23 September 2010.
The other things, the following responsibilities: questionnaire was supplied by Lintstock Limited, the independent corporate advisory rm that provides objective and independent To report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which counsel to leading European companies.
 it considers that action or improvement is needed and making LLP have been the external auditor to the Group since the recommendations as to the steps to be taken: Companys initial public offering in 2005.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Company on the choice of external auditor: To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control: An updated policy on market abuse and insider dealing: and To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, The management of corporate fraud risks.
including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and any other announcement relating to its Nomination committee financial performance: The nomination committee is comprised of Kevin Loosemore who chairs the committee, David Maloney non-executive senior To review the consistency of, and changes to, accounting policies: independent director and, following his appointment on 1 May 2010, Nigel Clifford Chief Executive Of cer.
Stephen Kelly resigned To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal as a director and from the committee on 8 September 2009.
The controls and risk management systems: committee has met five times during the financial year.
The nomination committee will meet at least twice during the coming financial year.
To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in con dence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 32 The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and ful l its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained pro tability structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants to and growth: identify suitable candidates where a position is identi ed.
Research and development and capital expenditure programmes The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures: other matters, the following responsibilities: All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the size To review the structure, size and composition of the board and and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: formal limits above which the review level is escalated: To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major to ll board vacancies as and when they arise: accounts: and To give full consideration to succession planning for directors and Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types other senior executives: with appropriate authorisation controls.
To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company in association ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date To review annually the time required from non-executives and of approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly reviewed by evaluating whether they are spending enough time to ful l the board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
As part of the process that the Company has in place to review Following the resignation of Stephen Kelly, the nomination committee the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures oversaw the search and selection process of the new Chief Executive designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and Of cer.
The committee appointed external independent professional in the case of those categorised by the board as signi cant, advisers, Russell Reynolds, to assist and a shortlist of candidates was procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy recommended to the committee to be interviewed and considered by any such failings.
This process culminated in the appointment of Nigel Clifford as the Groups new Chief Executive Of cer with effect from This requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of reference 1 May 2010. to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal financial control procedures and to make recommendations to the Remuneration committee board in this area.
Details of the remuneration committee are described in the remuneration report on pages 36 to 43.
The external auditor provides a supplementary, independent and autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control Accountability and audit system which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings The board is responsible for the preparation of financial statements are regularly reported to both the audit committee and the board.
that present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the audit To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a stringent committee, the terms of reference of which are referred to above.
process in place to approve non-audit work.
Internal controls Risk management The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring The board recognises the need to understand and control the variety internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their of risks to which the Group is exposed.
In order to address these effectiveness.
It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control challenges on behalf of the board, during the year, the audit are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that committee oversaw the executive managements risk management those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and activities.
The executive management took responsibility for regular that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance evaluation of generic and speci c risks within the business and the against material misstatement or loss.
implementation of mitigation plans to address them.
The key elements of the control system are: Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups business objectives and according to current market and economic issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the responsibility of the board and line management respectively.
The risk process has been in place for the year under review and is up to date at the time of this report.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Management and governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The audit committee considers any signi cant control matters raised in Human resources reports from management, and by the internal and external auditors.
The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses are knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
identi ed, the audit committee requires appropriate action to be taken by management and may request internal audit to perform a speci c The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and review into these areas if required.
providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives Financial reporting and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice In addition to the general internal controls and risk management each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organisational processes described above, the Group also has speci c internal structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
controls and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process: Announcements All major announcements are approved by the Chairman and the There are Group policies covering what is reported in monthly executive directors and circulated to the board prior to issue.
reporting to the board and senior management team.
The Groups financial reporting system has been guided by the requirement to The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against ensure consistency and visibility of management information to unauthorised release of information.
enable the board and senior management to review the Groups worldwide operations effectively: Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit Cash ows are produced twice monthly by all operations.
These are detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
management by the Group and to enable its bank funding to be repaid as soon as possible: Insurance The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies with Management representations covering compliance with Group its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the policies and the accuracy of financial information are collated on Groups activities and exposures.
a quarterly basis: and Attendance at meetings All the major trading entities completed a self assessment on the The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended effectiveness of their internal control environment.
by each director in the year to 30 April 2010 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Consolidation reporting Board committee committee committee The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended of financial information from the individual financial statements of Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiary undertakings Kevin Loosemore 23 22 8 8 5 5 to prepare consolidated financial statements that present Stephen Kelly 12 12 0 0 financial information for the Group as a single economic Nick Bray 23 23 entity.
Note 1, Group accounting policies, sets out the basis David Maloney 23 22 6 6 8 8 5 5 of preparation and consolidation, including the elimination Paul Pester 23 20 6 6 8 8 of inter-company transactions, balances and unrealised gains Tom Skelton 23 20 6 6 8 7 between Group companies: During period of appointment.
Notes: Financial information from subsidiaries is reviewed for accuracy Stephen Kelly resigned on 8 September 2009. by either external audit or by internal review where a formal Nick Bray resigned on 23 June 2010. audit is not required: and Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting The consolidated financial statements are completed in accordance papers for board and committee meetings a week prior to the with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide feedback IFRIC interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006. to the Chairman, chairman of the committee or the Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated at the meeting.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 34 Shareholder relations The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, around June preliminary announcement of annual results and December interim statement and the Company also publishes interim management statements in or around August and February each year.
The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders in August.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given to shareholders when the half year and full year financial results are announced and at other times.
In addition to the Chief Executive Of cer and Chief Financial Of cer, who have regular contact with investors, Kevin Loosemore the Chairman and David Maloney the senior independent non-executive director are available to meet with shareholders as and when required.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports are also circulated to directors.
com provides an overview of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
All Group announcements are available on the Companys website and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms of reference of each of the boards three committees and other important corporate governance documents are available on the website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Chief Executive Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and Head of Investor Relations provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Companys AGM, which will be held on 23 September 2010 at 3pm UK time will provide an opportunity for the board to meet with all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will be available for questions from shareholders.
In accordance with the Combined Code recommendations, the Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for and against each such resolution and the number of votes withheld.
A resolution will be proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend to answer questions.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on page 28 of the directors report and in note 22 to the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
