DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance executive Directors provide strong independent judgement to The Board is committed to ensuring that good practice in the deliberations of the Board.
corporate governance is observed throughout the Group, and Directors biographies shown on pages 49 to 51 identify the remains the responsibility of the whole Board.
The Board is Chairman, Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the committed to maintaining high standards of business integrity Boards standing committees and other Directors considered and professionalism in all its activities, and continues to support by the Board to be independent, having taken consideration of the highest standards in corporate governance.
the factors set out in Code provision A.
There have been no significant changes in the Chairmans external commitments The Board considers that, throughout the year, it was compliant since the last annual report.
with the provisions of the Combined Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008.
A copy of A written statement defining the respective responsibilities of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer has been www.
The Board will report in the 2011 Annual agreed and approved by the Board.
Report on its compliance with the Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring the Board procedures the Board and applicable rules and regulations are observed.
In addition, Overall control of the Group is exercised by the Board, which the Directors are able, if necessary, to take independent has responsibility, amongst other things, for setting strategy and professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is the ensuring that adequate resources are available and leadership opportunity for non-executive Directors to meet separately is provided to achieve the Groups strategy.
The Board meets with the Chairman.
up to ten times a year and has a schedule of matters reserved The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is for its attention.
All Directors receive detailed papers one also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive appropriate week prior to Board and committee meetings.
Reserved training at the Companys expense where specific expertise matters which require Board approval include: acquisitions: is required in the course of the exercise of their duties.
All significant property transactions: capital expenditure above Directors receive a Board Compendium detailing matters predetermined limits: major contractual commitments: Board relating to Board procedures.
level and Company Secretary appointments terminations: significant litigation issues: the Groups financial statements: The Board has established agreed procedures for managing communications with shareholders and approval of certain potential conflicts of interest.
These procedures and any group-wide policies including health, safety and environment potential conflicts authorised in accordance with section 175 4 policies, treasury policy, ethics policy, anti-bribery policy and Companies Act 2006, as permitted by the Companys Articles whistle-blowing procedures.
Other matters which are reserved of Association, are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The for the Board have been delegated to its standing committees, Board is satisfied that the procedures for managing potential details of which are set out further in this report.
Executive management is responsible to the Board for the Succession planning for non-executive Directors is considered Groups operational performance including: implementing by the Nomination Committee as appropriate.
Group strategy as determined by the Board: maintaining adequate internal control systems and risk management Kwek Leng Beng and Connal Rankin will retire by rotation at processes: monitoring operational performance against plans the forthcoming annual general meeting and will stand for reand targets and reporting to the Board any significant variances: election.
maintaining an effective management team and succession planning.
Kwek Leng Joo has advised the Board of his intention to retire with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman and two nonexecutive Directors, who are Directors of the majority Christopher Sneath, who had been an independent nonshareholder, City Developments Limited, a senior independent executive Director since 1999 retired from the Board on 5 May non-executive Director, four additional independent non- 2010. executive Directors and two executive Directors.
Each Director is expected to fulfil their duties for the benefit of Board Committees all shareholders and it is believed that the independent nonIn relation to certain matters, committees have been established with specific delegated authority.
The standing committees of 54 55 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE the Board are Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms independence and objectivity are safeguarded by the Audit of reference for these committees are available, on request, Committee monitoring and approving, when appropriate, the from the Company Secretary and on the Groups website at nature of any non-audit work and the levels of fees paid.
The Company Secretary acts as Committee has reviewed the FRCs Audit Committee Guidance secretary to all standing committees of the Board.
published in December 2010 and has noted the specific inclusion of guidance on non-audit services.
The Committee will establish a formal policy on non-audit services consistent Audit Committee with this guidance.
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent nonexecutive Directors.
The Committee Chairman was Christopher The external auditor and head of internal audit normally attend Sneath until 24 March 2010 and was succeeded by Nicholas all Audit Committee meetings.
Executive Directors and senior George.
It is considered that Nicholas George has recent and management from the Groups finance function are normally relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
Separate meetings are held with the external duties of the Audit Committee include: auditor without the presence of any member of executive management and similar meetings are held with the head of Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control internal audit.
and risk management procedures: Consideration of the appointment of the external auditor remuneration Committee and to make appropriate recommendations through The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Connal Rankin and the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
It is general meeting: responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys Agreement of the detailed scope of the external audit prior remuneration policies, determining the remuneration packages to the commencement of their audit: reviewing the scope of executive Directors and the operation of the Companys and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness: and employee share-based incentive schemes.
The Group recommendation of the audit fee to the Board: Chief Executive Officer would normally be invited to attend meetings, if appropriate, but would not be present when Monitoring the integrity, prior to submission to the Board, his own remuneration is discussed.
The Committee takes of periodic financial statements, annual accounts, reports independent advice as deemed necessary.
The Directors to shareholders and any other public announcement Remuneration Report is given on pages 59 to 65, where further concerning the Companys financial position, corporate details of remuneration strategy are given.
The fees paid to governance statements and statements on the Groups non-executive Directors are considered by the full Board, system of internal controls: having regard to any relevant advice received.
Ensuring that arrangements are in place for employees to nominations Committee raise concerns, in confidence, about possible fraud risk or The Nominations Committee is chaired by Kwek Leng Beng wrong doing in financial reporting or other matters: and comprises a majority of independent non-executive Directors and meets as necessary.
On behalf of the Board, Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition audit function: agreeing the annual work plan and being of the Board, considers succession planning for Directors and satisfied itself that the function has the proper resources other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and to enable it to satisfactorily complete such work plans: opportunities facing the Group and what skills and expertise are review status reports from the internal audit: considering needed on the Board in future.
The Committee is responsible managements response to any major finding and providing for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board support, if necessary, for any follow-up action required: candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
and ensuring that the function obtains free and unrestricted access to all Group activities, records, property and During the year, the Nominations Committee has met to personnel necessary to fulfil its agreed objectives.
consider the search for a successor to Richard Hartman who announced his intention to retire as Chief Executive Officer.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the The search for Mr Hartmans successor is ongoing and an independence and objectivity of the external auditor and announcement will be made in due course.
has reported to the Board that it considers that the auditors independence and objectivity has been maintained.
Audit 56 57 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE Board and Committee Meetings Figures in brackets represent the maximum number of Board or The number of meetings of the Board, and its committees, held committee meetings held whilst the individual concerned is a during the year are shown below together with attendance Board member or member of the relevant committee.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Kwek Leng Beng Chairman 8 8 na na 2 2 Richard Hartman 7 8 na na na Wong Hong Ren 8 8 na na na Christopher Keljik 8 8 6 6 5 5 2 2 HE Shaukat Aziz 6 8 na 2 5 na Christopher Sneath 2 2 3 3 na na Nicholas George 8 8 5 6 4 5 na Kwek Leng Joo 3 8 na na na Kwek Leng Peck 2 8 na na 2 2 Connal Rankin 7 8 6 6 5 5 2 2 Alexander Waugh 8 8 na na 2 2 Kwek Eik Sheng attended five Board meetings as alternate for Kwek Leng Joo.
significant Risk Factors are included in the Business Review on pages 40 to 44. evaluation process The Board evaluation process has been conducted by the The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Turnbull Directors completing on-line questionnaires which solicit views guidance, there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating on the Board governance processes, the operation of standing and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This committees and a self assessment of individual Directors process is reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the performances.
Feedback from the evaluation process is Board and has been in place for the year under review, and up compiled by the Company Secretary and a report is prepared to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
for consideration by the Board.
In addition, the performance of executive and non-executive Directors is assessed annually by Primary responsibility for the operation of the system of the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman and independent internal controls is delegated to executive management.
non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors The effectiveness of the operation of the internal control in attendance.
Evaluation of the Chairman is conducted by system is reviewed by an internal audit function and, where the independent non-executive Directors led by the senior appropriate, by the Companys external auditor, who report independent non-executive Director.
to management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, responsibility is delegated to executive management to internal Control system monitor the effectiveness of the systems of control in managing The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal identified risks as established by the Board.
The internal audit control, including the Companys financial reporting process department reviews the effectiveness of key internal controls and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated as part of its standard work programme, and individual reports accounts, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
In establishing are issued to appropriate senior management.
These reports this system, the Directors have considered the nature of are summarised and distributed to the Audit Committee, the Groups business, with regard to the risks to which that the Group Chief Executive Officer, senior management of particular business is exposed, the likelihood of such risks the Group and the external auditor.
They are subsequently occurring, their potential impact and the costs of protecting reviewed by the Audit Committee, which ensures that, where against them.
However, such a system is designed to manage necessary, recommendations on appropriate corrective action rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business are drawn to the attention of the full Board.
objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The Groups 56 57 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The main features of the Groups internal control framework Auditor are: In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution regarding the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming the Board, which sets business objectives for the Group.
Annual plans and performance targets for each region are set by the executive management team and reviewed by statement of the Directors as to Disclosure of the Board on a geographical basis in the light of overall information to the Auditor objectives: The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, Within the financial and overall objectives for the Group, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys agreed by the Board, the day-to-day management is auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer and that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself executive management.
The executive management aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that team receives a monthly summary of the results from the the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
business and carries out regular operational reviews with business managers to ensure appropriate pursuit of the Annual General Meeting overall objectives and management of the primary risks The annual general meeting will be held at 10:00 am on of the Group.
Friday, 6 May 2011 at the Millennium Hotel London Mayfair, Grosvenor Square, London W1K 2HP.
Communication with shareholders General presentations are made after the announcement of A detailed explanation of each item of non-routine business to final and half-yearly results.
There is a programme of meetings be considered at the annual general meeting is included with with major institutional shareholders to review the Groups the Notice of Meeting.
In addition, the senior independent non-executive Director has meetings with a range of major By order of the board shareholders during the year and other non-executive Directors also have the opportunity to attend such meetings.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board of views expressed by shareholders at these meetings.
By order of the Board At general meetings there is the opportunity for all shareholders to question the Chairman and other Directors including Adrian Bushnell the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Company secretary committees.
The Company prepares separate resolutions on 15 February 2011 each substantially separate issue put to shareholders and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately.
A schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual Report is laid before the shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting, and the Company encourages all shareholders to make positive use of the Companys annual general meeting for communication with the Board.
58 59 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
