Audit Committee report establish, review and maintain the role 28 January 2010 upon the failure of the The Audit Committees and effectiveness of the Internal Audit resolution at the Annual General Meeting in responsibilities include: function, known as Group Assurance: respect of his reappointment.
Simon Laf n assume direct responsibility for the as a quali ed accountant and the former Reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, appointment, compensation, resignation, chief financial of cer of a then FTSE 100 misconduct and internal control weaknesses Reviewing the effectiveness of the Group dismissal and the overseeing of the company, had current and relevant financial Assurance function external auditors, including review of the experience and was considered to be the Overseeing the relationship with the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: Committees financial expert.
Tony Bates external auditors pre-approve non-audit work to be carried as a Chartered Accountant and the former For our latest financial information go to: out by the external auditors and the chief financial of cer of a FTSE 250 www.
com investors fees to be paid for that work together company, had current and relevant financial with the monitoring of the external experience and was considered to be the auditors independence: Committees financial expert for the period The Companys Audit Committee the oversee the process for dealing with 30 November 2009 to 28 January 2010.
Committee has, with the exception of the complaints received by the Group matter described below in respect of its regarding accounting, internal The Committees other members are composition, met the requirements of the accounting controls or auditing matters currently Michael Balfour, Jeremy Blood Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the con dential, anonymous and Sir Tim Lankester.
Michael Balfour throughout the year.
A copy of the submission by employees of concerns and Jeremy Blood were appointed as Committees terms of reference is publicly regarding questionable accounting or independent Non-Executive Directors available within the Investor section of the auditing matters: and on 28 January 2010 and as members Companys website.
adopt and oversee a speci c Code of of the Committee on 2 February 2010.
Ethics for all corporate employees which Role of the Audit Committee is consistent with the Companys overall Tony Bates, Denis Jackson and Ray The Committees principal responsibilities statement of business ethics.
MacSharry were appointed as members of are to: the Committee on 16 October 2009.
Denis Audit Committee composition Jackson and Ray MacSharry ceased to be review the Companys public statements The Committee is chaired by Simon Burke, Directors on 2 December 2009.
Sara Weller on internal control and corporate who was appointed as an independent was a member of the Committee until she governance compliance prior to their Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2010 retired as a Director on 28 January 2010. consideration by the Board: and as the chairman of the Committee review the Companys processes on 2 February 2010.
As a Chartered For the five day period between 28 January for detecting fraud, misconduct and Accountant he has current and relevant 2010 and 2 February 2010 the Company control weaknesses and to consider financial experience and is considered did not comply with the provisions of the the Companys response to any such to be the Committees financial expert.
Combined Code in respect of establishing occurrence: The previous chairman of the Committee, an Audit Committee of at least three review managements evaluation of Tony Bates, was appointed as chairman members, one of whom should have any change in internal controls over of the Committee on 7 December 2009 recent and relevant financial experience.
financial reporting: in succession to Simon Laf n who ceased During this period however no Committee review with management and the to be chairman and a member of the meetings were held.
external auditors any financial statements Committee on 30 November 2009 upon required under UK legislation before his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
submission to the Board: Tony Bates ceased to be a Director on 38 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Committee wishes to retain the During the year, the Committee considered The Companys public financial statements knowledge, experience and judgement of the following matters: are reviewed by the Committee in advance the Chairman of the Board, John Lovering, of their consideration by the Board.
but, re ecting recommendations within the interim and full year financial results: FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, he is the scope and cost of the external audit: External auditors independence not a member of the Committee, but may non-audit work carried out by the The Committee has adopted a policy on the attend at the invitation of the Committees external auditors and trends in the use of the external auditors for non-audit chairman.
The Committee regularly invites non-audit fees in accordance with work which is in compliance with the the external auditors, the Chief Executive, the Committees policy to ensure the Combined Code.
The external auditors the Finance Director and the Director of safeguard of audit independence: may carry out certain speci ed non-audit Group Assurance to its meetings.
The the scope of the annual internal audit work, in areas that have been pre-approved Company Secretary attends and is secretary plan, Group Assurances terms of by the Committee, up to a monetary limit to the Committee.
Discussions are held in reference, its resourcing and of half the audit fee per transaction and private when appropriate.
external support: subject to an annual total cap of no more the external auditors interim and full than the audit fee.
Any other work for Audit Committee frequency year reports: which management wishes to utilise the The Committee meets at least four times periodic internal control and assurance external auditors must be approved, subject a year.
During FY 2010 five meetings reports from Group Assurance: to a fide minimus limit, by the Committee of the Committee were held and, with the effectiveness of the external auditors or its chairman.
The pre-approved services the exception of Sir Tim Lankester who and consideration of their reappointment: may be summarised as follows: attended four meetings, all members reports on allegations made via the attended each of the meetings during Groups whistleblowing procedures and audit related services, including work their periods of membership.
the effectiveness of these procedures: related to the annual Group financial the effectiveness of Group Assurance: statements audit, subsidiary audits Audit Committee process management representations granted to and local statutory accounts: and The Committee discharges its responsibilities, the external auditors and the Companys certain speci ed tax services, including as fide ned in its terms of reference, through procedures to ensure all relevant tax compliance, tax planning and a series of Audit Committee meetings audit information has been disclosed: tax advice.
throughout the year at which detailed major changes in the Groups internal reports are presented for review.
The controls: Approved by the Board Committee commissions reports, from the co-ordination of the internal external advisers, the Director of Group and external audit functions: Simon Burke Assurance, or Company management, the Groups framework for the Chairman of the Audit Committee either after consideration of the Companys identi cation and control of major risks, 22 November 2010 major risks or in response to developing its risk and assurance mitigation plan issues.
The Committee meets privately with and the annual assessment of control the external auditors and the Director of effectiveness: Group Assurance at least four times a year compliance with the code of ethics: and liaises with Company management in corporate governance developments: considering areas for review.
review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: the status of material litigation involving the Group: and the Committees own terms of reference, membership and its effectiveness.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2010
