Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance statement certain Board appointments as detailed Drummond Hall stepped down as Chairman Corporate governance statement below A.
4.6, the Senior Independent on 29 November 2009 but continued to Director A.
3.3, constitution of the serve as a Non-Executive Director until The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance Nomination Committee A.
Simon Laf n was appointed with the Combined Code.
This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate constitution of the Remuneration Chairman on 30 November 2009 at which balance of skills and experience represented on the Committee B.
2.1 and constitution of point he relinquished his role as Senior Board and maintaining relations with shareholders.
the Audit Committee C. 3.1 as described Independent Director.
The information required by For our latest financial information go to: www.
com investors Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR On 1 December 2009 Richard McGuire 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report ceased to be a Director of the Company.
On on pages 38 to 39 and the information 2 December 2009 Denis Jackson, Raymond The Board recognises the importance of required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this MacSharry and Douglas McMahon ceased to good corporate governance in creating Corporate governance statement, other be Directors of the Company.
Letters setting a sustainable, successful and pro table than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which out the background as to why these former business.
Details are set out below of is set out in the Directors report on pages Directors were removed from the Board the Companys corporate governance 27 to 30. were sent to shareholders in December 2009 procedures and application of the and January 2010: the letters are available principles of the Combined Code on Board composition on the Companys website www.
com Corporate Governance issued by the A table listing all changes to the Board of Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 Directors during the year is on page 33.
In December 2009 a nominee acting the Combined Code which is available on behalf of Piedmont Inc. proposed online at www.
uk At the start of FY 2010 the Board comprised: resolutions to be added to the agenda for the Non-Executive Chairman, Drummond the Companys Annual General Meeting In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Hall: two Executive Directors, Adam Fowle AGM held in January 2010 to appoint Council issued a new edition of the and Jeremy Townsend: and six Nonfour new Directors to the Board and Combined Code called the UK Corporate Executive Directors, Denis Jackson, Simon remove Drummond Hall as a Director.
Governance Code which applies to financial Laf n, Sir Tim Lankester, Ray MacSharry, Piedmont Inc. also exercised its right, years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Sara Weller and Richard McGuire.
Richard pursuant to the Appointment Deed, McGuire, because of his association with to appoint Ronald Robson as its nonThe Board has reviewed the content of the Piedmont Inc. the Companys largest independent representative Director.
UK Corporate Governance Code and will shareholder, was determined a nonRon Robson was appointed as a Director report on compliance with the new code as independent Non-Executive Director.
on 22 January 2010: as his appointment part of the FY 2011 Corporate Governance was pursuant to the Appointment Deed Statement.
The Board has noted provision During the year various changes were an external agency was not engaged.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance made to the composition of the Board.
Tony Code in respect of directors being subject Bates was appointed as an independent Sara Weller, an independent Non-Executive to annual election by shareholders and Non-Executive Director on 13 October 2009.
Director, retired following the Companys in anticipation of this provision which Tony was recruited with the assistance of an AGM held on 28 January 2010.
Further to will apply for financial periods commencing external agency.
Shortly thereafter Piedmont the vote at that AGM, Tony Bates, Drummond on or after 29 June 2010, each Director Inc. exercised its right, pursuant to a deed Hall and Simon Laf n ceased to be Directors.
wishing to continue will retire voluntarily dated 15 July 2009, the Appointment Deed, Michael Balfour, Jeremy Blood, Simon and submit themselves for re-election by to appoint an additional representative Burke and John Lovering were appointed as the shareholders at the 2011 Annual Director, Douglas McMahon, who was Directors and Ron Robson was re-elected as General Meeting.
appointed to the Board on 18 November a Director.
No external agency was engaged 2009.
As this appointment was pursuant in relation to the appointments proposed by The Board considers that the Company to a request from the Companys major Piedmont Inc.
Immediately after the AGM has complied throughout the year ended shareholder an external agency was not John Lovering was appointed as Chairman 25 September 2010 with all the provisions engaged.
Douglas McMahons appointment of the Company.
On 2 February 2010 Simon of the Combined Code except, from time as a non-independent Non-Executive Burke was appointed Deputy Chairman, to time only, those in respect of Board Director was recommended to the Senior Independent Director and Audit composition and balance A.
3.2, Board by the Nomination Committee.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued Following a review by Fresh elds Bruckhaus Burke have con rmed that they will submit The Executive Directors may be permitted Deringer LLP of the relevant circumstances themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGM to accept one external non-executive surrounding the breakdown in relationships and will stand down in the event that they director appointment with the Companys between the Directors of the Company in do not command support from a majority of prior approval and as long as this is not late 2009, on 13 May 2010 the Company shareholders excluding Piedmont Inc. likely to lead to con icts of interest.
announced that the Directors removed from the Board in December 2009 had acted in Due to the events which took place in late The Company Secretarys responsibilities what they believed to be the best interests 2009 and early 2010, prior to 28 January include ensuring good information ows to of the Company.
The Board further stated 2010, the Board did not necessarily comply the Board and its committees and between that nothing had come to their attention that with: sections A.
3.2 of the Combined senior management and the Non-Executive would prevent any of the former Directors Code in relation to Board balance and Directors.
The appointment and removal of from serving as credible and capable at least half of the Board comprising the Company Secretary is a matter reserved independent directors of listed companies, independent Non-Executive Directors: for the Board.
The Company Secretary is including Mitchells & Butlers plc, in the section B.
2.1 in relation to establishing a responsible through the Chairman, for future.
All parties agreed that the Companys Remuneration Committee of at least three advising the Board on all corporate and shareholders interests are best served independent Non-Executive Directors: governance matters and for assisting the by supporting the current Board structure and, C. 3.1 in relation to establishing an Directors with their professional and its strategy.
Audit Committee of at least three members, development.
This includes regular all of whom should be independent corporate governance and business issues On 31 August 2010 Jeremy Townsend Non-Executive Directors.
updates, as well as the use of operational resigned as Finance Director.
site visits and the provision of external Board and committee structure courses where required.
During the year, Douglas McMahon was appointed as To support the principles of good corporate the Company Secretary facilitated a a second representative Non-Executive governance, the Board and Committee comprehensive induction for each of the Director for Piedmont Inc. on 15 October structure operates as set out below.
newly appointed Directors, tailored to 2010: as his appointment was pursuant to individual requirements and including the Appointment Deed an external agency The Board guidance on requirements of, and Directors was not engaged.
The Board is responsible to shareholders duties in connection with, the Combined for the strategic direction, development and Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well Tim Jones was appointed Finance Director control of the Group.
It therefore approves as other relevant legislation.
Tim was recruited strategic plans and annual capital and with the assistance of an external agency.
It reviews signi cant During FY 2010 there were nine scheduled investment proposals and the performance Board meetings including a two day off-site As at 22 November 2010 the Board of past investments and maintains an meeting which considered the Groups consists of: the Non-Executive Chairman, overview and control of the Groups strategy and a further 18 Board meetings John Lovering, who was independent operating and financial performance.
which were called at short notice.
The on appointment: two Executive Directors, It monitors the Groups overall system table opposite shows attendance levels Adam Fowle and Tim Jones: and six of internal controls, governance and at the scheduled Board and Committee Non-Executive Directors, Michael Balfour, compliance and ensures that the necessary meetings held during the year: the numbers Jeremy Blood, Simon Burke, Sir Tim financial and human resources are in place in brackets con rm how many meetings Lankester, Douglas McMahon and Ron for the Company to meet its objectives.
The each Director was eligible to attend during Robson.
Michael Balfour, Jeremy Blood, Board has established a schedule of matters the year.
Simon Burke and Sir Tim Lankester which are reserved for its attention which are determined to be independent are published on the Companys website.
Where a Director was unable to attend Non-Executive Directors.
a meeting, they were provided with all The Board has adopted objective written the papers and information relating to that Given the unusual circumstances criteria for the appointment of Directors and meeting and were able to discuss issues surrounding the election of the new Board the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive arising directly with the Chairman and Directors at the 2010 AGM, John Lovering, and Non-Executive Directors have been Chief Executive.
There are nine Board Michael Balfour, Jeremy Blood and Simon fide ned in writing.
meetings currently planned for FY 2011.
32 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Attendance levels at scheduled Board and Committee meetings Following the year end Tim Jones was appointed as Finance Director on 18 October Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 2010 and on 15 October 2010 Douglas scheduled Committee Committee Committee McMahon was again appointed as a NonCurrent Directors who served during the year Michael Balfour 5 6 2 2 2 3 1 1 Executive Director of the Company acting Jeremy Blood 6 6 2 2 3 3 n a as a nominated shareholder representative Simon Burke 6 6 2 2 3 3 1 1 of Piedmont Inc. Douglas McMahon is a Adam Fowle 9 9 n a n a 3 3 non-independent Non-Executive Director.
Sir Tim Lankester 8 9 4 5 5 5 3 3 John Lovering 6 6 n a n a 1 1 Ronald Robson 6 6 n a n a n a The biographical details of Board Directors Former Directors who served during the year as at 22 November 2010 are set out on Antony Bates 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 pages 24 and 25 and these include their Douglas McMahon 0 0 n a n a n a main commitments outside the Company.
Drummond Hall 3 3 n a 2 2 2 2 Denis Jackson 2 2 2 2 1 1 n a Simon Laf n 2 3 2 2 2 2 1 2 In accordance with the Companys Articles Raymond MacSharry 2 2 2 2 1 1 n a of Association the Company ensures that Richard McGuire 2 2 n a n a 1 1 Directors submit themselves for re-election Jeremy Townsend 9 9 n a n a n a at least every three years.
In the interests Sara Weller 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 of good corporate governance and in Relates to Douglas McMahons initial appointment to the Board between 19 November and 1 December 2009 anticipation of provision B.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code which will Directors apply for financial periods commencing on The following were Directors of the Company during the year: or after 29 June 2010, each of the Directors wishing to continue will retire voluntarily Date appointed Date left and submit themselves for re-election by Sara Weller Independent Non-Executive Director 15 04 03 28 01 10 the shareholders.
Sir Tim Lankester will Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive Director 16 05 03 retire by rotation at the AGM on 27 January Drummond Hall Chairman from 20 06 08 to 29 11 09 30 07 04 28 01 10 Adam Fowle Chief Executive from 03 08 09 01 10 07 2011 and will not be offering himself for Jeremy Townsend Finance Director 31 01 08 31 08 10 re-election.
As noted above, given the Simon Laf n Chairman 30 11 09 to 28 01 10 29 01 09 28 01 10 unusual circumstances surrounding the Senior Independent Director 01 06 09 to 29 11 09 appointment of Messrs Balfour, Blood, Richard McGuire Non-independent Non-Executive Director 16 07 09 01 12 09 Denis Jackson Non-Executive Director 28 08 09 02 12 09 Burke and Lovering at the 2010 AGM, Ray MacSharry Non-Executive Director 28 08 09 02 12 09 each of these four Directors has con rmed Tony Bates Independent Non-Executive Director 13 10 09 28 01 10 that they will stand down at the close of Douglas McMahon Non-independent Non-Executive Director 18 11 09 02 12 09 the Companys 2011 AGM in the event Ron Robson Non-independent Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 Michael Balfour Independent Non-Executive Director 28 01 10 that they do not command support from Jeremy Blood Independent Non-Executive Director 28 01 10 a majority of shareholders excluding Simon Burke Deputy Chairman and 28 01 10 Piedmont Inc. Senior Independent Director from 02 02 2010 John Lovering Chairman from 28 01 10 28 01 10 Details of the Executive Directors service Determined independent on appointment contracts are set out on page 46 and on the Companys website.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued More information about the Directors Non-Executive Directors All Directors are briefed by the use standing for reappointment is set out in the The Company has experienced Nonof comprehensive papers circulated AGM Notice and in the following paragraphs.
Executive Directors on its Board.
In addition in advance of Board meetings and by to the Chairman, who was independent presentations at the meetings in addition Chairman upon his appointment, the Board considers to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
John Lovering is the Chairman of the Board.
Michael Balfour, Jeremy Blood, Simon Their understanding of the Groups He ensures that appropriate communication Burke and Sir Tim Lankester to be business is enhanced by business speci c is maintained with shareholders.
He has independent as they are free from any presentations and operational visits to the responsibility for the smooth running of the business or other relationship which could Companys businesses.
Separate strategy Board and for ensuring that all Directors materially in uence their judgement and meetings and meetings with senior are fully informed of matters relevant to they represent a strong source of advice executives are also held throughout the their roles.
He also chairs the Nomination and independent challenge.
The training needs of Directors and Committee.
and Douglas McMahon were appointed of members of the Boards Committees as Non-Executive Directors on 22 January are formally considered on an annual basis Chief Executive 2010 and 18 October 2010 respectively, as and are also monitored throughout the year.
Adam Fowle is the Chief Executive and has representatives of the Companys largest responsibility for implementing the strategy shareholder, Piedmont Inc. and are Committees agreed by the Board and for the executive therefore not regarded as independent.
Each Board Committee has written terms management of the Group.
of reference approved by the Board, which Of the former Directors who served during are available on the Companys website.
Senior Independent Director the year, Tony Bates and Sara Weller were Simon Laf n was the Senior Independent regarded as independent, as was Simon Audit Committee Director until his appointment as Chairman Laf n until his appointment as Chairman on Simon Burke is chairman of the Audit on 30 November 2009.
Drummond Hall was Committee and has chaired the Audit changes which took place at the end of determined independent on appointment Committee since 2 February 2010.
Simon 2009 and beginning of 2010, there was but, as set out in the Combined Code, Laf n chaired the Audit Committee until his no Senior Independent Director in place having served as Chairman from appointment as Chairman of the Company between Simon Laf ns appointment as 20 June 2008 to 29 November 2009 the on 30 November 2009 at which point he Chairman on 30 November 2009 and the independence test is no longer appropriate ceased to be a member of this Committee.
appointment of Simon Burke as Deputy to apply to his position.
Although Tony Bates was appointed a member Chairman, Senior Independent Director determined to be independent on their of the Audit Committee on 16 October and chairman of the Audit Committee on appointment, the former Board was 2009 and chaired the Audit Committee 2 February 2010 whilst the Nomination unable to reach a conclusion regarding from 7 December 2009 until he ceased Committee considered the Board the independence of Denis Jackson and to be a Director on 28 January 2010. composition as a whole.
Despite there Ray MacSharry at the end of their tenure.
not being a Senior Independent Director Richard McGuire was a representative Sara Weller served as a member of the during the period there has at all times of the Companys largest shareholder, Audit Committee until her retirement on been a strong representation of independent Piedmont Inc. and was therefore 28 January 2010.
Denis Jackson and Ray Non-Executive Directors on the Board not regarded as an independent MacSharry also served as members of the available to meet with shareholders.
Audit Committee from 16 October 2009 until 2 December 2009.
Since 2 February Other than their fees which are 2010, the Audit Committee has consisted of disclosed on page 47, the Non-Executive Simon Burke and three other independent Directors received no remuneration from Non-Executive Directors, Michael Balfour, the Company during the year.
When Jeremy Blood and Sir Tim Lankester, Non-Executive Directors are considered who has served as a member of the Audit for appointment, the Nomination Committee throughout the financial year.
Committee will take into account their The Chairman of the Board, the Chief other responsibilities in assessing whether Executive and the Finance Director they can commit suf cient time to their attend such meetings at the invitation prospective directorship.
During FY 2010 the Committee met five times.
34 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information For the five day period between 28 January Further details about the Remuneration Between 16 October 2009 and 1 February 2010 and 2 February 2010 the Company Committee are included in the 2010 the Company did not comply with the did not comply with the provisions of the Remuneration report on pages 40 to 53. provision of the Combined Code in respect Combined Code in respect of establishing of the Nomination Committee consisting of an Audit Committee of at least three Nomination Committee a majority of independent Non-Executive members, one of whom should have The Nomination Committee is responsible Directors.
Notwithstanding this nonrecent and relevant financial experience.
for nominating, for the approval of the compliance, there was at all times a formal, During this period however no Committee Board, candidates for appointment to the rigorous and transparent procedure for the meetings were held.
It is also responsible for succession appointment of new Directors to the Board.
the events which took place in late 2009 planning and reviewing the output of the and early 2010, prior to 28 January 2010, Board effectiveness review.
A detailed The Nomination Committee met nine the Audit Committee did not necessarily description of the duties of the Nomination times during the year to consider succession comply with the Combined Code in relation Committee is set out within the terms planning and the various changes in Board to establishing an Audit Committee of at of reference for this Committee, a copy appointments during the year.
It least three members, all of whom should of which is available within the Investors recommended the appointment of Simon be independent Non-Executive Directors.
section of the Companys website at Laf n as Chairman and the appointment of www.
com Tony Bates as Senior Independent Director.
Further details about the Audit Committee More recently the Nomination Committee are included in the Audit Committee report John Lovering, Chairman, chairs the recommended the appointment of Simon on pages 38 and 39.
Nomination Committee and has done so Burke as Deputy Chairman and Senior since 2 February 2010.
Drummond Hall Independent Director and the appointment Remuneration Committee chaired the Committee until 30 November of John Lovering as Chairman, taking into Michael Balfour is chairman of the 2009 when Simon Laf n was appointed account his other external commitments Remuneration Committee and has chaired Chairman of the Company and chair of this none of which were regarded as signi cant.
the Remuneration Committee since Committee.
Drummond Hall continued The Nomination Committee also 2 February 2010.
Sara Weller chaired to serve as a member of this Committee recommended the appointment of Tim Jones the Remuneration Committee until she until 28 January 2010.
Simon Laf n chaired as Finance Director and the appointment retired as a Director on 28 January 2010. the Committee until 28 January 2010: of Douglas McMahon to the Board as he was also a member of the Nomination a second representative of Piedmont Inc. Sir Tim Lankester has been a member of Committee prior to becoming chairman Attendance levels at Nomination Committee the Remuneration Committee throughout of the Committee.
meetings are provided in the table on the year.
Simon Laf n was a member of the page 33.
Simon Burke did not attend the Remuneration Committee until 19 January Adam Fowle, Chief Executive, and Sir Tim meeting to consider his appointment as 2010 and Drummond Hall was a member Lankester have both served as members Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent until 28 January 2010: Tony Bates was of the Nomination Committee throughout Director and John Lovering did not attend a member from 16 October 2009 until FY 2010.
Sara Weller was a member the meeting to consider his appointment 28 January 2010.
Denis Jackson and of the Committee until 28 January 2010. as Chairman.
Where a Director was unable Ray MacSharry were also members Richard McGuire was a member of the to attend a meeting and the meeting did of the Remuneration Committee from Nomination Committee from 16 October not relate to their own appointment, they 16 October 2009 until 2 December 2009.
Tony Bates were provided with all the papers and Since 2 February 2010 the Remuneration was also a member of the Committee from information relating to that meeting and Committee has consisted of Michael Balfour, 7 December 2009 until 28 January 2010. were able to discuss issues arising directly chairman of the Committee and three other Michael Balfour and Simon Burke have with the chair of the Committee and the independent Non-Executive Directors, served as members of this Committee since Company Secretary.
Jeremy Blood, Simon Burke and Sir Tim 2 February 2010.
The Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee has consisted of the met eight times during FY 2010.
Due to Chairman, the Chief Executive and three of the events which took place in late 2009 the independent Non-Executive Directors, and early 2010, prior to 28 January 2010, Michael Balfour, Simon Burke and Sir Tim the Remuneration Committee did not Lankester.
The Company Secretary is necessarily comply with the Combined secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Code in relation to establishing a Remuneration Committee of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 35 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued General Purposes Committee Independent advice Business performance is managed closely The General Purposes Committee Members of the Board may take independent and the Board and the Executive Committee comprises any two Executive Directors or professional advice in the furtherance have established processes, as part of the any one Executive Director together with a of their duties and they have access to normal good management of the business, senior of cer from an agreed and restricted the advice and services of the Company to monitor: list of senior executives.
It is always chaired Secretary & General Counsel, the Companys by a Director.
It attends to business of a legal advisers and external auditors.
strategic plan achievement: routine nature and to the administration of financial performance within a matters, the principles of which have been Internal control comprehensive financial planning, agreed previously by the Board or an The Board is responsible for the accounting and reporting framework: appropriate committee.
Groups system of internal control and capital investment and asset risk management and for reviewing its management performance, with Disclosure Committee effectiveness.
In order to discharge that detailed appraisal, authorisation and The Disclosure Committee considers responsibility, the Board has established post investment reviews: and decides upon matters brought to its the procedures necessary to apply the consumer insight data and actions to attention, which would be likely to give Combined Code, including clear operating evolve brands and formats to ensure rise to an obligation to make a market procedures, lines of responsibility and that they continue to be appealing and announcement under the FSA Listing Rules.
These procedures, relevant: and It comprises the Chief Executive, the which are in accordance with Turnbull risk management, through an ongoing Finance Director, the Director of Corporate Guidance, have been in place since the process, through reports from Group Affairs and the Company Secretary & Group was listed and are regularly Assurance, that the signi cant risks General Counsel.
faced by the Group are being identi ed, evaluated and appropriately managed, Executive Committee The Company has in place internal control having regard to the balance of risk, The Executive Committee, which is chaired and risk management systems in relation to cost and opportunity.
by the Chief Executive, consists of the the Companys financial reporting process Executive Directors and certain other senior and the Groups process for preparation In addition, the Audit Committee receives: executives as shown on page 25. of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to facilitate reports from Group Assurance on The Executive Committee meets every four the maintenance of records that accurately the work carried out under the annual weeks and has day-to-day responsibility and fairly re ect transactions, provide internal audit plan: and for the running of the Groups business.
It reasonable assurance that transactions reports from the external auditors.
develops the Groups strategy and annual are recorded as necessary to permit the revenue and capital budgets for Board preparation of financial statements in Through the monitoring processes set approval.
It reviews and recommends to the accordance with International Financial out above, the Board has conducted a Board any signi cant investment proposals.
Reporting Standards IFRS or UK review of the effectiveness of the system Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, of internal control during the year ended This Committee monitors the financial as appropriate, and that require reported 25 September 2010.
The system of internal and operational performance of the data to be reviewed and reconciled, with control is designed to manage, rather Group and allocates resources within the appropriate monitoring internally and by than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve budgets agreed by the Board.
It considers the Audit Committee.
business objectives and, as such, it can employment issues, ensures the Group has only provide reasonable and not absolute an appropriate pool of talent and develops assurance against material misstatement senior management manpower planning and succession plans.
36 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information or loss.
In that context, the review, in the the Chairman, the Chief Executive and relationships, quality of information ows opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the Finance Director regularly report to the and decision-making, Board committees, the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory Board the views of major shareholders about performance monitoring and the Boards and the Board is not aware of any change the Company, and the Senior Independent priority tasks.
The output was compiled into to this status up to the approval of this Director and other Non-Executive Directors a report which was agreed with the Senior Annual report.
are available to meet shareholders on Independent Director, Simon Burke, who request and are offered the opportunity to led the evaluation process.
The report was With regard to insurance against risk, it is attend meetings with major shareholders.
subsequently discussed between the not practicable to insure against every risk Chairman and the rest of the Board.
The Group regularly The AGM provides a useful interface with reviews both the type and amount of private shareholders, many of whom are During the year the Non-Executive external insurance that it buys with also customers.
All proxy votes received in Directors met without the Executive Directors guidance from an external independent respect of each resolution at the AGM are present, and the Non-Executive Directors body, bearing in mind the availability of counted and the balance for and against, also met without the Chairman present, led such cover, its cost and the likelihood and and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The by the Senior Independent Director, to magnitude of the risks involved.
chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Nomination Committees attend to answer outcome of this appraisal was positive and Shareholder relations questions.
con rmed that he brought valuable The Board recognises that it is accountable experience and expertise to the Board, to shareholders for the performance and Board effectiveness evaluation made valuable contributions to Board activities of the Company.
The Company In FY 2010 the Board carried out a formal discussions, listened to others views and formally updates the market on its financial Board Governance Assessment including was committed to the Companys success.
performance at least five times a year, at a review of issues relating to the Board as the half year and full year results in May a whole, the performance of the Chairman An external evaluator was used as part of and November respectively, the interim and the priority of tasks.
the evaluation process for FY 2008.
Given management statements in January and the level of Board changes during FY 2010 July and a pre-close trading update in The process included the completion it was not considered appropriate to use September.
The content of these updates of a detailed questionnaire by the then an external evaluator this year however is posted and webcast on the Companys current Board Directors and included it is intended than an external evaluator website, together with general information an opportunity for each Director to make will be used for the evaluation for FY 2011. about the Company so as to be available comments.
The areas covered in the to all shareholders.
The Company has questionnaire were the Boards role and John Lovering a regular programme of meetings with its organisation, the Board dynamic and Chairman its major institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, the progress of the business.
The Company also commissions an independent survey of investors each year to determine external views of the Company: the feedback is then Tim Jones and Douglas McMahon did not participate used by the Board to inform the Companys as they were not on the Board at the time the future direction.
On a more informal basis, evaluation was carried out.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2010
