Corporate governance report Corporate governance Financial statements The Board is committed to the highest standards of governance and The Board do not consider Jeff Ubben to be an independent believes that good governance is core to upholding the Misys values.
3.1 of the Combined Code as a result Working with honesty and integrity are vital to building a sustainable of his interest in Value Act, a major shareholder in the Company.
business for all of our stakeholders.
James Crosby was considered independent upon his appointment as Chairman in September 2009.
He is also the senior independent The Company complied throughout the year ended 31 May 2010 Director of Compass Group plc and a Trustee of Cancer Research with all the principles and provisions of the FRC 2008 Combined UK.
Since the date of his appointment, he has resigned as senior Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code subject independent Director of ITV plc.
There have been no other significant to the following explanation.
The Combined Code provides that the changes to the Chairmans commitments since the date of his Board should include a balance of executive and non-executive appointment which could affect his ability to devote sufficient time Directors and in particular independent non-executive Directors to the Companys affairs.
such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
During the year, there was only one Mike Lawrie is a non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. executive Director on the Board, Mike Lawrie.
The Board believes and a Trustee of Drexel University and does not hold any nonthat the independent strengths of the non-executive Directors, the executive directorships with any FTSE 100 company.
access they have to senior management across the Group and the All Directors are able, in appropriate circumstances, to take Companys open culture mean that no individual can dominate the independent professional advice in respect of their duties, with any Boards decision process.
They are therefore of the opinion that fees incurred being paid by the Company.
In addition, all Directors the balance of the Board remains compliant with the principles may seek advice from the Company Secretary.
and spirit of the Combined Code.
Board governance and oversight Governance and the Board The Board is responsible to the Companys shareholders for the Composition conduct and performance of the Companys business.
Having strong The Board continually keeps under review its composition in light of governance processes and oversight help drive the culture of the the ongoing requirements of the business.
Following his appointment business so that it can better deliver on its responsibility to all of as EVP, Head of Banking, Al-Noor Ramji resigned as a non-executive our stakeholders.
During the year, governance oversight has been Director on 31 March 2010.
The Board collectively has a wide range strengthened by: of relevant business, financial and international experience, which is vital to the successful direction of a global company but expects The review of the governance structure and the adoption of to appoint a further non-executive Director in the near future.
a Board governance framework A new Code of Conduct introduced to all staff in March 2010 At the date of this report, the Board comprises the non-executive An externally supported helpline for raising concerns Chairman, one executive Director and four non-executive Directors.
The appointment of a Head of Internal Audit and the bringing Their biographies and details of their membership of Committees in-house of the internal audit function appear earlier in this report.
The Board has developed a Board governance framework which John Ormerod is the senior independent Director and provides sets out the governance structure of the Board and its Committees.
an alternative to the Chairman as a contact for shareholders who It brings together the matters reserved for the Board, the terms feel their questions are not being addressed through the usual of reference and constitution of each of the Board Committees and channels.
He also chairs the Audit Committee and leads the the specific responsibilities allocated to the Chairman and the annual performance review of the Chairman.
Chief Executive by the Board.
It also prescribes the Board processes Independence for the conduct of meetings, management of information, induction, The non-executive Directors fulfil a vital role in corporate development and performance reviews.
accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear The Code of Conduct is predicated on our values and sets the on issues brought before the Board and its Committees.
They bring foundation for consistent and strong ethical behaviour in all that to the Boards deliberations considerable knowledge and experience we do.
Any member of staff may raise a concern about suspected from other areas of international business and public life.
At least unethical or illegal behaviour via the helpline or via the internal once a year, they meet formally as a group without any executive process.
The Code of Conduct is endorsed by the Chief Executive Directors being present and, in addition, the independent nonand its principles supported by the Board and the executive executive Directors meet informally as a group on a regular basis.
A copy can be found on our website at www.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Board.
The Board has an open style of communication, one which encourages an environment of constructive debate and healthy challenge between Board members.
The governance structure is designed to deliver an effective two way flow of information from the business up to the Board and from the Board back to the business.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 55 Corporate governance report Overview Business review It is the responsibility of the Board to provide leadership and to set The Board meets at least eight times a year and aims to hold two of the strategic direction of the business whilst maintaining oversight those meetings each year overseas.
During the year, overseas Board of its operations and associated risks.
The Chief Executive reports meetings were held in New York and Raleigh where the Allscripts directly to the Board.
He is supported in the management of the business has its operations in the United States.
The March Board business and on the delivery of strategy by a team of senior meeting is combined with a two-day in-depth review of Group executives, including the Chief Financial Officer, who together strategy.
This series of meetings also provides the Directors with an constitute Misys Executive Vice Presidents EVPs.
The EVPs report open forum within which to directly question the senior management directly to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive and the EVPs team on their strategy and business areas and to challenge their meet bi-weekly to review and discuss operational performance and thinking.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board held other matters.
Under the leadership of the Chief Executive, operational a number of ad-hoc meetings during the year as and when required, responsibility for the strategic development of the Group is shared in particular to consider the proposed transaction described above.
between the Chief Executive and the EVPs, with input from other There is regular communication between Board members outside senior managers around the Group.
The EVPs and other senior of the Board process including one on one calls and informal managers as appropriate report to the Board on their progress Board calls to ensure that the Board is kept appraised of matters against the strategy as set by the Board, its businesses, product between meetings.
strategy, partnerships and new opportunities for the Group and any Induction and ongoing development other matters of significance as relevant to the Boards deliberations.
Upon appointment, all new Board members are provided with Non-executive Directors have unfettered access to all areas of a comprehensive induction covering their duties as Directors of the the business and to key management personnel.
Board members Company, the business strategy and plans and recent business are also given the opportunity to meet other staff members and performance.
As part of this process, they will meet with key leaders key senior executives at specific events arranged around Board and senior managers across the business.
offered the opportunity to meet with new Directors should they wish to do so.
During the last 12 months, the Board: The Board is currently developing a programme of ongoing reviewed its overarching governance processes in light of development comprising of a combination of technical and business the changing governance environment updates and externally facilitated programs which the Directors adopted a revised and updated Code of Conduct are invited to attend at their discretion.
These development sessions monitored performance against the turnaround strategy will be embedded within the Board rolling agenda.
including the continuing development and launch of the BankFusion product Review of Board effectiveness reviewed a number of specific opportunities to enhance In April 2010, the Directors conducted a review of the effectiveness shareholder value of the Board, its Committees and the respective chairmen, each reviewed talent and succession planning for senior management of the Directors and the Chief Executive.
The effectiveness review across the Group was facilitated by the Company Secretary and conducted by way improved its processes and oversight of the business through of a detailed questionnaire and discussion with the Chairman and improved risk processes and reporting and the internal audit the senior independent Director, who led the review of the Chairman.
function The results of the effectiveness review were considered by the Board and each Committee respectively at the meetings held in Immediately subsequent to the year end, we: May.
The senior independent Director discussed the results of the review of the Chairman with the non-executive Directors without the announced the proposed disposal of the majority of the Chairman present.
Companys holding in Allscripts and the return of capital to shareholders through a proposed Tender Offer The review concluded that the adoption of the Board governance announced the appointment of Stephen Wilson as framework and the provision of more timely and better quality Chief Financial Officer management information had enhanced its effectiveness.
Risk oversight has improved and the Board is better informed One of the responsibilities of the Chairman is to ensure effective about the risks facing the business.
The Board and each Committee communication around the Board.
This is important to enable the have identified areas for improvement and have adopted plans Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board regularly to monitor progress against the improvement needs identified.
reviews the quality and quantity of the information it receives and recommends adjustments as necessary or advisable.
The Board As part of its effectiveness review, the Board has reviewed the has a forward looking rolling agenda that ensures that it is focused availability of the non-executive Directors, including that of Jeff on and sets the right strategic priorities over the course of the year.
Ubben who is a non-executive Director and is due for re-election at the 2010 AGM, and the Board considers that he continues to be able to devote the necessary amount of time to the business of the Company.
During 2010 11, the Board intends to engage an external party in a review of its effectiveness.
This will give the Board an independent perspective and enable it to benchmark its effectiveness against that of its peers.
56 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements Conflicts of interest During the last 12 months, the Committee: The Board has a formal system in place for the Directors to declare increased oversight of initiatives to strengthen financial controls Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those appointed a new Head of Internal Audit and brought the function Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
back within the business In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the nonupdated its terms of reference strengthening further its oversight conflicted Directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, of the business and associated risks would be most likely to promote the success of the Company and reviewed and updated the External Auditor Non-Audit Services they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, and the Raising Concerns whistle blowing policies and or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational established underlying processes and procedures for each Conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisation given, including the appointment of an external third party host for the are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts confidential raising concerns hotline and web reporting page which is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board has followed pre-approved all non-audit services to be performed by the the prescribed procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, Groups external auditor over 50,000 in accordance with to authorise Situational Conflicts and believes that the systems it has the policy in place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts continue reviewed the treasury authority and control environment to operate effectively.
considered FRC and other relevant guidance throughout the year Board committee framework reviewed work undertaken in connection with the proposed As part of the review of its governance structure, the Board reviewed Allscripts disposal and merger of Allscripts with Eclipsys and updated the structure of its committees and adopted updated More generally, its duties include monitoring the financial reporting terms of reference for each committee, copies of which are available process including reviewing and where necessary challenging on the Companys website.
There are four main Board committees: the integrity of all draft financial information prior to publication the Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination and reporting findings to the Board: to receive reports from the Committee: and the Executive Committee.
There is also a Treasury Groups external and internal auditors: to monitor the Groups risk and Finance Committee a management committee that reports management processes: to oversee and keep under review the directly into the Board.
The oversight role of the Committees and relationship with the Groups external auditor and to monitor their in particular that of the Audit Committee is complemented by the independence: to review the effectiveness and reliability of the internal audit function.
Further details on internal control are provided Groups system of internal control and the internal audit function: in the section below.
Details of membership of the Board committees to review any changes to financial reporting requirements: and are set out earlier in this report.
to consider matters arising from the annual Group audit.
The During the year, as part of the Nomination Committee process Committee reports to the Board on its work at each scheduled the Board reviewed its own composition and that of its Board Board meeting.
It has agreed that following the resignation of The Committee has a detailed rolling agenda that ensures that the Al-Noor Ramji from the Board it will re-examine the membership Committee receives appropriate information far enough in advance of the Board committees as and when any new appointments to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This includes not only to the Board are made.
information from management but also detailed reports from the The Audit Committee is chaired by John Ormerod.
Both the external auditor and from the Head of Internal Audit.
Committee chairman and Philip Rowley have recent and relevant External auditors financial experience.
Following his appointment as EVP, Head of The Committee recognises that the independence of the Groups Banking, Al-Noor Ramji stepped down from the Committee with external auditor is of paramount importance to shareholders and effect from 31 March 2010.
The other member during the year was has established a policy and processes for monitoring and John King.
The Committee met eight times during 2009 10, with approving the nature and the level of related fees for non-audit the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, the Head of services e. g. accounting, tax or due diligence work paid to the Internal Audit and the external auditors,  Group external auditors.
If the external auditor is to be considered LLP PwC, also attending by invitation.
for the provision of non-audit services, their scope of work and fees must be approved in advance by the Chief Financial Officer and the During the year, the Committee met in private session with PwC three times, with the Head of Internal Audit twice and with Committee Secretary and, in the case of fees in excess of 50,000 for a single project, by the Committee or if approval is required the Chief Financial Officer three times.
In addition, the Committee Chairman also has regular meetings with each of PwC, the Head of before the next meeting, by the Committee Chairman.
This will generally involve a competitive tender process unless there are Internal Audit and other senior management as and when required.
compelling commercial or timescale reasons to use the external auditor.
At each meeting, the Committee is advised of any significant non-audit work awarded to the external auditor since the previous meeting and the related fees.
At the July meeting, the Committee receives a full report of fees, both audit and non-audit, from the external auditor for the past financial year.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 57 Corporate governance report Overview Business review In fiscal year 2009 10, non-audit and audit related fees paid to the During the last 12 months, the Committee: external auditor amounted to 4.6m: the bulk of these fees 3.0m exercised oversight of executive succession through the full related to services in connection with the proposed transaction.
On Board at its meeting in November several occasions during the period, the Committee has considered updated its terms of reference in detail the nature and level of non-audit services provided by the agreed the recommendation for the re-appointment of certain external auditor and the related fees.
The Committee challenged Directors at the 2009 AGM and in some instances refused proposals in respect of non-audit considered Board succession plans following the appointment work to be performed by the external auditor but in general accepted of Al-Noor Ramji as an executive to the Company, taking into managements requests to use the external auditor for most of the account the current mix of skills and experience on the Board relevant work on the proposed transaction for a variety of reasons, considered the appointment of an executive Director to the Board including their knowledge of the Group, the audit related nature reviewed its effectiveness of the work and the need to maintain confidentiality.
All non-executive Directors have letters of appointment that allow The Committee has a policy prohibiting the hiring of former for an initial appointment period of three years.
Once a Director employees of the external auditor associated with the Companys has been in office for a period of six years, s he will be subject audit into certain roles within the Group within two years following to a rigorous review by the Nomination Committee before being their association with the audit, unless the Chairman of the Audit recommended for re-appointment.
Annually, the Committee is advised of any new hires caught by this policy.
No such circumstances arose Directors retire from office and are nominated for election or in the year ended 31 May 2010. re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Articles of Association rotation provisions.
Consequently, Mike Lawrie and Jeff Ubben The Committee monitors on an ongoing basis the relationship will both retire at the 2010 AGM and seek re-election.
with the external auditor to ensure its continuing independence, objectivity and effectiveness.
By reference to the external auditors The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John King.
Details litigation record, financial assets, structure of the firm and the level of the Committees main functions, Directors remuneration and the of its professional indemnity insurance cover, the Committee Groups remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report.
determines the external auditors financial stability and assesses the likelihood of its being able to meet any liabilities arising from The Executive Committee is chaired by Mike Lawrie.
It is comprised the audit engagement.
of three or more Directors including the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
It facilitates and assists the Chief Executive in making It is considered that the external auditor has carried out its decisions on how best to progress the strategy or objectives set obligations in an effective and appropriate manner and on that by the Board of Directors between meetings of the Board.
The basis a proposal will be made for its re-appointment at the AGM.
Committee focuses in particular, but not exclusively, on business development opportunities which enhance value for shareholders.
The Committee also interacts with the Remuneration Committee The Committee may only operate within the authorities general in respect of compensation policies, risks and practices for senior and specific delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive and executives of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the has no authority to change strategy or objectives set by the Board.
current policies and practices are appropriate and consistent with good governance and the long-term objectives of the Company.
Treasury and Finance Committee The Treasury and Finance Committee is chaired by the Chief Financial As a result of its work during the year, the Committee has concluded Officer.
It was formed during the year as part of the review of the that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and governance structure and is comprised of the previous Treasury has ensured as far as practically possible the independence Committee and the General Purposes Committee.
It is a management of the external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee intends committee that reports into the Board.
Its duties among other things to be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work include oversight of treasury policy and arrangements, monitoring of the Committee.
of pension plan funding and to review and approve the insurance The Nomination Committee is chaired by James Crosby.
It consists arrangements for the Group with the exception of the D&O Insurance arrangements which are approved by the Board.
of all the independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is consulted on all matters of Board succession and has a standing invitation to attend.
The Committee met twice during 2009 10.
It leads the procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and considers the ongoing succession of the Board and its Committees making recommendations to the Board for appointments as appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference are to oversee the search and selection process for new Directors having due regard to the current composition of the Board, ongoing succession and existing skills of Directors.
58 Misys plc | Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Financial statements The attendance record of Directors at Board and Committee meetings Internal control held during the year is as follows: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which covers all aspects of the business, and for reviewing its Audit Remuneration Nomination effectiveness.
In recognition of this responsibility, the Board sets Director Board Committee Committee Committee policies and seeks assurance that the system of internal control is Sir James Crosby 14 14 5 6 1 2 operating effectively.
The system of internal control, which covers Sir Dominic Cadbury strategic, operational, financial and compliance areas, is designed to support the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategies retired 30 Sept 2009 4 4 3 3 1 1 and to identify, evaluate and manage the related risks.
M Lawrie 14 14 J G King 14 14 8 8 6 6 2 2 The Groups system of internal control, and the review of its J Ormerod 13 14 8 8 6 6 2 2 effectiveness, are in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
A Ramji resigned 31 March 2010 12 12 4 7 3 5 1 1 During the year, the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness J Ubben 14 14 of the system of internal control on behalf of the Board, to which it P Rowley 14 14 8 8 6 6 2 2 regularly reports.
It carried out this review principally by means of discussions with management on significant risks: a specific review Figures in brackets indicate the maximum possible number of meetings each Director of plans for, and the results of, internal and external audit work: and could have attended during the period.
Al-Noor Ramji did not attend Board Committee meetings whilst he was in discussions to join the Company as EVP, Head of Banking.
The Board considers the findings of the Audit Committee and determines where there are any significant internal All the Directors then in office attended the 2009 AGM with the control failings or weaknesses that need to be addressed ensures exception of Jeff Ubben who was unable to attend due to other that appropriate action is taken.
The following section summarises the Groups system of internal Relations with shareholders control, which comprises a number of distinct individual processes The Company strongly believes in the importance of building and procedures that, when taken together, provide reasonable, a strong relationship with its investors.
The Chief Executive and the but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Chief Financial Officer hold briefing meetings with financial analysts and institutional shareholders, including presentations following Risk management the interim and final results announcements, and their views are A risk management process has been developed by the Group communicated to the Board.
which identifies, evaluates and manages the key strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks that are considered Periodically, business and market briefings are held to ensure important to the Group.
This process involves a formal semi-annual that the analysts and investing community receive a broader view exercise facilitated by Internal Audit to review and update the key of the Groups operations and the issues faced by the business.
The results of this exercise are presented For example, in March 2010 we launched our BankFusion product to the Board for review and consideration.
As part of this process, to investors and analysts and a series of investor presentations were a separate risk assessment is also performed for the Allscripts held when we announced the proposed Allscripts transaction.
The business and is incorporated into the overall Group risk assessment.
Chairman, the senior independent Director and the non-executive Directors are also available to meet with shareholders on request.
The business risks and controls are evaluated by executive management who determine which risks, in their opinion, are the We also engage fully with our private investors through the most significant to the Group overall.
Relevant senior executives Companys website www.
com, the Annual Report and are given responsibility to deal with any items requiring action and financial statements, the interim report, the interim management decisions are then taken as to the most appropriate method of statements and the AGM.
The Audit Committee also considers any significant control matters raised in reports from management and All the Directors aim to attend the AGM, which provides shareholders the internal and the external auditors and reports its findings to the with the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board.
Where weaknesses are identified, the Audit Committee The Company responds as necessary to enquiries from individual requires appropriate action to be taken by management and may shareholders on a wide range of issues.
request that Internal Audit perform a specific review into the areas of weakness as required.
All of our communications with shareholders are conducted in line with our environmental approach.
We hold the majority of our events Strategic planning and succession planning via webcast and conference calls and we encourage all of our private Annually, the Board participates in a strategic planning review investors to receive communications via e-communications.
Please prepared by executive management and they also undertake visit our website to view previous presentations, webcasts and a review of the strength of the senior management team and the documents.
Further details are contained in the Investor information associated succession planning in place.
The strategic review section at the back of this Annual Report.
considers the economic climate, the market and other factors affecting the ongoing performance and plans for the Group.
This review provides the overall framework for business planning and, together with the annual review of talent, which takes place in November each year, considers the resources needed to deliver the Groups plans.
Annual Report 2010 | Misys plc 59 Corporate governance report Overview Business review Financial monitoring and reporting Compliance certificates are completed by each business units The Board approves an annual operating budget.
The Group general manager and the Chief Financial Officer who are required operates a system of regular forecasts of expected performance to certify in writing compliance or identify cases of non-compliance against the budget and these are reviewed by executive with the Groups policies and procedures, including the internal management and the Board.
The actual results, including key financial control and raising concerns policies.
Local finance performance indicators, are reported on a monthly basis and the managers are required to certify that accounts are prepared in monthly and cumulative results are compared with the budget, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS the latest forecast and with the prior year results.
During the year, the Group strengthened its internal financial The Groups principal subsidiary, Allscripts, is listed on NASDAQ, controls through a number of initiatives, including restructuring our requiring it to comply with a number of financial reporting global finance organisation.
This involved, for example, increased responsibilities to its shareholders governed by the US Securities off-shoring of financial transaction processing to Shared Service Exchange Act 1934.
These additional responsibilities include Centres in Bangalore and Manila and the development of a single publicly reporting that the controls existing within Allscripts over Group Analysis & Reporting Function.
A semi-annual management external financial reporting have been documented and tested self assessment and certification process against the requirements in accordance with the requirements of s. 404 of the US Sarbanesof the Groups Accounting and Controls Manual was introduced Oxley Act 2002.
The Misys Chief Executive chairs the Allscripts on a quarterly basis.
All units report any items which may have Board and he is joined on that Board by one of Misyss independent a significant impact on the results of the business or where the non-executive Directors and the Misys Chief Financial Officer.
accounting treatment may be subjective or an alternative accounting They are able to assess the quality of the internal controls based treatment may exist.
These items are reviewed by the central finance on discussion with Allscripts executives and the information and team and the external auditors and are reported to the Audit reports received.
Regular meetings also take place between the Committee.
This process has enhanced the visibility of large and or Misys Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and the Allscripts unusual items in the accounts and ensured that the accounting leadership team to consider strategy, operational matters and treatments are properly reviewed and agreed.
were made in working capital and cash management monitoring Internal audit and reporting procedures.
In addition, the Group strengthened The Internal Audit function was previously outsourced to KPMG its procedures for monitoring exposures and reviewing its foreign but in October 2009 the Group appointed a Head of Internal Audit.
currency hedging strategy to mitigate risk.
The Treasury Committee The Head of Internal Audit facilitates the Groups risk management was disbanded and a new Finance and Treasury Committee was process.
This is approved by the Audit Committee and forms the formed during the year to review and approve relevant treasury basis of the risk-based internal audit plan.
Other improvements in financial controls were also introduced as a result of the work of a Controls Improvement The reviews performed by Internal Audit, as part of its annual plan, Steering Group which was established during the year.
In addition provide objective assurance over the processes and controls in to the above, the Internal Audit function was brought back within place to manage selected key risks, making recommendations for the business and refocused on financial control matters.
business and control improvements as required.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up by Delegated authorities the Internal Audit function and reviewed with the Audit Committee A clearly defined management and organisational structure has to ensure that the required actions are implemented and that been established with defined responsibilities retained by the satisfactory control is maintained.
Meetings are held periodically Board.
Furthermore, there are established limits of authority between the Audit Committee and the Head of Internal Audit at which delegated to management at both Group and business unit level executive management is not present.
On an annual basis, the for the approval of major development projects and contractual Audit Committee reviews the remit and effectiveness of the Internal and other commitments relating to revenue and capital expenditure.
Authority levels are reviewed periodically and are approved by the Board, executive management and or the business units Summary and conclusion as appropriate The process and systems described above have been in place during the financial year ended 31 May 2010 or were adopted during Investment appraisals the year in response to changes in the risk profile and remained Potential capital investment or acquisition opportunities are in place up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report reviewed rigorously against the Groups requirement for investment and Accounts.
return, growth potential and normal terms and conditions prior to contractual commitment.
On behalf of the Board System of operating unit control procedures Tom Kilroy Business unit performance and internal control are monitored by Company Secretary regular business unit management meetings.
Financial controls 26 July 2010 and procedures are detailed in a Group Finance Manual which has been updated during the year.
Central and regional finance functions perform an oversight monitoring role and this has been strengthened in the year to focus on high risk areas such as treasury and cash management.
