qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 48 Corporate governance report Introduction from joint chairmen Dual listed company structure Through the work of the DLC Board being the boards of Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and the DLC committees, which requires compliance with the corporate and accounting an environment of compliance and ethical behaviour is regulations of South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited and created with approved policies and procedures clearly Mondi plc together the Mondi Group or Mondi have communicated throughout the Group.
separate corporate identities and separate stock exchange listings.
Mondi Limited has a primary listing on the Mondis DLC structure requires compliance with the JSE Limited JSE, while Mondi plc has a premium listing on governance codes of both South Africa and the UK.
With the London Stock Exchange and a secondary listing on the new governance codes issued in both jurisdictions that will JSE.
Under the DLC structure, any ordinary share held in apply to Mondi for its 2011 financial year, 2010 has either Mondi Limited or Mondi plc gives the holder an necessitated a focus by the Boards on how best to effective economic interest in the whole Mondi Group.
implement the principles of both codes in a way that ensures Mondi continues to meet best practice.
The Boards have The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc is reviewed the new requirements in detail and have instigated underpinned by the DLC structure principles, which provide that: changes to procedures and practices to ensure compliance Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must as far as practicable for Mondi under its DLC structure.
The operate as if they are a single corporate group: and few areas of potential non-compliance have been given the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in further consideration to ensure that existing practices addition to their duties to the company concerned, have continue to provide appropriate and effective governance.
regard to the interests of the Mondi Limited shareholders Early adoption of the new principles has been encouraged and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the two companies where possible.
For example, all directors will be standing were a single unified economic enterprise and for that for re-election at the 2011 annual general meetings and an purpose the directors of each company will take into externally facilitated board evaluation process was undertaken account, in the exercise of their powers, the interests in 2010.
We trust the report below provides an insight into of the shareholders of the other.
The DLC structure requires Mondi to comply with the The Boards devote time to monitoring and reviewing critical disclosure obligations forming part of the Listings aspects of the Groups operations.
For example, reports have been received by the Boards at every meeting during the Requirements of the JSE Limited and the Disclosure and period leading up to the commissioning of the major projects Transparency Rules, Listing Rules and Prospectus Rules of in Poland and Russia, with on-going feedback on progress the UK Listing Authority.
The Boards review and monitor the since commissioning: the funding strategy is reviewed on a procedures that are in place to ensure compliance and have quarterly basis: and safety performance is reviewed at every agreed to apply on each issue whichever is the higher meeting.
standard of governance and regulation between South Africa and the UK.
Mondi remains committed to strong ethical values and professionalism in all its activities and the Boards support the Compliance statement highest standards of corporate governance and best practice Mondi has complied throughout the year with the principles and are committed to the principles of transparency, integrity contained in the South African King II Code of Corporate and accountability.
Practices and Conduct available at www.
co. za and Section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Cyril Ramaphosa Governance 2008 issued by the Financial Reporting Council Joint chairman available at www.
uk save that Cyril Ramaphosa, the David Williams joint chairman, was not considered independent upon Joint chairman appointment, as explained below.
48 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 49 The South African King III Code of Corporate Governance On appointment each non-executive director receives letters Principles available at www.
co. za, published in of appointment from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc September 2009 and the UK Corporate Governance Code setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, available at www.
uk, published in June 2010, are the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and effective for financial years commencing on or after 1 March details of any DLC committees of which they are a member.
Although the Mondi Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three year Group is not therefore required to report on its compliance term after which their appointment may be extended for a with either new code until its 2011 annual report, the Boards second term subject to mutual agreement.
have already reviewed the codes and have applied certain of The directors holding office during the year ended the principles that are reported on below.
31 December 2010 are listed below, together with their Boards of directors attendance at Board meetings held during the year.
Those in office as at the date of this report, together with their Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have boards of directors biographical details, can be found on pages 44 to 46. comprising the same individuals.
This enables the effective management of the dual listed structure as a single unified During the year there were six combined DLC Mondi Limited economic enterprise with due consideration being given to and Mondi plc meetings in accordance with the DLC the interests of the ordinary shareholders of both Mondi Limited structure and arrangements.
In addition, each company held and Mondi plc.
an additional meeting to cover specific local requirements.
All Board meetings are convened by formal notice, incorporating As at 31 December 2010 there were nine directors: the a detailed agenda.
joint chairmen, three executive directors and four nonexecutive directors.
Each of the four non-executive There is a schedule of matters reserved for the Boards.
This directors are considered by the Boards to be independent is reviewed annually and is available on the Mondi Group as defined in the governance codes of South Africa and the website at www.
In view of the broad nature UK.
There is a strong mix of skills and industry experience, of the Boards responsibilities certain specific duties have particularly in Europe and South Africa, locations important been delegated to committees as detailed below.
Mondi Limited Mondi plc Board board board DLC board member one one six Directors Position Independent since meeting meeting meetings 1 Cyril Ramaphosa Joint chairman No May 2007 116 David Williams Joint chairman Yes May 2007 1 1 6 1 David Hathorn Chief executive officer No May 2007 116 Andrew King Chief financial officer No October 2008 1 1 6 Colin Matthews Non-executive director Yes May 2007 1 1 6 Imogen Mkhize Non-executive director Yes May 2007 1 1 6 John Nicholas Non-executive director Yes October 2009 1 1 6 Peter Oswald Chief executive officer, No January 2008 1 1 6 Europe & International Division Anne Quinn Senior independent Yes May 2007 1 1 6 non-executive director 1 Cyril Ramaphosa and David Hathorn were appointed directors of Mondi Limited in December 2004 and May 1997, respectively.
Mondi Group 49 Directors report Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 50 Corporate governance report continued Having emerged in robust financial health from the primarily consider the performance and actions of the challenging economic environment of 2009, during 2010 the executive management.
Boards have refocused on the longer term strategic priorities A policy is in place pursuant to which each director may and direction for the Group.
A key area of focus has been obtain independent professional advice at Mondis expense defining the longer term growth objectives for the Group in the furtherance of their duties as a director of either following the successful completion of the two major strategic Mondi Limited or Mondi plc.
No requests were received capital expenditure projects in Poland and Russia.
Boards continue to focus on the need to manage risk, to provide oversight and challenge to management, to protect Throughout the year to 31 December 2010, in line with the Groups assets and to ensure that the Group operates market practice, Mondi maintained directors and officers within a framework of robust risk management, corporate liability insurance.
Joint chairmen and chief executive Management and advisers present to the Boards on a variety officer of topics in accordance with both the annual rolling programme agreed by the Boards and on an ad hoc basis at Mondi has joint chairmen, Cyril Ramaphosa and David the request of the Boards in response to any concern or Williams, with the chief executive officer role held separately change in circumstances or regulation.
Periodically the by David Hathorn.
The division of responsibilities between the Groups brokers will attend board meetings to update the joint chairmen and the chief executive officer has been clearly directors on the views of investors and in particular to provide defined and approved by the Boards.
feedback from the roadshows undertaken by management after the full and half-yearly results announcements.
The principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen include to: lead the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness and setting In addition, the Groups legal advisers attend certain their agenda: meetings to provide updates on changes in regulation ensure high standards of corporate governance: impacting the Group and affecting the duties of directors.
ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate The chairmen of each committee report regularly to the strategy for the Group: and Boards on matters considered by the committees to ensure ensure effective communication with shareholders and that the Boards have all relevant information to enable them other stakeholders.
The principal responsibilities of the chief executive officer In accordance with the matters reserved for the Boards, a include to: number of other regular reviews of shareholder matters and lead the business: the implementation of Group policies, including the code of chair the DLC executive committee and lead the business ethics and the share dealing code, have been management team: considered.
Also, consideration of the business plan and ensure that the Group has effective processes and budget, the annual financial statements and regularly reported controls: and results under advice from the DLC audit committee, ensure that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear succession planning under advice from the DLC nominations information about the Groups performance.
committee, listing requirements, governance and a variety of The joint chairmen and chief executive officer work together Group policy matters have been reviewed and debated.
to ensure that there is effective co-ordination of their roles Communication between directors outside the formal and responsibilities.
In particular, they work closely together meetings is provided to them in hard copy, by e-mail and on matters such as the relationships with major telephone, as appropriate to the circumstances.
shareholders, government, analysts, media and other external relationships at a senior level and on major Non-executive director meetings, chaired by the joint acquisitions and disposals.
chairmen except when their performance is being considered, are held twice a year.
One meeting has no The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other executive management in attendance and one is attended by and manage the Boards through mutual agreement.
Half the the chief executive officer.
The meeting agendas vary but board meetings are held in South Africa and these will usually 50 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 51 be chaired by Cyril Ramaphosa, with David Williams chairing changes, including the provision of advice on the the remaining meetings held in Europe.
performance of directors duties and the continuing obligations of the stock exchanges on which Mondi is listed.
David Hathorn, chief executive officer, does not hold any This has continued to be important as regulation and directorships external to Mondi.
The main positions held by governance in both South Africa and the UK has changed Cyril Ramaphosa and David Williams outside the Mondi during 2010.
Group are detailed in their biographies set out on page 44.
In Under the direction of the joint chairmen, the company July 2010 Cyril Ramaphosa was appointed a non-executive secretaries manage the provision of information and director of Lonmin plc, whilst David Williams relinquished his documentation to the Boards.
In particular, meeting papers directorship of Taylor Wimpey plc in March 2010.
The Boards are issued one week in advance thereby allowing directors continue to consider that the chairmens external sufficient time to prepare fully for any Board or committee directorships do not interfere with the time they devote to meetings.
Mondi, with both having made themselves available to management and other directors when required.
Induction and professional development Whilst David Williams was independent upon appointment, Cyril Ramaphosa was not considered independent upon An induction programme has been developed that is tailored appointment in view of his existing connection with Mondi as to the individual upon appointment.
The programme includes chairman of the Shanduka Group, which has shareholdings in meetings with divisional business unit executives and other Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary Limited and Mondi members of the DLC executive committee, site visits and Packaging South Africa Proprietary Limited see page 144. meetings with key advisers, in particular the external auditors.
Notwithstanding this, Mondi benefits greatly from his In addition, a briefing from one of the company secretaries is considerable knowledge and experience, particularly of the provided on the DLC structure and its implications for the South African business environment, and the Boards firmly Boards, as well as the corporate governance issues in South believe that this justifies his appointment.
In addition, David Africa and the UK affecting the Group, directors duties and Williams, together with the four independent non-executive continuing obligations of the stock exchange listings.
The directors, provides the required level of independent company secretaries provide all directors with a handbook oversight.
Cyril excuses himself from any board level containing the committee terms of reference and key Group discussions involving matters in which he may have an policies together with other material to assist them in interest through the Shanduka Group.
understanding and fulfilling their duties.
This is regularly reviewed and updated.
Senior independent director Site visits have been arranged where the opportunity arises in Anne Quinn is the senior independent director providing conjunction with Board meetings.
In November 2010 the support to the joint chairmen.
During the year she has chaired Boards visited Syktyvkar in Russia to view the recently a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the modernised mill and the forestry operations.
John Nicholas performance of the joint chairmen was considered.
She is also made a site visit to the Groups mill at Merebank in South also available to shareholders should they have any concerns Africa in August 2010.
In addition, opportunities to introduce that contact through other channels has failed to resolve or the Boards to local management teams are taken, utilising for which such contact may be inappropriate.
No such site visits, meetings and board presentations.
All the directors requests were received during the year.
participated in the Mondi senior management conference held in Budapest in May 2010, meeting the top 120 senior Company secretaries executives.
These are useful opportunities for the directors to Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited meet Group employees below executive management who and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
The feature in the Groups succession plans.
appointment and removal of the company secretaries is a matter for the Boards.
All directors have access to the advice Regular updates on developments in governance and and services of the company secretaries.
Throughout the year regulation are provided to the Boards by the company the company secretaries have ensured compliance with the secretaries and external advisers.
In addition, function correct board procedures.
They report at each board meeting specialists present at board meetings at regular intervals.
on relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters and Directors are also made aware of, and attend, relevant Mondi Group 51 Directors report Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 52 Corporate governance report continued external training courses, workshops and seminars which The review of the performance of the joint chairmen was led support their position on the Boards or on a committee.
by Anne Quinn, as senior independent director, at a meeting of the non-executive directors.
It was concluded that Cyril It is acknowledged that valuable experience can be gained Ramaphosa and David Williams working together provide by executive directors serving as non-executive directors on the Group with sound leadership based on many years of the boards of other companies.
The Boards have in place experience and knowledge of international organisations.
a policy setting out the parameters for such appointments.
Procedure for conflicts of interest The executive directors must seek the prior approval of the Boards on the appropriateness of any proposed appointment Company law and the articles of association of both Mondi and ensure that the number of any such commitments is Limited and Mondi plc allow directors to authorise potential contained, with the respective time commitments conflicts.
Procedures are in place to manage such situations.
A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of directorships held that are external to Mondi.
The procedures include the following: Peter Oswald is currently the only executive director holding an initial review by the company secretaries of the details an external position, being a non-executive director of of any potential conflicts of interest, or changes to Telekom Austria AG.
His current fee is set at E15,000 per previously authorised conflicts, notified by a director and annum plus a meeting attendance allowance that totaled presentation of the facts to the Boards for consideration: E3,000 for the year.
an unconflicted quorum of the Boards consider, in accordance with the articles of association and their other Performance evaluation statutory duties, the details and, where considered appropriate, authorise the potential conflict.
The director is During the year the action plan from the previous evaluation advised of the outcome and the scope and limitations of was reviewed to ensure that the objectives set were being the authorisation, where applicable: achieved.
One proposal from the 2009 evaluation was to a record is maintained of all authorisations given, including consider an externally facilitated evaluation for 2010. the scope and any limitations to such authorisations: and all authorisations are reviewed on an annual basis by the Following a review of different advisers, Boardroom Review, Boards to ensure that it is appropriate for the relevant UK consultants specialising in board evaluations, was matter to remain authorised.
engaged as the independent external facilitator for the 2010 performance evaluation.
Boardroom Review undertook oneDLC committees to-one interviews with each director and certain other key personnel who provide support and advice to the Boards and The DLC committees, to which the Boards delegate specific committees.
The evaluation also included observation of the areas of responsibility as described below, have authority to Boards and committees in session, and a review of certain make decisions according to their terms of reference.
Work administrative processes that support the Boards.
The results programmes are agreed by each committee that are of the review were presented to and discussed by the Boards designed around the annual business calendar and their in January 2011. respective terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available The recommendations from the evaluation focused on some on the Mondi Group website at: www.
com or on key themes around which the Boards have formulated an request.
The committees are empowered, through their terms action plan.
These included: of reference, to seek independent professional advice at the approach to executive succession planning: Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
deciding board composition priorities for the future: and Whilst only committee members are entitled to attend formalising a non-executive director development programme.
committee meetings, the chairmen of each committee can Having considered the feedback from the evaluation the invite, as they consider appropriate, management and Boards have concluded that the Boards and committees advisers to meetings to provide information, answer questions operate effectively and consider that each director is and generally to assist the committees in carrying out their maximising their contribution and demonstrating commitment duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a whole have an to their role.
understanding of any key issues under consideration by a 52 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 53 committee, each committee chairman provides a report to the business development roles.
The committee has also Boards following each committee meeting.
considered and satisfied itself of the appropriateness of the expertise and adequacy of resources of the finance function The company secretaries of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and expertise of the senior management responsible for the each act as secretary to each of the DLC committees.
The membership of each of the DLC committees, together The committee has responsibility, among other things, for with attendance at each of the committee meetings held monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements during the year, is detailed below.
and reviewing the results announcements.
In fulfilling this responsibility the committee considers significant financial DLC audit committee reporting judgements made by management, taking into DLC audit account the reports received from the Group financial Committee committee controller and the external auditors and considers the Members member since four meetings compliance of the financial statements with International Colin Matthews May 2007 4 Financial Reporting Standards.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal John Nicholas chairman October 2009 4 controls and risk management systems, details of which can Anne Quinn May 2007 4 be found on pages 30 to 33 of this annual report.
At least once during each financial year the committee meets with The DLC audit committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
the internal and the external auditors, separately, without The committee met four times during the year and has four executive management present.
This provides an additional meetings scheduled for 2011.
The meetings are planned opportunity for an open exchange of views and feedback.
around the Groups financial reporting cycle.
The Group heads of internal audit and representatives from the external The committee operates under formal terms of reference and auditors, Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP, are regularly these are reviewed annually.
The committee considers that it in attendance at meetings.
The chief executive officer and has discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of chief financial officer attend by invitation, as do other reference to the extent appropriate during the year.
Specific personnel from key finance functions.
For example, the matters reviewed by the committee during 2010 included: Group financial controller reports to the committee on the reviewing the integrity of the Mondi Group half-yearly half-yearly and full year financial results.
results and full year results, including reports from the Group financial controller and the external auditors on All members of the committee are independent non-executive those results: directors.
They each have relevant financial, accounting or consideration, and recommendation to the Boards, of the similar experience from current or past employment.
The implementation of significant accounting policies for the Boards consider each member has appropriate knowledge 2010 financial year: and understanding of financial matters, sufficient to enable reviewing the annual report: them to consider effectively the financial and accounting reviewing and approving the external audit plan, the proposed issues that are presented to the committee.
The Boards fees for the 2010 year-end and the engagement letters: consider John Nicholas, DLC audit committee chairman, to reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of have specific recent and relevant financial experience.
He is the external auditors and considering their re-appointment: a chartered accountant and a member of the UK Financial monitoring the effectiveness of the risk management Reporting Review Panel.
He was formerly the group finance process, including the review of specific Group risks both director of Tate & Lyle plc and is currently the audit committee through the annual review of all key Group risks identified chairman of Ceres Power Holdings plc, Hunting PLC and and a more detailed review of at least two of those risks at Rotork p. l. c.. each meeting: and specifically reviewing information technology risk management: In accordance with the JSE Listings Requirements, the DLC audit committee has satisfied itself that Andrew King, monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups system of Mondis chief financial officer, has the appropriate expertise internal controls: and experience.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and reviewing the non-audit services policy and the services throughout his career has held various finance and approved: Mondi Group 53 Directors report Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 54 Corporate governance report continued monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP were appointed as activities, which included: a review of the internal audit Mondis external auditors at the time of the demerger of charter: audits carried out, the results thereof and Mondi from Anglo American plc in July 2007 and are familiar managements response: the programme for 2010 and with the reporting complexities arising from the Groups dual 2011: reports received via Speakout the Groups whistlelisted company structure.
As such, the DLC audit committee blowing facility : and reports on fraud: does not consider that it would be appropriate at this time to commissioning and reviewing the output from an external put the audit out to tender, but will continue to keep this review of the internal audit function: under review.
The committee confirmed that Deloitte & reviewing the effectiveness and experience of the chief Touche are included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
financial officer and the finance function: Following these considerations the committee made a reviewing the competition compliance programme: recommendation to, which was accepted by, the Boards that reviewing elements of the Groups code of business ethics: resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP reviewing the audit and risk management activities of the be proposed at the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited Groups South African widely held companies: and Mondi plc, respectively, to be held in May 2011. a review of new regulations and governance introduced in South Africa regarding the operation and responsibilities of A policy that formalises the arrangements regarding the audit committees: and provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors of a review of the terms of reference of the committee, its Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc to the Group sets out the performance against those terms and the 2011 work procedures for the pre-approval of such services.
All nonprogramme for the committee.
audit services provided by the auditors are pre-approved by either the Group chief financial officer or the DLC audit The DLC audit committee oversees the relationship with the committee chairman under delegated approval authorities external auditors: is responsible for their appointment, from the DLC audit committee.
The policy also details those reappointment and remuneration: reviews the effectiveness of non-audit services that are prohibited, including financial the external audit process: and ensures that the objectivity information systems design, internal audit outsourcing and and independence of the external auditors is maintained.
Reports are presented to the Representatives from Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP committee at each meeting detailing any non-audit services report to the committee on their independence and objectivity approved since the previous meeting, to enable the and the mechanisms employed to ensure this is maintained.
committee to monitor the provision of these services to ensure that they do not impair the external auditors In considering the effectiveness of the external audit the independence and objectivity.
Whilst there remain a number committee has taken into account feedback received from of historical matters where the external auditors will continue management involved with the audit, in particular the chief to be used, it is anticipated that the level of such services financial officer and Group financial controller.
In addition the will diminish over time.
The breakdown of the fees paid to committee reviewed directly with Deloitte the work the external auditors, including the split between audit and undertaken against the agreed plan, questioning any non-audit fees, is included in note 3 on page 98 to the deviations from the plan and the reasons for this.
concern to the committee is the assessment of the way in which certain key accounting and audit judgements have The heads of internal audit have direct access and been made and the auditors report on the systems of responsibility to the DLC audit committee and work closely internal control, these are reported on by Deloitte to the with the committee in co-ordination with the external auditors.
committee who then have the opportunity to question them The committee reviews the activities of the internal audit on their responses and findings.
There are also Group policies function at each meeting.
The internal audit reports include in place regarding the employment of ex-audit staff and the details of audits carried out, the results and managements provision of non-audit services.
response to matters raised during the audits, and fraud and The committee, having considered all relevant matters, has whistle-blowing.
Maintaining sound oversight and control of activities through the use of internal audit reviews is concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence, objectivity and effectiveness have been maintained.
considered by the committee to be a key element of its work.
54 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 55 The structure and resources of the internal audit function are given to the time commitment required from each director and also regularly reviewed.
During 2010,  those directors to stand for re-election at the annual general carried out a review of the internal audit function at the request meetings.
Having effected a change in the composition of the Boards and committees during the latter part of 2009, no of the committee, the results of which were presented to the further changes were deemed necessary in 2010. committee.
The report concluded that the internal audit function was considered to have appropriate access to the A key area of consideration for the committee at the end of chairman of the committee and the chief financial officer: the 2010 and for 2011 is non-executive director succession heads of internal audit were considered to be independent planning to ensure that the Boards have the appropriate skills and objective: the function was appropriately resourced: and and experience to continue to manage the challenges of the internal audit generally complied with all 11 International Group.
With the majority of independent directors having Internal Audit Standards.
been appointed in 2007 at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc, it is recognised that a clear DLC nominations committee succession plan enabling a smooth change of directors over DLC time is required.
This should ensure minimum disturbance to nominations the stability and continuity of the Boards.
Independent Committee committee external search consultants will be engaged to assist with Members member since five meetings finding replacement directors in line with an agreed process.
Colin Matthews January 2008 5 Imogen Mkhize January 2008 5 Having considered the recent changes in governance best John Nicholas October 2009 5 practice the committee has determined that all directors Anne Quinn May 2007 5 should stand for re-election at the next annual general Cyril Ramaphosa May 2007 5 meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
This David Williams chairman May 2007 5 recommendation was endorsed by the Boards.
DLC remuneration committee The DLC nominations committee operates on a Groupwide basis.
The committee meets periodically as required to DLC discharge its duties, but a minimum of twice per annum, and remuneration met five times during the year.
The chief executive officer is Committee committee invited to attend meetings and provides information to Members member since four meetings support the work of the committee.
Colin Matthews May 2007 4 Imogen Mkhize May 2007 4 The committee is responsible for making recommendations to Anne Quinn chairman May 2007 4 the Boards on the composition of each board and committee and on retirements and appointments of additional and David Williams May 2007 4 replacement directors.
Ensuring that the required balance of skills, experience and knowledge are maintained.
Whilst one The DLC remuneration committee operates on a Group-wide of the joint chairmen chairs this committee, he is not basis.
The committee met four times during the year and permitted to chair meetings during discussions regarding his plans to meet three times in 2011 with additional meetings performance or when the appointment of a successor is convened as required.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations The committee implemented the board evaluation process to each board on the Groups policy on the remuneration of that was externally facilitated in 2010 by Boardroom Review.
senior management, for the determination, within agreed The outcome of the review, as explained in more detail above, terms of reference, of the remuneration of the joint chairmen was considered by the committee and an action plan and of specific remuneration packages for each of the recommended to the Boards.
executive directors and members of senior management, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
In A number of regular matters were reviewed by the committee in accordance with its terms of reference.
In particular, the addition, the committee is responsible for the implementation succession planning was debated and consideration was of employee share plans.
Mondi Group 55 Directors report Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 56 Corporate governance report continued The committees full report on directors remuneration, The DLC executive committee is responsible for the day-toincluding details of the Groups remuneration policies and day management of the Group and its business operations practices, is set out on pages 58 to 66. within the limits set by the Boards, with particular focus on financial, operational and safety performance, together with DLC sustainable development committee policy implementation in line with the Groups strategy agreed by the Boards.
DLC sustainable Communication with shareholders development Committee committee Ensuring that shareholders, be they institutional, private or Members member since six meetings employee shareholders, receive accurate and timely David Hathorn May 2007 6 information about the Groups financial performance, operational and development activities, sufficient for them to Colin Matthews chairman May 2007 6 make an informed judgement regarding their investments is Anne Quinn August 2009 6 considered by the Boards to be extremely important.
To this end a variety of communication mechanisms are used, with the Mondi Group website providing a range of financial and The DLC sustainable development committee operates on a business information about the Group, including an archive of Group-wide basis.
The committee met six times during the past announcements and share price information as well as year and plans to meet six times in 2011.
The committee has the Groups sustainability activities and practices.
responsibility for overseeing the Groups policy, targets and performance on safety, health, the environment, social During the year the chief executive officer and chief financial responsibility, other sustainable development matters and officer have continued a programme of regular dialogue with business ethics.
institutional shareholders, analysts and fund managers, based around the Groups financial reporting calendar.
Investors are During the year the committee reviewed the Groups key also regularly offered the opportunity to speak directly with sustainable development policies, monitored performance the joint chairmen.
Periodically site visits are arranged to help against environmental targets, received detailed safety increase the knowledge and understanding of the Group.
In reports including details of major incidents within the November 2010, visits were arranged to Syktyvkar, Russia Group and monitored the senior managements response and Swiecie, Poland where major capital expenditure projects to such incidents.
were completed in September 2010 and September 2009, respectively.
Summaries of the feedback from these A summary report from the directors on the Groups discussions, meetings and site visits were presented to the sustainability practices is set out on pages 34 to 43 and Boards.
The Boards also receive feedback directly from further details, including a full review of Mondis sustainability brokers and advisers which enables them to gain a clear activities and progress in 2010, can be found on the Mondi understanding of the views and opinions of those interested Group website.
In addition, the Boards are supported by the Group corporate affairs manager.
All contact with investors DLC executive committee and other interested parties is strictly controlled through the The DLC executive committee operates on a Group-wide application of Group guidelines to ensure that no price basis.
The members of the DLC executive committee are sensitive information is made available on a selective basis detailed on page 47.
The committee is chaired by David and that all shareholders are treated equally.
Financial reports, Hathorn and met nine times during the year, with ten trading updates and news about the business operations are meetings scheduled for 2011. available to all shareholders on the Mondi Group website.
56 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R2 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:50 AM Page 57 The Group head of sustainable development maintains a Business ethics dialogue on socially responsible investment through focused The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which briefings with interested investors and stakeholders.
applies throughout the Group and sets clear principles for the conduct of the Groups business activities.
The code has five Throughout the year responses are given to letters and key elements, three of which are monitored and reviewed by e-mails received from shareholders and other interested the DLC sustainable development committee human rights, parties on a variety of subjects.
Shareholders may choose to stakeholders and sustainability and the other two by the DLC receive annual reports and other communications from the audit committee legal compliance and honesty and integrity.
Group via electronic means, facilities are also available for the The directors believe that the Group has robust compliance electronic submission of proxy votes for general meetings.
systems and procedures in place in relation to the code.
The Furthermore, shareholders can use the opportunity of the directors are not aware of any material non-compliance with annual general meetings to question the directors about the code.
The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
Annual general meetings Dealing in securities The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing in will be held on 5 May 2011 in Johannesburg and London securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based on respectively.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, regulatory and governance best practice.
The code sets out the chairmen of the principal committees will be present.
the restrictions placed on directors, senior management and other key employees with regard to their share dealing to Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of ensure that they do not abuse their access to information business to be considered at the annual general meetings.
All about the Group pending its public release and availability to shareholders and other interested parties.
The code is resolutions at the meetings will be voted on by taking polls, with the verified results announced as soon as practicable reviewed regularly and updated as required to ensure following the close of both meetings.
The voting results will continued compliance with regulation and best practice.
also be made available on the Mondi Group website.
All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial responsibilities and their connected persons are announced The notices of the annual general meetings, which include to the JSE Limited and the London Stock Exchange when explanations of each resolution, are contained in separate they occur.
Details of the directors interests in the shares of circulars which are being sent to all shareholders in advance both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc can be found in the of the meetings, in accordance with the corporate remuneration report on pages 64 to 66. governance codes of South Africa and the UK.
