Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors Board of Moneysupermarket.
com interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, Group PLC Company is committed to high standards of as appropriate, when giving any authorisation.
Any decision corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in of the Board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors voting or without published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council their votes being counted and in making such a decision, the Combined Code.
This Corporate Governance Report Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will describes how the principles of the Combined Code are applied be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
by the Company and reports on the Companys compliance with the Combined Codes provisions.
The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Compliance Director or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
During the The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year ended year, this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
31 December 2010 and to the date of this report except as set out below.
Relationship Agreement The majority shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
The Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship Board of Directors The Board currently has nine members, comprising the agreement on 11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between them Relationship Agreement.
The principal Non-Executive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, three Independent Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business Bruce Carnegie-Brown, and five Executive Directors, Simon Nixon, Paul Doughty, Peter Plumb, Graham Donoghue and independently of Simon Nixon, and that transactions and relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on David Osborne.
Michael Wemms has been designated as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in each The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number financial year including a two day strategy conference.
To enable the Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of without the Executive Directors present.
the ordinary shares of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the least 50% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if Simon Nixon holds Board are set out on pages 24 and 25 including details of the significant commitments of the Chairman.
The Board is less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry out his duties and responsibilities The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed effectively for the Group.
by Simon Nixon to deal with potential conflicts of interest and the provision of confidential information.
Independence Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide As at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed and varied commercial experience to Board and Committee any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the deliberations.
The practice of the Company is to appoint Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, subject to a maximum of up to 12 months notice within that period and also subject to re-election and to Companies Act Division of responsibilities The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, currently not combined, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities holds a letter of appointment reflecting this.
between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in writing and has been approved by The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent on appointment as Chairman and considers Michael Wemms, the Board.
Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegie-Brown to be independent, being independent in character and judgement and free from The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and Conflicts of interest constructive relations between the Executive and The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the Non-Executive Directors.
2008 Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 31 Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance and meets regularly to review the operation and performance of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the Groups website at www.
These include the Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: acquisitions and disposals: and other major investments and capital projects.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and approval each year by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
At least one of the Boards regular meetings each year is devoted to reviewing and approving the Groups strategic direction.
Board Committees The Board has three principal Committees Audit, Nomination and Remuneration to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and are published on the Groups website at www.
They are also available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 35 to 42.
The Directors who served on each of the Committees during the year are set out below: Committee Chairman Member Member Member Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Bruce Carnegie-Brown Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Remuneration Michael Wemms Gerald Corbett Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Simon Nixon 7 Peter Plumb 8 Paul Doughty 8 Graham Donoghue 8 David Osborne 7 Non-Executive Directors Gerald Corbett 8 3 4 5 Michael Wemms 8 3 4 5 Rob Rowley 8 3 4 5 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 6 2 2 2 Total number of scheduled meetings held 8 3 4 5 Bruce Carnegie-Brown was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 15 April 2010 and attended all of the Board and Committee meetings during the year following his appointment.
The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committee.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors appointed by the Board must retire and submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association further require that all Directors must retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General The Company provides Directors and officers insurance cover The Directors have access to the advice and services of the for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for performance of their duties.
The Company has also granted ensuring that Board procedures are followed and providing advice indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the Board on corporate governance.
Both the appointment to the extent permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Board evaluation Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their The Board has established a formal process for the annual responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought and individual Directors.
Questionnaires were prepared which by any Director during the year.
Directors have the right to provided the framework for the evaluation process.
Each require that any concerns they may have are recorded in the Director completed the questionnaires commenting on the appropriate Board or Committee minutes.
performance of the other Directors, the Board and each Committee and submitted the completed questionnaires Shareholder relations for collation.
The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, Utilising the responses to the questionnaires, the Chairman has conducted interviews with each Director and assessed their including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regularly meet with analysts and institutional individual performance.
The Chairman has carried out an evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole and shareholders to keep them informed of significant developments and to develop an understanding of their views of each Committee and, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors have which are reported back to the Board.
Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders covering the full year met and assessed the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary deals with questions from individual shareholders.
The conclusions of those evaluations have been presented The results and results presentations, together with all to the Board by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The evaluation process is designed information reported to the market via the regulatory information service, press releases and other shareholder to cover Board processes, the structure and capability of the Board, strategic alignment, Board dynamics and the skills information, are published on the Groups website at www.
com to be viewed and accessed brought to the Board by each Director.
The Board evaluation process identified strengths and development areas and confirmed that the Board and its The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael Wemms, is available to shareholders if they have concerns Committees were operating effectively.
The principal development areas included the need for a greater focus on which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, the Groups competitors and its employees, each of which would become regular agenda items at Board and Committee meetings.
or for which such contact is inappropriate.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions Development at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be preparing and implementing an induction programme for available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders Directors, including business related presentations by senior may also contact the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or, management below Board level, as well as guidance on their if more appropriate, the Senior Independent Non-Executive duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the Company.
Director to raise any issue with one or all of the Non-Executive Every Director has access to appropriate training as required Directors of the Company.
following their appointment and is encouraged to develop their understanding of the Group.
The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual Information General Meeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution Board members are given appropriate documentation in a will be published on the Groups website after the Annual timely manner in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
General Meeting and will be announced via the regulatory This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and information service.
full papers on matters where the Board or Committee will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Specific business related presentations are given by senior management below Board level when appropriate.
com Group PLC 33 Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued A.
3.2 During the year at least half the Board, excluding Internal control and risk management the Chairman, did not comprise Independent Non-Executive The Board is responsible for the Groups system of Directors.
The Directors consider that the Board is of sufficient internal control and risk management and for reviewing its size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Group at the current time.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
2.1 Prior to the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown on 15 April 2010, the Remuneration Committee did not comprise at The key features of the Groups system of internal control and least three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
risk management are: A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting C. 3.1 Prior to the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown on process, requiring Board approval, against which the 15 April 2010, the Audit Committee did not comprise at least Groups actual performance and any significant variances three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
are regularly reviewed by the Board.
A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval D. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by to ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial financial, organisational, compliance and capital Officer following their dialogue with major shareholders, the investment issues.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director believes he is An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of aware of the views of major shareholders.
Unless requested by responsibility and delegation of authority.
major shareholders, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee Director does not attend meetings with them.
of the key risks facing the Group and the actions being This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: taken to mitigate and manage those key risks.
An annual two day strategy conference to discuss and approve the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them.
Darren Drabble In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Company Secretary 28 February 2011 Reports from the external auditors in relation to the Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Reports from the external auditors in relation to the system of internal control and the reviews by the external auditors of that system.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management during the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
The Board considers that in the context of the control environment described above, the Groups system of internal control and risk management is effective and satisfactory.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in the Directors Report on pages 27 and 28.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Directors consider that during the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and to the date of this report, the Company complied with the Combined Code except as follows: 34 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010
