Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2010. the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Human Resources Director may attend meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the four Non-Executive Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge it necessary to discharge Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegietheir responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown are considered by the Board to be The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members of published on the Groups website at www.
com and are available in hard copy form on application to the the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Operation of the Nomination Committee This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: The Nomination Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32.
The Nomination Committees duties include: Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and 28 February 2011 experience of the Board.
Considering the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Where necessary, considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search company.
Careful consideration is given to ensure appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
This process was followed during the year in connection with the appointment of Bruce Carnegie-Brown as an additional Non-Executive Director of the Company.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the succession plans for the Board.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010
