Business Overview Business Review Management Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Financial Statements General Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the or wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a financial year ended 31 December 2010. confidential basis.
This includes arrangements to proportionately and independently investigate such matters and for appropriate Composition of the Audit Committee follow-up action.
The Audit Committee comprises the four Non-Executive Directors, Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee, Internal control and risk management Gerald Corbett, Michael Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal since 15 April 2010.
Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms and Bruce control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Carnegie-Brown are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews each year the Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to be independent on effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of appointment.
Biographies of the members of the Audit Committee internal control and risk management.
This includes annual are set out on pages 24 and 25.
Rob Rowley is a qualified consideration as to whether there is a need to establish an accountant and was formerly finance director of Reuters plc and internal audit function.
chairman of the audit committee at Prudential plc.
He is currently The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, chairman of the audit committee at Capital Shopping Centres and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and Group PLC.
The Board is satisfied that Rob Rowley has recent risk management, including financial, operational and compliance and relevant financial experience.
In addition to this review, the external Operation of the Audit Committee auditors provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
reports of the results of their controls testing as part of the Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set external audit.
On a half yearly basis, the Audit Committee also out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 32. reviewed the key risks facing the Group and the actions being taken by management to mitigate and manage them.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, together with the external auditors, will normally attend meetings at the During the year the Audit Committee considered the need to invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external establish an internal audit function and concluded that the control auditors are regularly invited by the Audit Committee to advise systems are sufficient for the size and complexity of the Group them of any matters which they consider should be brought to such that an internal audit function is not required at this time.
the Audit Committees attention without the Executive Directors This will be reviewed in 2011. present.
The external auditors may also request a meeting with Review of the work of the external auditors the Audit Committee if they consider it necessary.
Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
by shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the The members of the Audit Committee can, where they judge it relationship between the Group and the external auditors.
necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent This review includes an assessment of their performance, professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Audit Committees duties include: The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the Group and the Monitoring the financial reporting process.
The Group has implemented a policy of Monitoring the statutory audit of the Groups Financial controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external Statements.
auditors in order to ensure that their objectivity and independence Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material is safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring that all financial reporting judgements contained in them.
non-audit services are subject to the prior approval of the Audit Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control Committee.
During the year, the Audit Committee continued with and risk management systems.
the appointment of other accountancy firms to provide certain Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external non-audit services to the Group and anticipates that this will auditors and the provision of additional services to the Group.
Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the external auditors and the remuneration and terms of The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors engagement of the external auditors.
performance during their period in office, recommends their Reviewing the Groups whistle blowing procedures.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit related fees is set out in note 5 to the Group Financial The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an Statements on page 55.
The Audit Committee discussed the annual work plan.
The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the level of fees and considered them appropriate given the current audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and half size of the Group.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level year review each year.
and scope of non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors does not impair their independence and objectivity.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the Groups website at www.
com and This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: are available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Rob Rowley During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups Chairman of the Audit Committee whistle blowing procedures to ensure arrangements are in place 28 February 2011 to enable employees to raise concerns about possible malpractice Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 35 Annual Report 2010
