Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Key resources and contractual relationships Morgan Crucible has built up significant The Group has a wide range of customers The Group benefits from technological resources and benefits from contractual and suppliers and, while the loss of or know-how and other forms of intellectual and other relationships with multiple disruption to certain of these arrangements property, some of which are covered stakeholders, including customers and could temporarily affect the operations of by patents.
Collectively this intellectual suppliers, employees and joint venture a particular Division, none is considered property supports the development and partners.
These have been built up over essential to the business of the Group as manufacture of new products and services many years to support the Groups a whole.
Notwithstanding this, the Group to meet customer needs, but no one single competitive positioning in the key markets devotes significant resources to ensuring patent is considered essential to the which the Group serves.
these relationships continue to operate business of the Group as a whole.
As is described below, no one contractual Both of the Groups Divisions have a or other relationship is considered essential Employees Technical Director, and have research and to the business of the Group as a whole.
Morgan Crucibles most important resource development capabilities variously located Further information on the Groups is its people and we employ a highly at Divisional centres of excellence and stakeholder relationships is included skilled and qualified workforce.
One of diffused through the business in the form elsewhere in this Business review, including our strategic priorities is finding, keeping of applications engineering.
Further details in the Corporate responsibility section and developing the right people.
Many are included in the Review of operations on pages 46 to 53.
As referred to in the employees stay with the Group for their for both Divisions on pages 36 to 45.
Directors report on page 66, a number whole careers, as is highlighted on page 53.
Manufacturing capabilities of commercial and contractual agreements We place great emphasis on recruitment Over many years Morgan Crucible has include change of control provisions which and training and our policies and invested heavily in manufacturing capacity come into effect in the event of a change performance in these areas are set out and technology to develop its capability in ownership of the Company following on pages 52 and 53. to serve its chosen markets worldwide.
Succession plans are in place covering key In recent years the Group has developed In accordance with its goal, aim and management and technical roles and as and extended its manufacturing presence strategic priorities, the Group continues such no individual employee is considered and capabilities in China, India and Latin to invest in the areas discussed below to essential to the business of the Group America to meet customer needs in both maintain its leading market positions.
This investment supports our strategic priority of having Commercial relationships, market The executive Directors contracts are a culture of operational excellence and position and reputation referred to on page 82 and the terms cost efficiency.
Morgan Crucible is generally ranked number and conditions of appointment of the one or two in its chosen market segments.
non-executive Directors are referred to Joint venture partners The Group is a world leader in advanced on page 81 and are available for inspection In a number of territories around the world, ceramic and composite materials.
The prior to the Annual General Meeting and the Group has established joint ventures Company was founded in 1856 and has at the Companys registered office.
Many of these joint a worldwide reputation.
ventures have been in operation for many Research and development, patents years: however, no individual joint venture The Groups businesses provide products and intellectual property agreement is considered to be essential and services to other companies and we The Groups goal is to continue to be one to the business of the Group as a whole.
have developed close working relationships of the worlds very best advanced materials with many of our customers and suppliers companies, supported by the strategic Banking and other financial and work in collaboration with them priority of offering high added-value to relationships to develop new products.
The Groups Divisions use Details of significant banking and other their extensive knowledge base, particularly relationships are referred to on page 66 in the areas of advanced ceramic and in the Directors report.
However, no one composite materials, to develop new banking relationship is considered to be products and services to meet customer essential to the performance and value needs and to differentiate themselves of the Company.
in the markets they serve.
60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
