Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 2 January 2011 the Company was subject to the June 2008 edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
Throughout the year the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code and this statement describes how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 32 to 61 and pages 76 to 86 respectively.
The Company also has plans in place to help ensure compliance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code which came into effect for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, including for the annual re-election of Directors and an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board at least every three years.
Directors The Board The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its strategy meeting during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of which are referred to on page 46 in the Business review.
The Board met formally nine times during the year to review current performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major business decisions.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Board including significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate responsibility.
One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy and the longer term development of the Company.
Various matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board, as is further described below.
During the year Andrew Hosty was appointed as an executive Director on 28 July 2010.
There were no other changes of membership of the Board and there were no changes of role.
As at 16 February 2011 the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman: Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Hosty, Chief Executive Officer of the Morgan Ceramics Division and three non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale.
Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that all Directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for re-election by the shareholders each year.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for a term of three years, subject now to annual re-election.
The independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has served for six or more years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Tim Stevenson 9 9 7 7 2 2 Mark Robertshaw 9 9 2 2 Kevin Dangerfield 9 9 Andrew Hosty 3 3 Martin Flower 9 9 5 5 7 7 2 2 Andrew Given 9 9 5 5 7 7 2 2 Simon Heale 9 9 5 5 7 7 2 2 Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would be recorded in the Board minutes.
An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is in place.
68 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board including setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic issues, for promoting a culture of open debate, facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive Directors and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Company, including the delivery of the Groups business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, chairing the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation of the Groups policies and strategies.
The management of the Groups operating Divisions reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
Board balance and independence Throughout the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised three executive Directors and three non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent.
In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major suppliers and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
Martin Flower was appointed in December 2004 and Simon Heale was appointed in February 2005 and both have served on the Board for six years.
As noted above, a non-executive Director serving for more than six years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
The Chairman has conducted a thorough review with each Director and concluded that both continue to demonstrate the independence, commitment and effectiveness expected by the Board.
The size, structure and composition of the Board was reviewed during the year and one additional executive Director was appointed.
Appointments to the Board As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set out on page 74, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for appointments to the Board.
Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for appointments to the Board and for senior management.
Information and professional development The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally sent out five working days before each meeting.
All Directors received a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
Each Directors experience and background is taken into account in developing a tailored programme.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to visit operating sites and have access to management and other staff.
In addition to visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2010 formal Board meetings were held at the Technical Ceramics site in Stourport, UK and at the Thermal Ceramics technology centre in Bromborough, UK.
In addition, the Board visited the Morgan AM&T and Thermal Ceramics sites in Shanghai, China and the Molten Metals Systems site in Suzhou, China.
Training and development needs are assessed as part of the Board performance review process and the Directors regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge, taking into account environmental, social and governance matters.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability of external courses under review.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in connection with their duties as Directors.
Performance evaluation The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and of the individual Directors during the year.
The review consisted of a structured interview between the Chairman and each Director, the Divisional Chief Executives, the Company Secretary and the Director of Risk Management.
These one-to-one discussions were complemented by a questionnaire and each Director had the opportunity to raise broader issues relating to the Companys strategy and governance.
The results of the review were communicated to the Board with one-to-one feedback where appropriate.
As noted above, this was complemented by further rigorous review of those non-executive Directors who have served for six or more years.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 69 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued The evaluation concluded that the Board performed effectively, with open and constructive discussions and the right emphasis on shortand long-term matters.
The Board calendar and agendas were appropriate with a number of meetings held at operating locations during the year and good exposure to senior management throughout the Group.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also confirmed that they have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company and, as noted above, the training needs of the Directors are assessed.
The recommendations which will be implemented following the 2010 Board performance evaluation include continued emphasis on succession planning and risk management and on ensuring the composition of the Board and the balance of skills and experience of the Directors continues to be appropriate.
In addition allowance will be made in the Board timetable for informal meetings and the Board expects to use an external facilitator to support the Board performance evaluation process in 2011.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans performance during the year, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The recommendations made following the 2009 Board performance review were implemented during the year.
These included increasing the amount of interaction outside the formal Board environment, a review of the Board procedures in relation to capital expenditure proposals, increasing the focus on succession planning throughout the business and further presentations of the Groups technology to the Board including a visit by the Board to the Thermal Ceramics Businesss technology centre in Bromborough, UK.
The Board also reviewed its performance evaluation process and determined that an evaluation led by the Chairman was appropriate for 2010 with the expectation that an externally facilitated process will be adopted in 2011.
Remuneration Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 86.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting In its reporting to shareholders, the Board aims to present the balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects required by the Code and in accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement 1, The Operating and Financial Review RS1.
This is included in the Business review on pages 32 to 61.
The Board also presents updated information in its Interim and other public reports.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 75 and the going concern statement is set out in the Business review on page 57.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of such system.
The Companys system of internal control has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so during the year.
The system of internal control accords with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on the internal control requirements of the Code Turnbull.
This review covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee receives regular risk management reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates their effectiveness.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the assets of the Group are safeguarded: transactions are authorised and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or irregularities.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The internal control framework complements the Groups management structure.
The main features of the Groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: Control environment The Groups management processes include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties with documented policies and manuals.
These cover financial procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Groups Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Groups commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Groups ethics hotline is available to employees and others in this regard.
The Chief Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance to the Board confirming that for each of the businesses for which he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with Group policies and procedures.
70 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Financial reporting Risk management systems and internal controls are in place in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes and the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These include policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
As noted above, representatives of the business are required to certify that their reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and its results for the period.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and internal controls.
Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams also meet regularly to review performance.
Presentations of actual and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee and the Board by the Groups Divisional Chief Executives.
In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the Executive Committee.
Risk management The identification of major business risks is an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues at their management meetings and the Director of Risk Assurance helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is embedded into the Groups operations through the Risk Management Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is attended by the Chief Financial Officer of each Division.
Risk factors Morgan Crucibles businesses are affected by a number of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate control, although, as described above and in the Business review, the identification and management of such risks is carried out systematically.
These are further discussed in the Risk management section on pages 58 and 59.
Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed with management.
The Internal Auditor has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee and auditors The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how the Directors apply the Companys financial reporting and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
This requirement is met by the work of the Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried out by the Companys external auditors, KPMG Audit plc.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc that its general procedures support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Conflicts of interest The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors to avoid conflicts of interest.
These procedures are in accordance with the GC100 guidance.
Accordingly the Directors are required to continue to 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict: and 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise to an actual or potential conflict.
During the year the Board undertook a review of Directors outside interests to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest, including the interests of connected persons where such interests could give rise to an indirect conflict.
This confirmed that there were no actual conflicts of interest and the only potential conflicts of interest identified were outside directorships.
The Board considered each Directors situation and authorised any potential conflicts for a period of 15 months from December 2010.
Such authorisation is revocable at any time at the Boards discretion.
Should an actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board shall consider whether to authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
The Board is responsible for undertaking a regular review of any authorisations given and will itself, or through one of its committees, ensure that the procedures for reporting and, if appropriate, authorising conflicts and potential conflicts of interest are operated correctly.
In addition, the Nomination Committee will review the outside interests of a proposed Director to identify actual or potential conflicts of interest and will make recommendations to the Board as to whether the situation should be authorised.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 71 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the half-year and final results announcements.
The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly with shareholders.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors avail themselves of opportunities to meet major shareholders and attend investor briefings to help ensure they have an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
They would also attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders on request.
Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the Companys website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
At the AGM held in April 2010, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Board committees The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are available upon request and are also available on the Companys website.
Audit The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of the Committee throughout the year.
All members of the Committee are independent Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
At the end of each meeting the non-executive Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors without the executive Directors or other members of management present.
The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their respective Divisions.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include: Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk management systems.
Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
72 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost of the Company.
The Director of Risk Assurance and the Internal Auditor both have access to the Chairman of the Committee and meet, when appropriate, with the Committee without other executives present.
The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in respect of 2010 included: Reviewing the Groups 2009 financial statements and 2010 interim statements prior to Board approval.
The review of the process by which the Groups main business risks are assessed and managed, with the principal risks being considered by the Board as a whole.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit and risk management systems.
Consideration of the work and plans for the internal audit function.
Appraisal of the Companys whistleblowing provision and related procedures and policies.
Confirmation of the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in 2010 included services amounting to 0.1 million, mainly in connection with tax advice.
To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows: Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors, including the review of their own work: they may not make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position of advocate.
Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external auditors with a fee in excess of 200,000 should be referred to the Audit Committee.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work relative to the audit fee was 6% 2009: 5%.
The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their independence and have written to the Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
The Company last changed its auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external auditors which included a re-tender presentation during 2007.
The external auditors rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work in 2008.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not be put out to third-party tender during 2010 and will further review the situation during 2011.
Remuneration As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 76 to 86, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as share options and awards under the Companys incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources.
No member of the Committee or attendee is present when their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do they participate in any relevant voting.
The Committee also has the power to request, for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member of management as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
It is the Companys policy to disclose the fees of any executive Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of Segro plc and Andrew Hosty served as a non-executive Director of British Ceramic Research Ltd.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw and Andrew Hosty in this regard are shown on page 82.
The report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details of the Committees responsibilities and terms of reference and of the Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares, is set out on pages 76 to 86.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 73 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance continued Nomination The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Tim Stevenson as Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale, and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, as may be considered appropriate by the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee formally met twice during 2010 and also held further informal discussions regarding the shape and size of the Board.
The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
In the light of this review, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
Their other significant commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an indication of the time involved, and the Board is informed of any subsequent changes.
The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include a notice period.
The procedures referred to above were used by the Nomination Committee in recommending the appointment of Andrew Hosty as an executive Director on 28 July 2010.
There were no other nominations to the Board or changes in role during the year.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors report on pages 64 to 67 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
Information on share capital and other matters The information about share capital required to be included in this statement can be found on pages 64 to 65 of the Directors report.
74 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
