76 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction Directors The Company is incorporated in England and listed on the London Stock The Board Exchange, with the Groups businesses, which comprise mining, transport The Directors collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups andwater distribution, principally located in Chile, the largest copper producing business.
The Board, which met eight times during 2010, was comprised of country in the world.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, an entity in which members of anExecutive Chairman and seven Non-Executive Directors, five of whom are the Luksic family are interested, controls 60.66% of the ordinary share capital considered by the Board to be independent.
Subsequent to the year end, two and 94.12% of the preference share capital of the Company through two further Directors, were appointed to the Board.
One is not considered by the investment vehicles, Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment.
Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code Aureberg Establishment, which is controlled by Antofagastas Chairman, while the other is considered by the Board to be independent.
One Director Mr. J-PLuksic, holds 4.26% of the ordinary share capital of the Company as based in Chile who was considered independent resigned after the end of atthe date of this report.
Antofagastas Board is committed to managing the theyear.
operations of the Group with a view to maximising value for all shareholders.
There is a schedule of matters specically reserved for the Board.
The Board During 2010 the Board had eight members, comprising an Executive Chairman isresponsible for: and seven Non-Executive Directors.
Two of these eight Directors including the providing leadership: Chairman are members of the Luksic family.
Six of these Directors, including setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: theChairman, are based in Chile, where the Groups operations are principally located: one of these Directors is based in England, where the Company is ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange: and one of these meetits objectives: Directors is based in the United States.
reviewing the Groups performance: and Subsequent to the year end, two further Directors were appointed to the Board, overseeing the Groups internal control systems.
one of whom is based in the United States and one of whom is based in Canada.
The Chairman will always attempt to persuade the Board to act as a single team The day-to-day operations of the Group are carried on through the boards of by obtaining consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional circumstances, each division of the Group, Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, Antofagasta decisions may be taken by majority.
The agenda for Board meetings are set Railway Company plc FCAB railway and other transport services and Aguas bythe Chairman in consultation with the other Directors.
fide Antofagasta S. A. water distribution.
The Antofagasta Board oversees these Responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
Each division is headed by a financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
chief executive officer who reports to his divisional board and the Chairman of Accordingly, the boards of Antofagasta Minerals S. A. mining, the Antofagasta the Group Marcelo Awad for the mining division, Miguel Seplveda at the Railway Company plc railway and other transport services and Aguas fide transport business and Marco Ktulas in the water division.
Antofagasta Minerals Antofagasta S. A. water distribution meet regularly to consider strategic, S. A. has a team of senior executives who report to Marcelo Awad, focusing on operational and risk management issues in more detail.
There is substantial areas including operations, strategy, risk management, human resources, overlap between membership of the Board of Antofagasta plc and these three finance and business development, exploration and mineral resources, divisional boards.
The chief executive officer of each division reports to his corporateaffairs and project development.
divisional board and to the Chairman of the Group: the Board oversees these During the 2010 financial year, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance divisional boards and provides strategic direction.
The Board is also responsible issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code for reviewing the performance of management.
The Non-Executive Directors applied to the Company.
The Board describes below how it applied the corporate scrutinise the performance of management in meeting goals and objectives governance principles contained in the Combined Code during that year.
andalso monitor the reporting of performance, through the activities of the Twoareas where the Company did not comply with the detailed Combined Code Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
provisions are set out at the end of this report under the heading Statement The Directors of the Company as at 7 March 2011 are set out on page 70. ofcompliance with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
The UK Mr. fide Yarur served as a Non-Executive Director throughout 2010, and resigned Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June from the Board subsequent to the year end on 1 March 2011.
2010 will apply to the Company from the 2011 financial year and will be reportedupon in the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director is Mr. C H Bailey, who is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr. G S Menndez is Chairman ofthe Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board does not have aDirector formally designated as Chief Executive.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 77 The role of the Chairman in the Remuneration Report on page 82.
Mr. G A Luksic is the brother of Mr. J-PLuksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Mr. G A Luksic is chairman of Mr. J-P Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time Executive Quienco S. A. and chairman or a director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that prevent him from Mr. J-P Luksic and Mr. G S Menndez are also non-executive directors of devoting sufficient time to this role.
Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco As explained above, the Group does not have a Board member who is isalso controlled by the Luksic family.
Mr. H Dryland was appointed a Nondesignated as Chief Executive.
Mr. Marcelo Awad is chief executive officer of Executive Director subsequent to the year end on 20 January 2011.
The Board Antofagasta Minerals S. A. : Mr. Miguel Seplveda is chief executive officer of the does not consider Mr. H Dryland to be independent, as Mr. Dryland has provided Antofagasta Railway Company plc: and Mr. Marco Ktulas is the chief executive advisory services to the Group in his capacity as a senior managing director at officer of Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.
The Board believes that the Company is Rothschild, which remains a financial advisor to the Group.
notat risk from a concentration of power by Mr. J-P Luksic having executive Appointments to the Board responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong presence of Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr. G S Menndez Chairman, structure of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Sustainability Committees Mr. C H Bailey and Mr. R F Jara.
As explained above, Mr. C H Bailey and designed to devolve away from the Chairman responsibility and control of certain Mr. GSMenndez are considered by the Board to be independent key areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation of management Non-Executive Directors.
responsibility to the chief executive officer of each division.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board Board balance and independence including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors The Board considers five of its seven Non-Executive Directors who served during and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for 2010 to be independent Mr. C H Bailey, Mr. G S Menndez, Mr. D E Yarur, new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the Mr. JG Claro and Mr. W M Hayes.
Mr. T C Baker who was also appointed appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments subsequent to the year end is considered independent.
The Board is satisfied are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In fullling these responsibilities, that this balance limits the scope for an individual or small group of individuals the Nomination Committee consults the Chairman, Mr. J-P Luksic.
All Directors will be standing for TheNomination Committee meets as necessary and, in any case, at least once a re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and biographical details year.
Its terms of reference are available from the Companys registered ofce of each Director can be found on page 70. and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
Mr. Claro, Mr. Hayes and Mr. Baker meet the independence criteria set out In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the inCombined Code provision A.
3.1 and the Board is satisfied as to their skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of independence.
The Board is satisfied that Mr. Bailey remains independent in the potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
It considers the potential character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining industry, Latin more than nine years, since he does not receive any remuneration from the America, capital markets and the regulatory environment, and that they have Company other than Non-Executive Directors fees, nor does he have any other sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures that any new relationships with the Company or its majority shareholder.
Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
The Board is also satisfied that Mr. Menndez remains independent in character All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for and judgement, notwithstanding that he has also served on the Board for more aninitial period of three years from the date of their appointment, subject to than nine years and notwithstanding that he is a non-executive director of re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
These letters require the Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also controlled by the Luksic family Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to and some of its subsidiaries, including Banco fide Chile.
This is because he does discharge their responsibilities.
The letters of appointment are available for not receive any remuneration from the Group other than in a non-executive inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours and capacity.
His position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive at the Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The Board considers that Mr. Baileys and Mr. Menndezs length of The Company intends to comply with provision B.
7 of the UK Corporate service is of considerable benefit to the Board given their wealth of knowledge Governance Code from the 2011 financial year and submit each Director for and experience of the Group and of Latin America and of the mining industry, annual re-election.
and therefore proposes both for re-election.
Information and professional development The Board does not consider Mr. R F Jara or Mr. G A Luksic who served during the year nor Mr. Dryland who was appointed subsequent to the year end to be The Directors receive information for review ahead of each Board or Committee independent.
Mr. R F Jara provides advisory services to the Group, as explained Meeting.
In addition, they receive regular reports and forecasts for the Group and 78 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued each significant operation to ensure that they remain properly briefed about the Re-election performance and financial position of the Group throughout the year.
All Directors All Directors at the date of this report will stand for re-election at this years have access to management and to such further information as is needed to Annual General Meeting.
Biographical details of all the Directors are set out carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Chairman confirms that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the Directors continues to be effective and continues to demonstrate commitment affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company also provides Directors with the necessary resources to develop Remuneration and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are The membership of the Remuneration Committee, a statement of the Companys regularly updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory policy on remuneration, and the remuneration details and shareholding interests environment in which it operates and other changes affecting the Group as a of each Director are contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 83. whole.
The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly and at least once a year, and the Directors based outside the United Kingdom also regularly Accountability and audit visit this country, again normally at least once a year, and normally attend the Internal control Companys Annual General Meeting held in London.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a Group management in the United Kingdom and Chile is responsible for ensuring continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which is an ongoing withand for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance activity from the start of each financial year to the date of approval of this report matters.
Company secretarial services and advice are provided by Petershill and which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published Secretaries Limited.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a Performance evaluation system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve The Board periodically considers its performance and effectiveness.
business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Aperformance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual against material misstatement or loss.
members was conducted during 2010 by Mr. G S Menndez, with the assistance In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board regularly of senior management.
Mr. C H Bailey, as the senior independent Non-Executive reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards Director was responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman.
The results were monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance discussed with the Chairman and considered by the Board and were taken into controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from account in the decision to recommend for re-election all of the Directors at the management to consider whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Directors attendance at meetings in 2010 The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2010, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Sustainability Committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible J-P Luksic 8 8 1 1 C H Bailey 7 8 3 3 2 2 2 2 G S Menndez 8 8 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 R F Jara 8 8 2 2 1 1 1 D E Yarur 8823 12 G A Luksic 2 8 J G Claro 8 8 1 W M Hayes 7 8 1 0n 29 November Mr. D E Yarur retired from the Remuneration Committee and was replaced by Mr. W M Hayes.
No meetings were held in 2010 since Mr. W M Hayes joined the committee.
All Directors in ofce at the time of the Annual General Meeting in June 2010 attended that meeting.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 79 managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly Audit Committee and auditors remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has During the year the Audit Committee comprised Mr. C H Bailey Chairman, alsoperformed a specic assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
Mr. GS Menndez and Mr. D E Yarur.
0n 1 March 2011, Mr. D E Yarur retired Thisassessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising from theBoard and was replaced on the Audit Committee by Mr. W M Hayes.
during the period covered by the report including the work of internal audit.
TheAudit Committee members during the year and to the date of this report are TheAudit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
All three During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has members are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
not identied nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year with the external auditors in determined to be significant.
Therefore a conrmation in respect of necessary attendance.
The Audit Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting actions is not required.
Further information relating to the Groups risk and itsresponsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
In particular, management systems is given on pages 18 to 21. itreviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is Going concern responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditors including The Boards statement on going concern is included in the Financial Review their objectivity and effectiveness, monitoring the provision of any non-audit onpage 67. services and for making recommendations to the Board for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee Corporate sustainability periodically reviews if it is necessary to re-tender the audit engagement.
The Board takes into account the community, social, environmental and ethical Itreviews the internal control and risk assessment procedures adopted by the impact of its decisions and is responsible for the relevant policies of the Group.
Group described in the section under the heading Internal control above, ACorporate Sustainability Committee, comprising Mr. J-P Luksic, Mr. G S including a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal Menndez and Mr. R F Jara, assists the Board in its responsibilities with respect audit function is responsible for reviewing the adequacy of the internal control to the Groups social responsibility.
The Committee met once in 2010 with all environment across the Group and for reporting the findings of the internal audit three members in attendance.
Key issues of social responsibility are identied work to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee also and assessed through the Groups risk management processes described monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Directors statements on underInternal control above.
The Group also published a separate annual internal controls and reviews the going concern basis prior to its endorsement Sustainability Report to provide further information on its social and bythe Board.
The Committee also reviews the preliminary announcement and environmental performance.
More information on corporate sustainability the half yearly financial report.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee isgivenon pages 46 to 57. are available from the Companys registered ofce and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
Whistleblowing procedures The Audit Committee, whose other functions are described below, is The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity within responsiblefor reviewing arrangements by which employees of the Group its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from any may, incondence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of employees and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made financial reporting or other matters.
An Ethics Code is in place across the Group, by the Audit Committee.
which includes a procedure to enable employees to raise concerns, anonymously The Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP, have provided non-audit services if necessary.
An Ethics Committee, comprising members of senior management, to the Company, which amounted to US$609,000.
This comprised the provision isresponsible for implementing, developing and updating the Ethics Code and of services relating to corporate finance advisory services, tax compliance and investigating any allegations of impropriety.
The Ethics Committee reports other consultancy services.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the level of these directlyto the Chief Executive of Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
The Audit Committee services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and considers the results of this work and the operation of the Ethics Code as part independence of the auditors are not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
ofits annual review of the effectiveness of internal control.
The Audit Committee has also considered the effectiveness of the external audit function through the year through meetings with Deloitte LLP, a review of their audit plan and a consideration of the results of work performed by the external auditors prior to release of the half year and full year results.
80 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with shareholders Statement of compliance with the detailed provisions Directors and senior management regularly meet with institutional shareholders ofthe Combined Code and analysts in the United Kingdom, Europe, Chile, North America, Asia and As explained above, the Company complied with the detailed code provisions Australia.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director, Mr. C H Bailey, also contained in the Combined Code throughout 2010 except as follows: attends meetings with major shareholders when required.
Other Non-Executive the Board did not have a separately identied Chief Executive and hence at Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend Board level there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
These meetings ensure that the Chief Executive provision A.
As explained above, the Group has separate Board is able to develop and maintain an understanding of the views of several of chief executives for its mining, transport and water distribution divisions who the Companys major investors.
The Company carries out a formal programme of report to their respective divisional boards and to the Chairman of the Group.
presentations to update institutional shareholders and analysts on developments The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition in the Group after the announcement of the half year and full year results.
combined with the delegation of management responsibility to the chief Inaddition, quarterly production gures and financial results are published for executive officer of each division achieves an appropriate balance and themining, transport and water divisions.
Copies of these results and production preventsa concentration of power in its Executive Chairman: and announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by the Company performance-related pay measures did not apply to Board members are available on its website.
As noted above, the Group also publishes a separate provisionB.
The Board considers this appropriate given its predominantly Sustainability Report to provide further information on its social and Non-Executive composition and the role of the only Executive Director, environmental performance.
The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM whoisamember of the controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
isalso used as an opportunity to communicate with both institutional and private Performance-related bonuses are paid to senior management in the Group shareholders: the Board of Directors encourages all shareholders to attend.
based on a combination of personal, divisional and Group performance Thenotice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in assessed against targets set at the start of each year.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation ofthe resolutions and the attendance of committee chairmen.
