Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance The Company believes that by seeking Going concern The committed bank facility was drawn to achieve a high standard of corporate The directors have reviewed the going down by a maximum of 20 million governance in all of the activities concern principle in the light of the during the period to fund seasonal undertaken by the group, the groups guidance provided by the FRC in 2009. working capital and at the year end reputation and performance will be The groups business activities, and the group had a cash balance of 38.5 enhanced.
In addition, it will also the factors likely to affect its future million in addition to the 65 million of promote and benefit the interests of development are set out in the business available facilities at the time which investors, customers, staff and other review.
The financial position of the has now been reduced to 50 million stakeholders.
To this end, the Company group, its cash flows, liquidity position as noted above.
considers that it has complied and borrowing facilities are set out in The current economic conditions throughout the 52-week period ended the financial review on pages 14 to 18. create uncertainty around the level on 27 March 2010 with the relevant In addition, notes 21 and 22 to the of demand for the groups products.
provisions set out in Section 1 of the financial statements include the groups However, the group has long term 2008 Combined Code on Corporate objectives, policies and processes for contracts with its franchisees around the Governance published by the Financial managing its capital: its financial risk world and long standing relationships Reporting Council FRC having applied management objectives: details of its with many of its suppliers.
As a the main and supporting principles hedging arrangements and its exposure consequence, the directors believe that set out in Section 1 of the Code.
to credit and liquidity risks.
the group is well placed to manage its The board The groups objective with respect business risks successfully despite the The leadership of the Mothercare plc to managing capital is to maintain uncertain economic outlook.
business is provided by the Mothercare a balance sheet structure that is both The groups latest forecasts and plc board.
It operates on a unitary efficient in terms of providing long term projections have been sensitivity-tested basis and comprises the chairman, four returns to shareholders and safeguards for reasonable possible adverse independent non-executive directors, the groups ability to continue as a going variations in trading performance and and two full-time executive directors, concern.
As appropriate, the group can show that the group will operate within being the group chief executive and the choose to adjust its capital structure the terms of its borrowing facilities and group finance director.
A key element by varying the amount of dividends covenants for the foreseeable future.
of the boards responsibility is monitoring paid to shareholders, return of capital and reviewing the effectiveness of the to shareholders, issuing new shares After making appropriate enquiries, Companys system of internal control.
or the level of capital expenditure.
the directors have a reasonable The non-executive directors play a pivotal expectation that the Company and At the year end, the group had facilities role in challenging and scrutinising its the group have adequate resources of 65 million, being 55 million committed effectiveness and integrity.
The Company to continue in operational existence for secured bank facilities and 10 million has continued to maintain a system the foreseeable future.
The financial uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft.
of internal control within an executive statements are therefore prepared As of 26 April 2010, the group refinanced, management structure with defined on the going concern basis.
with committed secured bank facilities lines of responsibility and delegation of of 40 million at an interest rate of Risk management authority within prescribed financial and 1.7 per cent above LIBOR, which expire The business review sets out progress operational limits.
The system of internal on 31 October 2013.
It also has an made during the year against the control is based on financial, operational, uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft challenges that the board has set for compliance and risk control policies of 10 million.
In this section some of and procedures together with regular the principal risks and uncertainties that reporting of financial performance The groups previous and current face the business are set out.
This section and measurement of key performance committed borrowing facilities contain also forms part of the business review indicators.
Risk management, planning, certain financial covenants which requirements.
budgeting and forecasting procedures have been met throughout the period.
are also in place together with formal The covenants are tested half-yearly capital investment and appraisal and are based around gearing, fixed arrangements.
charge cover and guarantor cover.
