The main activities of the audit The audit committee reviews annually year the committee agreed proposals committee in the 52 weeks ended the independence of the external audit to restructure the provision of internal 27 March 2010 firm and the individuals carrying out audit services to the group whereby During the period the audit committee has: the audit by receiving assurances from,  took a lead and assessing, the audit firm against role in the provision of such assurance reviewed the financial statements best practice principles.
In respect of the activities of both in the interim report and full year seeks to balance the benefits of the function, the committee has received report and accounts, having in both continuity of audit personnel and the reports upon the work carried out and cases received a report from the need to assure independence through the results of the investigations including external auditors on their review change of audit personnel by agreeing management responses, their adequacy and audit of the respective reports with the audit firm staff rotation policies.
and accounts: In any event, the external auditors are A review was also held of the assisted the board in its detailed required to rotate the audit partner effectiveness of the audit committee review of the going concern principle responsible for the audit every five years.
and the external auditors during the underpinning the results of the group The current lead audit partner has been year.
It was considered that the work of for the period in the light of the in place for three years.
the audit committee during the year was Financial Reporting Councils additional effective measured against its terms of guidance on going concern and The audit committee has considered reference and general audit committee liquidity risk: the likelihood of a withdrawal of the practice.
In respect of the auditor auditor from the market.
There are no considered the output of the effectiveness review, it was considered contractual obligations restricting the procedures used to evaluate and that the external auditors had carried committees choice of external auditors.
mitigate risk within the group: out their obligations in an effective and In addition, a policy in respect of appropriate manner.
reviewed the effectiveness of non-audit work by the audit firm is also the groups internal controls and As a result of its work during the year, in effect.
The general principal being disclosures made in the annual report: the committee has concluded that it that the audit firm should not be requested has acted in accordance with its terms considered the management letter to carry out non-audit services on any of reference and has ensured as far from the external auditors on their activity of the Company where they may, as possible by enquiry of them the review of the effectiveness of internal in the future, be required to give an audit independence of the external auditors.
The committee has assisted The chairman of the committee will be the board in the assessment of the agreed the fees and terms of available at the AGM to answer any adequacy of the resourcing plan for appointment of the external auditors: questions on the work of the committee.
During the reviewed both the committees and Director attendance statistics for the 52-week period ended 27 March 2010 the external auditors effectiveness: Committee agreed the work plan of the internal Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration audit function and reviewed the Maximum number of meetings 8 4 2 6 resultant output from that plan: and Ian Peacock 8 4 2 6 reviewed and assessed the Karren Brady 6 3 2 6 groups compliance with corporate Bernard Cragg 8 4 2 5 governance principles.
Ben Gordon 8 4 2 6 Neil Harrington 8 4 2 6 Richard Rivers 8 4 2 6 David Williams 8 4 2 6 Notes: Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington attend meetings of the audit and remuneration committees upon the invitation of the respective chairmen.
Ian Peacock attends meetings of the audit committee on the same basis.
In addition to the board meetings above there were four ad hoc board meetings, two of which approved the interim and full year report and accounts respectively.
These meetings are constituted by the board from those members available at that time having considered the views of the whole board beforehand.
