Corporate Governance Report Combined code One third of the board is required to retire Attendance The board is committed to high standards every year.
Accordingly, all directors are Lord Alliance of of corporate governance and compliance subject to re-election every three years.
Manchester CBE 8 with the principles in the Combined All directors joining the board are required Code on Corporate Governance issued to submit themselves for election at the Ivan Fallon 8 by the UK Financial Reporting Council in annual general meeting following their Alan White 8 2008 the Code.
The purpose of this appointment.
All non-executive directors statement is to explain how the group has serve the company under formal written Lord Stone of Blackheath 8 applied the principles of good governance terms and conditions of appointment.
These terms of appointment stipulate a Nigel Alliance OBE 8 period of service of an indefinite duration Dean Moore 8 For the year in review the group has terminable on six months notice by either complied with the provisions set out in party.
All non-executive appointments are John McGuire 8 section 1 of the Code.
Explanations of subject to early termination provisions, Anna Ford 7 how the main principles of the Code have for example allowing earlier termination been applied are set out below and in the without compensation in the event a Directors remuneration report.
director is not re-elected upon retirement The board is responsible for major policy by rotation in accordance with the articles.
decisions, delegating detailed operational Board composition In line with the Code all non-executive matters to its committees and subThe board currently comprises eight directors who have served for nine years committees and senior officers where members, six of whom are non-executive.
will be subject to annual re-election.
The board is collectively There is a clear division of responsibilities such, Lord Alliance of Manchester CBE, responsible for providing effective between the Chairman, Lord Alliance of Nigel Alliance OBE and Ivan Fallon will be leadership and promoting the success of Manchester CBE, who is responsible for subject to re-election at the 2010 annual the group and has established a formal the effective operation of the board and general meeting and, being eligible, will schedule of matters reserved for its the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is offer themselves for re-election.
Dean approval a copy of which is available responsible for the groups operational Moore and John McGuire will retire on the companys website, www.
by rotation at the 2010 annual general nbrown.
This document includes meeting in accordance with the companys all decisions on business strategy, the The non-executive directorship of the articles of association and, being eligible, approval of financial statements, the board comprises the Chairman, Lord offer themselves for re-election.
annual capital and operating expenditure Alliance of Manchester CBE, Nigel Alliance plans, investment, treasury and dividend OBE, both of whom are not regarded The board, having carried out a policies, governance issues, major capital by the board as independent under performance evaluation, considers that projects, overseeing the groups risk the provisions of the Code, the deputy the performance of all directors, including control procedures, board membership chairman Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of those facing re-election continues to be and the composition of its committees Blackheath, John McGuire and Anna Ford.
Sufficient biographical detail and the groups ethical, social and All of these are considered by the board to is provided on page 20 of this annual environmental policies.
Currently, at least be independent.
report to enable shareholders to make one of the boards meetings at the start an informed decision on any re-election of each year is held over two days and Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board resolution.
All appointments to the board is entirely devoted to the development in October 1994 and he has now served are made on merit against objective criteria and review of corporate strategy and on the board for a period beyond which and with the intention of ensuring that the development of the groups three the Code suggests that his independence all appointees have the requisite skills year business strategic plan.
The board, nonetheless, and sufficient time to devote themselves operational management of the group is holds Ivan Fallon to be independent and effectively to the business of the board and delegated to the home shopping board of that his commercial experience, acumen to discharge their duties.
and extensive knowledge of the groups businesses gained during his tenure on the Details of directors contract terms are The board governs through clearly board are of such great value to the board shown in the Remuneration Report on mandated committees, accompanied by that this far outweighs any considerations page 37. robust monitoring and reporting systems.
Ivan Fallon is also Further detail is given below.
the senior independent non-executive Board operation director and the deputy chairman.
An effective board of directors leads and A comprehensive set of board papers controls the group.
The members of the including detailed management reports The board considers that it had a majority board are shown on page 20 of this report.
from the Chief Executive and the Finance of independent non-executive directors The board met 8 times during the year.
Director, management accounts, broker during the year.
It is considered that the Directors attendance at board meetings analyses and shareholder analyses and composition of the board during the year was as follows: bespoke reports from the home shopping had the necessary balance of executive board is circulated to each director not and non-executive directors providing the less than seven days prior to each board requisite skills, experience and judgement meeting.
Non-executive directors are appropriate for the requirements of the encouraged to visit and talk to operational business and board effectiveness.
staff and undertake regular site visits to N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Corporate Governance Report ensure they have the most up-to-date both the operational divisional directors Audit committee knowledge and understanding of the and groups executive directors exists in The audit committee consists entirely of company and its activities.
The survey found that the board non-executive directors the board consider in place to enable all directors to obtain continues to be effectively led by the to be independent.
The current chairman independent professional advice in respect Chairman and that information provided is John McGuire.
The other members are of their fiduciary duties and obligations in the form of board papers remains Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and all board members have full and comprehensive and sufficient for the and Anna Ford.
All members of the audit direct access to the Company Secretary, directors needs and that each director committee are regarded as having recent who is a fully qualified solicitor and who is individually contributing to the overall and relevant financial experience.
The attends all board and committee meetings.
effectiveness and success of the group.
committee meetings are attended by the The Company Secretary is charged with Chief Executive, the Finance Director, providing timely and comprehensive Beyond the formal annual evaluation, the the group head of internal audit and the advice to the board on legal, regulatory performance of the executive directors is groups external auditors.
and governance issues, shareholder continuously monitored throughout the engagement matters, continuing director year by the Chairman and the Deputy The committee met 2 times in the year education and ensuring the timely Chairman.
Committee attendance was dissemination of information relevant to the as follows: groups activities and the statutory duties Directors conflicts of interest and obligation of the directors.
The articles of association of the company Attendance were amended at the 2008 annual general Lord Stone of Blackheath 2 In the year under review the board, once meeting, with effect from 1 October 2008, again, undertook an appraisal of its own to permit the board to consider and, if John McGuire 2 performance and effectiveness, that of appropriate, authorise conflict situations Ivan Fallon 2 the Chairman and that of its committees.
where a directors declared interest may The engagement of an external body conflict or does conflict with the interests Anna Ford 2 to manage the performance evaluation of the company.
process was considered but the board concluded that the approach adopted Directors were required to notify the The audit committee is charged with in the previous year remained robust Company Secretary of all potential or overseeing the nature and scope of the enough, appropriate and cost efficient actual conflict situations as at 1 October group audit process both internal and for the company.
The evaluation process 2008 and at that time procedures were external and its effectiveness.
This entails consisted of the individual completion of set in place to regularly report and record reviewing and approving the annual internal a questionnaire containing 26 detailed any conflicts which arise in a register to be audit programme and resources, meeting questions ranging from the effectiveness reviewed by the board at least annually.
with the internal and external auditors of individual members, the size and and considering the annual and interim number of board reports, relationships No conflicts have been reported as at the financial statements before submission to with management, the mix of skilldate of this report.
The committee receives and sets, individual contribution at board reviews the audit, audit-related and group meetings to the effectiveness of the Committee structure taxation reports provided by the external Company Secretary.
The questionnaire The board has delegated specific auditors, Deloitte LLP.
The committee also was completed by all directors in relation authorities to a number of sub committees reviews the groups system of internal risk control and reports its findings twice yearly to the board and also any committee of to deal with specific aspects of which they were a member.
The process management and to maintain supervision to the board.
On each occasion it meets, the committee will discuss audit and auditis designed to establish whether each over the internal control procedures of the director continues to meet the boards group.
These committees meet regularly related matters with the external auditors in the absence of the executive directors and requirements in terms of effective and have formal written terms of reference contribution, skills and devotion to the which are available for inspection on internal audit.
Additionally, the chairman of the committee also regularly attends the role.
The evaluation results were collated the companys website.
The minutes of by the Company Secretary for review by the meetings of these committees are groups head office and holds ad-hoc meetings with the Finance Director and the Chairman and then joint review by the circulated to all committee members in board.
The performance of the Chairman advance of the next following committee the groups head of internal audit.
The audit committee is also charged with the was reviewed and appraised by the senior meeting, at which they are ratified.
The non-executive director in consultation following committees of the board have oversight and management of the groups whistleblowing procedure which contains with the other board members.
The Chief been established: Executives performance was reviewed procedures for the committee to receive, in confidence, complaints on all operational and appraised by the Chairman and the Audit committee: non-executive directors.
The performance Remuneration committee: and matters.
of the Finance Director the only other Nomination committee.
executive director on the board was The committee has established a continuous process for identifying, carried out in a similar manner to the Chief After each committee meeting the Executive.
chairman of that committee makes a evaluating and managing the significant risks the group faces.
This monitoring is formal report to the board of directors The evaluation concluded that the board detailing the business carried out principally based on reviewing reports from management to consider whether and committees continue to operate well, by the committee and setting out its are effectively led and that robust, open recommendations.
significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether and frank discussion and challenge to 28 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report any significant weaknesses exist and and authorising the directors to set their including terms of reference, information are addressed.
The committee members remuneration will be proposed at the 2010 regarding the business and guidance on have also evaluated and scored their own annual general meeting.
their roles and duties as directors and specific assessment of key risks.
Further meetings site visits with key employee details are given later in this report.
Remuneration committee contacts are arranged as appropriate.
The remuneration committee consists The Company Secretary provides an The board consider that the processes entirely of non-executive directors regarded ongoing programme of briefings for of the audit committee continue to be by the company to be independent.
The directors covering legal and regulatory effective and to comply with the guidance current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
The other changes and developments relevant issued by the Smith Committee.
During members are Lord Stone of Blackheath, to the groups activities and directors the year under review the board has not John McGuire and Anna Ford.
been advised by the audit committee, nor identified itself, of any failings or The remuneration committee met 4 times During the year the nominations committee weaknesses in internal control which during the year.
Members attendance was did not have occasion to meet.
it has determined to be material.
as follows: Internal control The audit committee reviews the Attendance The directors have overall responsibility for appointment of the external auditors as ensuring that the group maintains a sound Lord Stone of Blackheath 4 well as their relationship with the group, system of internal control, to give them including monitoring the group's use of reasonable assurance regarding effective John McGuire 4 the auditors for non-audit services and and efficient operations and compliance Ivan Fallon 4 the balance of audit and non-audit fees with laws and regulations.
There are, of paid to the auditors.
Deloitte LLP have course, inherent limitations in any system Anna Ford 4 been the groups auditors for a number of of internal control and accordingly even years.
Having reviewed the independence the most effective system can provide and effectiveness of the external auditors, The purpose of this committee is to review, only reasonable, and not absolute, the committee has not considered it formulate and determine the remuneration assurance and management against necessary to require them to tender for package of each executive director and material misstatement, loss or failure.
Deloitte LLP have during other members of the board and to No system can guarantee elimination of the year also provided non-audit services consider how the company is applying the risk of failure to meet the objectives of to the company in the form of tax and the principles of the Code in respect of the business.
The board has established corporate finance advice.
a continuous process for identifying, committee is aware that providing audit evaluating and managing the significant and non-audit advice could give rise to a A comprehensive Remuneration Report is risks the group faces.
To address included in this Annual Report on pages this concern, the company has appointed 31 to 42.
The report will be put to an The groups ongoing assessment of risk independent advisors to provide advice on advisory vote by the members at the and continual review of the structure of executive remuneration issues and pension companys 2010 annual general meeting.
internal controls remains in place.
In order matters where appropriate.
These advisors to ensure key business developments do not provide the group with any other Nominations committee are appropriately factored into the risk services which could bring into question The nominations committee is chaired management process, internal audit their independence or provide any conflict by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other facilitated two specific board-level risk of interest further details are set out in the members are currently Lord Alliance sessions in the period.
The chief executive Remuneration Report on page 31. of Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon, John of the group and the finance director along McGuire and Anna Ford.
The formal terms with operational management reviewed As a result of its work during the year, of reference for this committee require it the key risks facing the business and the audit committee has concluded to make recommendations to the board appraised the structure of internal controls that it has acted in accordance with its for appointments of directors including to mitigate these risks.
In a separate terms of reference and has ensured the directors of the operating company session the audit committee provided a independence and objectivity of the board J D Williams & Company Limited top-down view of risks across strategic, external auditors.
and other senior executive staff.
Where financial and operational areas.
The results appropriate, the Chief Executive and were collated by internal audit and have The external auditors are required to rotate Company Secretary attend meetings of the been used as a key driver for the annual key audit personnel every five years.
internal audit plan and have been reported current lead audit partner, who has been to the board.
in place for five years, will be replaced The nominations committee evaluates for the next financial year end.
There board candidates on merit, against The risk committee focuses on reviewing are no contractual obligations restricting objective criteria, taking into account the managements activities to continually the groups choice of external auditor.
skills and experience required to perform monitor, reduce and eliminate the risks The committee has recommended that the duties of the post.
Operational management are the existing auditors, Deloitte LLP be external search consultants are engaged.
asked to present to the risk committee on reappointed.
a cyclical basis on the progress of agreed The Company Secretary is responsible actions against each major risk identified.
Deloitte LLP have signified their willingness for the induction of new directors.
The output from the risk committee is to continue in office and ordinary New directors are provided with a shared with the audit committee twice resolutions appointing them as auditors comprehensive pack of information annually, and the chief executive of the N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Corporate Governance Report group and audit committee chairman by Relations with investors exception, if required.
The group head of The company places considerable internal audit acts as the chairman of the importance on good communication risk committee.
with shareholders, both institutional and individual investors.
Institutional investors, In pursuance of the above, the board of fund managers and analysts are kept directors through and with the benefit informed of the companys overall strategy of the reports and recommendations of through regular meetings and company the audit committee has reviewed the roadshows.
All non-executive directors effectiveness of the system of internal risk are kept informed of shareholders views control for the year under review.
As well through detailed feedback on surveys and as receiving regular reports from the risk polls and analyst and broker reports are committee described above, the board tabled at each board meeting.
The senior through the audit committee discusses non-executive director makes himself with the external auditors and the internal available to meet with, and understand, audit department, the results of their work the views of major shareholders.
and any resulting internal control issues, including the implementation of action The company aims to ensure that all points arising from previous audits.
shareholders have full and timely access to the information it discloses in the The internal audit function is independent annual report, the yearly and half yearly of management and the head of the announcements and interim management function has direct access to the chairman statements and that shareholders have of the audit committee and the chief the opportunity to meet with the executive executive of the group.
Internal audit management team at least twice a year at plans are discussed and agreed annually the announcement of the groups results, between the group head of internal audit at the analysts financial presentation and and the audit committee.
also by constructive use of the annual general meeting.
Non-executive and Appropriate internal financial controls executive directors also attend meetings are in place throughout the group, some with shareholders on request.
As well as of which have already been referred being provided with a copy of the annual to in this statement.
Other examples report and results announcements, our include the existence of a well-defined website provides shareholders with group organisation structure, with comprehensive and accessible information clear lines of responsibility and explicit about the group and its activities.
authority delegated to divisional boards Shareholders views and feedback reports and executive management, and a are also included in the directors board comprehensive financial reporting system packs as and when received.
which communicates plans, budgets and monthly results to relevant levels of management, including the board.
The company has complied, and continues to comply, with the provisions of the Code on internal controls, and the relevant parts of the Turnbull and Smith Guidance.
There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the group that has been in place throughout the year under review and to the date of approval of the accounts.
This process has been reviewed by the audit committee and the board, and accords with guidance appended to the Code.
The board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be material.
30 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
