Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Risks and resources continued The Labour Government signalled its intention to proceed with the transfer of certain private drains and sewers into water company ownership, increasing the network owned and maintained by NWL by about 70%.
The timetable is slipping and we have still not seen the implementing regulations.
The earliest practical date of transfer is now October 2011, but further delay in issuing the regulations will result in a delay in the transfer date.
The costs associated with the transfer were not included in the PR09 price review.
It is, therefore, likely that all sewerage companies will see an adjustment to price limits in light of the transfer.
The full impact of another item of legislation, the Traffic Management Act 2004, is not yet clear, but the Labour Government indicated its desire to increase charges for disruptive roadworks.
The General Election has delayed Government measures in response to the Cave Review on competition and the Walker Review on charges and metering.
The new coalition Government has made some early statements about its desire to consider the Cave, Walker and Pitt reviews.
We expect this to provide greater clarity to the future direction of the industry.
If and when changes are proposed, NWL will work constructively to ensure that new legislation takes account of the practical needs of the industry.
Through 2007 to 2009, the company detected pesticides, metaldehyde and clopyralid, in its treated water at a number of sites, primarily in the Essex area.
Whilst these pesticides are not of concern to human health, they were detected at levels in excess of the regulatory standard.
As a result of this we agreed an undertaking with the DWI to carry out certain actions to mitigate the situation.
This has predominantly involved proactive catchment management with the appointment of two catchment officers who have been working with farmers and regulators to advise on better use of such pesticides.
Whilst this is likely to be a long term project, the early signs are very encouraging with the results detected this autumn and winter being significantly lower than the previous two years.
This is also a much more sustainable solution than the alternative, which would be to construct major new treatment processes to remove any residual pesticides.
Environmental, social and governance risks There are two environmental, social or governance risks considered to be significant to the value of the Group.
The first relates to the use of sewage sludge as a soil conditioner on agricultural land.
If this disposal route was lost, the sector would need to find or develop alternative ways to re-use or dispose of its sewage sludge.
