Corporate Corporate Directors Directors Governance governance report remuneration responsibilities report Group Corporate governance report Introduction and corporate governance statement The Board believes best practice in corporate governance is an important tool in helping it meet its responsibilities.
The Board considers that, during the year and up to the date of this report, it has complied with the main principles and provisions of the Combined Code 2008 the Code.
The Code is available to download from the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
cfm or, alternatively, printed copies can be obtained free of charge from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, email: customer.
co. uk This report, together with the directors remuneration report, describes how the Company has applied the principles of the Code during the year.
The Group has provided the information required under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
6 within the section headed Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive in the directors report and business review.
The board of NWL also maintains high standards of corporate governance and endeavours to comply with the Code, wherever practicable.
The Board also ensures that business is conducted in accordance with the Groups Code of Conduct, which addresses the Groups responsibilities to a range of stakeholders and for the environment.
This Code of Conduct is on the Companys website.
The Board The Board sets and implements the Companys strategy and ensures compliance with Group policies and legal and regulatory obligations.
The Groups mission and strategy is set out in the directors report and business review.
Board agendas are proposed by the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary, with input from NWLs management team, for approval by the Chairman.
The Company has adopted terms of reference which set out the matters reserved to the Board for approval and matters which are, or can be, delegated to the committees and management.
The Company has also adopted financial approval rules which set out the authorisation processes and financial limits to be applied within the Company to financial transactions.
NWL has adopted its own version of these guidelines.
Standing or Executive Committees can take decisions not delegated to specific committees between Board meetings.
All directors receive notice of Standing Committee meetings and may participate if they wish.
Decisions taken by the Standing or Executive Committees are reported at the next Board meeting.
The following table sets out the attendance of directors at Board and committee meetings during 2009 10: Board by Board telephone Nomination Remuneration Audit Number of meetings 6 1 5 3 3 1 Sir Derek Wanless 6 1 5 3 3 Sir Patrick Brown 6 1 5 3 3 1 1 John Cuthbert 6 1 2 3 3 1 Chris Green 6 1 3 1 Claude Lamoureux 6 1 4 2 1 Heidi Mottram 1 1 1 Martin Ngre 6 1 5 3 Alex Scott-Barrett 6 5 3 3 Jenny Williams 6 4 3 Notes: 1.
Not a member, but attended at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2010.
