Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 33 33 Statement of corporate governance Introduction Director election The following sections explain how the Company applies the main The rules that the Company has about the appointment and principles set out in section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate replacement of Directors are described in the Directors report.
Governance June 2008 issued by the Financial reporting Council the In order to maintain high standards of corporate governance, Combined Code, as required by the Listing rules of the Financial the Articles require each Director to retire at every annual Services Authority and where relevant, the main principles of the general meeting each Director may offer himself or herself for UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 issued by the Financial reappointment by the members at such meeting.
The Combined reporting Council the 2010 Code.
Code does not contain such a stringent requirement except The new 2010 Code applies to all companies with a premium listing for directors serving longer than nine years and this 2010 Code of equity shares with accounting periods beginning on or after 29 requirement did not apply to the Company for the current period.
Hence the 2010 Code is not applicable to the current However, each Director will seek re-election by shareholders at the period presented.
However, in anticipation of its application, the Companys AGM on 11 May 2011.
Board has voluntarily implemented a number of changes to its governance arrangements to reflect the requirements of the new John lewis Pension Fund right to appoint a director 2010 Code because the Board is committed to the highest standards As stated in the Companys prospectus on 6 July 2010, the of corporate governance.
John Lewis Pension Fund agreed with Ocado that Patrick Lewis, a Non-Executive Director originally appointed to the Board in October The Combined Code applies to the current period.
Prior to its 2009 by the John Lewis Pension Fund, would step down from the Admission on 26 July 2010, the Company was privately owned.
Ocado board if the John Lewis Pension Funds holding of ordinary Although not obliged prior to Admission to apply the Combined shares in Ocado falls below 10 per cent.
of the issued ordinary Code or the 2010 Code to its governance arrangements the share capital of Ocado.
On 11 February 2011, the company Company had voluntarily adopted some governance standards announced that John Lewis Pension Fund had sold its entire commensurate with a UK listed company as noted below.
As noted above, Patrick Lewis has resigned from the Board.
Since its recent Admission, the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, save as described below.
Where the Company has not complied the Chief Executive Officer reasons for non-compliance are stated, including the period where The Companys Chief Executive Officer is Tim Steiner.
His it has not complied if relevant.
recognising that it is a newly listed biographical details are set out on page 16. company the Board has the goal of moving the Company towards full compliance with all provisions of the 2010 Code as swiftly The Chairman as practicable.
The Company will continue to put in place new Lord Grade joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive governance arrangements in order to meet that objective.
Director and Chairman in 2006 and along with some of the other members of the Ocado Board, he became a Director of the Further information on the Combined Code and the 2010 Code can Company in March 2010.
His biographical details are set out on be found at www.
During the period, a Peerage of the United Kingdom for Life was conferred upon Michael.
He notified the Board of this new The Board commitment outside of the Company.
The Company is led by the Board.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the Division of responsibilities between Chairman and business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may Chief Executive Officer exercise all of the powers of the Company.
There is a clearly established and long-standing division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive The names, responsibilities and details of the current Directors on Officer which is set out in writing and has been approved by the the Board are set out in the Board of Directors section.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, the period there were a number of changes to the Board.
The ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He facilitates both Non-Executive Directors, Tom Clayton, Jonathan Faiman and Jeremy the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive Frampton resigned from the Ocado Limited board on 9 March 2010. relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The In addition, Michael robarts was appointed on 19 January 2010 as a Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day management, non-executive Director and resigned on 26 July 2010.
The Company operations and results of the Group, executing the strategy once announced on 18 February 2011 the resignation of Patrick Lewis agreed by the Board and making proposals to the Board for the from the Board.
strategic development of the Group.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of results, and allocates decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all external parties and in promoting the Company.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 34 34 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Statement of corporate governance continued Senior Independent Director The Chairman seeks to ensure the effective contribution of the David Grigson joined the Board of Ocado as an independent NonNon-Executive Directors and constructive relations between NonExecutive Director in February 2010 and along with some of the Executive Directors and Executive Directors, particularly during other members of the Ocado Board he became a Director of the discussions at Board meetings.
The Board appointed David to act as Senior Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment to the Board Independent Director.
His biographical details are set out on page 16. sets out clearly the expected time commitment from them to The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders of the the Company and at the time of appointment the relevant NonCompany to assist in resolving concerns of such shareholders.
Executive Director confirmed that that he or she is able to devote sufficient time as is necessary to the performance of his or her duties.
Independence The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors has The Combined Code recommends that at least half of the board sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
of directors of a UK listed company, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive independent in character and judgement and free from relationships Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, the office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM.
The Ocado Board comprises ten members, including the Chairman, two independent Non-Executive Directors, Conflicts of interests four Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors who are The Companies Act provides that directors must avoid a situation not deemed to be independent for the purposes of the Combined where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that Code.
The Company does not therefore currently comply with the conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
relevant requirements of the Combined Code in relation to the Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential balance of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors, conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association although it intends to do so.
The Company expects that as existing members of the Board step down Each Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment sets out and new directors are appointed, the Company will become compliant the requirement for disclosing conflicts to the Chairman and the with the Combined Code and the 2010 Code in this respect.
As part of the Companys preparation for Admission each Director completed a questionnaire which required Of the six Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the Chairman, them to disclose any conflicts of interests.
Other than Patrick Lewis David Grigson and ruth Anderson are independent as defined in the noted above, no Director has any actual or potential conflicts of Combined Code.
However: interest between any of his duties to the Company and his private robert Gorrie is not deemed independent for the purposes of interests and or other duties.
the Combined Code because he was an Executive Director of Whenever a Director takes on additional external responsibilities, the Ocado from April 2000 until April 2006 and a Non-Executive Board considers any potential conflicts that may arise.
The Board will Director from May 2006 until March 2010 when, along with continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a some of the other members of the Board, he became a Director regular basis.
He also provides consulting services to the Group under a separate consulting agreement.
Notwithstanding, the Board considers robert to be independent: The Boards role The Board has a number of key responsibilities and formally reserved Jrn rausing is not deemed independent for the purposes of powers.
The Board has responsibility for the overall management the Combined Code because the Apple Trust of which of the Group and for setting and reviewing the Groups long-term he is a beneficiary is a major shareholder of the Company.
objectives and commercial strategy, including determination of the Notwithstanding, the Board considers Jrn to be independent: nature and extent of the significant risks that the Board is willing and to take to implement its commercial strategy.
The Board has set out a clear schedule of matters reserved for Board decisions such David Young is not deemed independent for the purposes of schedule was approved by the Board prior to the Companys the Combined Code because he was a Non-Executive Director Admission.
Other reserved matters include approval of: the annual of Ocado from October 2000 to March 2010 when, along with report and half-yearly report: the Groups budgets: the authority Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement some of the other members of the Board, he became a Director levels for capital expenditure: the treasury policy: and any governance of the Company.
Notwithstanding, the Board considers David to policies.
The Board delegates to management the detailed implementation Non-Executive Directors of matters approved by the Board and the day-to-day operational The Non-Executive Directors have wide and varied skills and aspects of the business.
The Executive Directors and the management commercial experience which they bring to the deliberations of the committee meet twice weekly to review operational performance Board and the committees, as well as their independent judgment on and to monitor implementation of certain projects.
Management has Group strategy, risk and performance.
The Board considers that its authority to undertake capital expenditure without Board approval up size and composition and that its balance of skills and experience is to certain pre-approved expenditure thresholds and above which the appropriate for the requirements of the business.
expenditure must be elevated to the Board for approval.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 35 35 The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal During the period the Boards key activity was overseeing the committees, namely the Audit Committee, the remuneration preparation of the Company for Admission.
In addition the Board Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The committees keep approved the entry into a new 10-year branding and sourcing the full Board apprised of their work and refer matters requiring arrangement with John Lewis and Waitrose.
resolution to the full Board for approval as appropriate.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of financial information Attendance and reviews the effectiveness of the financial controls and the The table below shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled internal control and risk management systems.
The remuneration Board and committee meetings during the period.
The Board Committee sets the remuneration policy for Executive Directors had scheduled 10 meetings during the year and additional ad hoc and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The meetings and conference calls were also convened to deal with Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Directors specific matters, including the Companys Admission, which often and has responsibility for evaluating the balance of the Board and for required attention between scheduled meetings.
Directors leave a succession planning at Board level.
Further details concerning the meeting where the matters being discussed relate to them or which committees of the Board are set out below.
The Company expects may constitute a conflict of interest to them.
From 9 March 2010 to establish other committees in certain areas including corporate onwards the main Board and committees were constituted with the social responsibility.
The purpose of the corporate social responsibility Company and not Ocado, when the Directors were appointed to committee would be to review and update the Companys existing the Company Board as noted above.
The composition of each of corporate social responsibility policies, and monitor the Companys the committees changed during the period, as described in the Board formal corporate social responsibility objectives and plan.
committees description set out below.
Board of Directors Audit Committee remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Executive Directors Tim Steiner 21 21 Neill Abrams 23 23 Andrew Bracey 23 23 Jason Gissing 21 21 Non-Executive Directors Lord Grade Chairman 21 21 1 1 1 1 ruth Anderson 18 19 4 4 1 1 1 1 robert Gorrie 20 21 5 5 1 1 1 David Grigson 17 19 3 3 1 1 Jrn rausing 21 21 2 2 1 1 David Young 17 21 5 5 2 2 1 Former Directors Patrick Lewis 14 21 Michael robarts 14 17 Jeremy Frampton 2 3 Jonathan Faiman 2 3 Tom Clayton 2 3 Patrick Lewis and Michael robarts did not attend meetings on 25 May 2010 and 28 June 2010 because the sole subject matter of each of those meetings concerned the negotiations for the new branding and sourcing agreement between the Company and Waitrose and the John Lewis Pension Fund director appointment rights.
Both Patrick and Michael were appointed to the Board by the John Lewis Pension Fund which was a major shareholder in the Company during the period.
Jeremy Frampton, Jonathan Faiman and Tom Clayton resigned from the Ocado Limited board on 9 March 2010.
Michael robarts resigned Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement from the Board of the Company on 26 July 2010.
Patrick Lewis resigned from the Board of the Company on 15 February 2011.
Information and professional development Directors appointed to the Board during the period participated The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are in an induction programme including a CFC visit and meetings with properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they members of senior management and certain key employees, for have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and example, in the finance department.
The Company intends to expand supply of information provided to the Board will be reviewed as part this induction program in future taking account of feedback from new of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Board intends that in future the Board programme will include regular presentations from management to help maintain the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 36 36 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Statement of corporate governance continued The need for Director training is assessed by the Board from In conjunction with the implementation of this Board evaluation time-to-time.
In conjunction with the Companys Admission, the process, the Nomination Committee recommended that in due Company Secretary, Neill Abrams, arranged for the Directors to course, the Chairman separately review the contribution of each of receive information and a presentation on the duties and obligations the Directors with them.
Training for Directors is available on an Subsequent to the period end, the Chairman and the Non-Executive ongoing basis to meet any particular needs.
Directors met without the Executive Directors being present, as The committees have access to sufficient resources to discharge required by the Combined Code.
The Senior Independent Director their duties, as required by the Combined Code.
In this regard, and the Non-Executive Directors also met without the Executive remuneration consultants had advised the remuneration Committee Directors or the Chairman being present, as required by the Combined on executive remuneration during the period.
The Audit Committee Code, and subsequently met with the Chairman to provide feedback.
received updates from the Groups auditors on technical accounting The explanatory notes set out in the Notice of Meeting for the AGM issues or developments when required.
The Company retained the state the reasons that the Board believes each Director proposed for services of professional services consultants for the recruitment of re-election at the AGM should be re-appointed.
The Board is assisted by the Company Secretary, Neill Abrams, who Board committees reports to the Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
As envisaged by the Combined Code, the Board has established All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company three committees: a Nomination Committee, a remuneration Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures Committee and an Audit Committee.
The Chairman of each are followed and for governance matters.
The Company Secretary, committee provides a report or update of each meeting of the under the direction of the Chairman, was responsible for ensuring respective committee to the Board at the following Board meeting.
good information flows within the Board and its committees, as required under the Combined Code.
The appointment and removal Nomination Committee of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the The Nomination Committees principal responsibility is to keep Board.
the composition and balance of the Board under review, consider succession planning, lead the process for Board appointments and Members of the Board may take independent professional advice at make recommendations to the Board on all new appointments the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
and re-appointments of Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations for the membership of the Director insurance and indemnities Audit and remuneration Committees.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance cover for its Directors and officers as permitted under the Meetings: The Nomination Committee meets when necessary and Companys Articles and the Companies Act.
Such insurance policies will normally meet no fewer than two times a year.
The Nomination were renewed during the period and remain in force.
The Company Committee met once since it was constituted around the time of the also indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity deed with each Companys Admission.
It met primarily to discuss the composition of Director which contain provisions that are permitted by the director the Board and the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
The indemnity deeds were entered into by each Director at the time Members: The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Grigson, of Companys Admission.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and all of the other Non-Executive Directors including the as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act were in force Chairman are members.
during the period and remain in force for the benefit of the Directors Independence: The Combined Code requires a majority of the and any officer of the Company or of any associated company.
members of the Nomination Committee to be independent NonExecutive Directors.
As explained above, while the Board considers Board performance evaluation its Non-Executive Directors on the Nomination Committee to be The performance of the Board is important to the success of the independent, from the perspective of the Combined Code only three Group and accordingly the Board considers that reviewing its of the members of the Nomination Committee David Grigson, performance is helpful.
During the period, each of the Executive Lord Grade and ruth Anderson are independent.
Therefore the Directors was subject to a full performance evaluation from each Company does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement other and the management committee.
This process will be repeated annually.
The Nomination Committee recommended to the Prior to the Companys Admission, the Company recruited two new Board that the Board should be subject to an annual performance independent Non-Executive Directors, to supplement the existing evaluation in 2011, as required by the 2010 Code.
In due course, the Non-Executive Directors.
This process was led by the Chairman as Nomination Committee will agree who will conduct the evaluation prior to the Companys Admission, the Nomination Committee had exercise, the key objectives of the appraisal, a process for conducting not been constituted.
Professional services consultants, The Zygos the evaluation and a means of comparing the results with evaluations Partnership, was instructed by the Chairman in connection with this in future years.
The Nomination Committee expects that the process.
Following an extensive search, the Chairman recommended performance evaluation will cover the performance of the Board, to the Board that David Grigson and ruth Anderson be appointed as each of the Board committees and the individual Directors.
Both were appointed to the Company Board in March 2010.
com 37 37 The Company had previously stated its objective to re-balance the Meetings: The remuneration Committee will normally meet no Board in favour of Non-Executive Directors who are considered fewer than two times a year.
During the period, the remuneration independent under the 2010 Code.
During the period, the Committee met on two occasions.
Nomination Committee recommended that one new independent Duties: The remuneration Committees key duties are as follows: Non-Executive Director be sought and since the end of the period the recruitment of such new director to the Board was led by the approve the design of, and determine targets for, any chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Professional services performance related pay schemes operated by the Group consultants, Lygon Group, were instructed by the chairman of the ensuring that the performance related elements of Executive Nomination Committee in connection with this process.
Here the Directors remuneration are stretching and designed to promote Nomination Committee considered the skills, knowledge, background the long-term success of the Company and Group and annual and experience required for the role, and prepared a job specification payments made under such schemes.
In designing such schemes, for the role.
A number of Directors including the chairman of the the remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in Nomination Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer Schedule A to the 2010 Code: and other Directors interviewed candidates for the role of NonExecutive Director.
The Nomination Committee also specified review the design of all new long-term schemes and significant the time commitment expected of the role and confirmed with changes to such schemes for approval, in each case, by the candidates that each had sufficient time available to devote to Board and shareholders save in the circumstances permitted by the role.
For any such schemes, determine each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of The Company will continue to actively seek to recruit new nonsuch awards and the individual awards to Executive Directors: executive directors so that the Board meets the independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
The Nomination Committee determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements if will continue to meet regularly to consider the Board size and any for each Executive Director: composition and to ensure that plans are in place for the orderly succession of appointments to the Board, as required by the ensure that contractual terms on termination, and any payments 2010 Code.
made, are fair to the individual, and the Company or the relevant member of the Group as applicable, that failure is not rewarded The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
com   Committee should aim to avoid rewarding poor governance.
aspx and set out the Nomination Committees performance and take a robust line on reducing compensation to responsibilities.
reflect departing Directors obligation to mitigate loss: ensure that notice or contract periods should be set at one year Remuneration Committee or less: Role: The role of the remuneration Committee is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration policy for the Chairman within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with of the Board and the Executive Directors.
This includes base the Chairman and or Chief Executive Officer as appropriate, salary, annual and long-term incentive entitlements and awards and determine the total individual remuneration package of each pension arrangements.
In determining the remuneration policy, the Executive Director and the Chairman including bonuses, remuneration Committee takes into account many factors including incentive payments, share options or other share awards and any the need for a significant proportion of the Executive Directors compensation payments giving due regard to any relevant legal remuneration to be structured so as to link rewards to business and requirements and guidance : individual performance, as required by the Combined Code.
review and note annually the remuneration trends across the Members: The remuneration Committee is chaired by David Young, Group: and its other members are ruth Anderson, robert Gorrie and Jrn rausing.
During the period, the composition of the remuneration oversee any major changes in employee benefits structures Committee changed.
Prior to Admission of the Company the throughout the Group: remuneration Committee comprised David Young as chairman, Lord Grade and Jrn rausing.
review the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman: Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Independence: The Combined Code requires a board to establish a remuneration Committee of at least three independent Nonensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration, Executive Directors.
As explained above, while the Board considers including pensions, are fulfilled: each of its Non-Executive Directors on the remuneration Committee to be independent, from the perspective of the Combined Code the only member of the remuneration Committee who is independent is ruth Anderson.
Therefore the Company does not comply with the Combined Code in this respect.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 38 38 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Statement of corporate governance continued be responsible for establishing the selection criteria, selecting, Gorrie.
As required by the Combined Code, at least one member appointing and setting the terms of reference for any of the Audit Committee is considered by the Board to have remuneration consultants who advise the remuneration recent and relevant financial experience.
The biography of each Committee: and member of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 16 and 17.
The Chief Financial Officer, Andrew Bracey, and senior members obtain reliable, up-to-date information about remuneration of the finance department and the auditors regularly attended the in other companies, with a view to judging where to position Audit Committee meetings.
During the period, the composition the Company relative to other companies.
The remuneration of the Audit Committee changed.
Prior to March 2010, the Audit Committee shall have full authority to commission any reports or Committee members comprised David Young and robert Gorrie.
surveys which it deems necessary to help it fulfil its obligations.
Committee Independence: The Combined Code requires a board to The remuneration Committee has produced the Directors establish an Audit Committee of at least three independent Nonremuneration report see page 41 and will put it to the Companys Executive Directors.
As explained above, while the Board considers shareholders for approval at the AGM on 11 May 2011. each of its Non-Executive Directors on the Audit Committee to be independent, from the perspective of the Combined Code only two of The remuneration Committee was advised by remuneration the four members of the Audit Committee ruth Anderson and David consultants, Towers Perrin now Towers Watson, on certain Grigson are independent.
Therefore the Company does not comply remuneration issues.
Towers Watson was appointed by the with the Combined Code in this respect.
The remuneration Committee is satisfied that there is no connection between the Company and Towers The auditors had direct access to the chairman of the Audit Watson.
In addition, the remuneration Committee received advice Committee and had meetings with her without the Groups finance from  LLP, Slaughter and May and Appleby executives present.
Since the period end, the Audit Committee met Trust Jersey Limited in connection with the implementation of the with the Groups finance executives without the auditors present.
is intended that the Audit Committee will also meet solely with the auditors.
The Board considers that the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
Auditors independence: The Combined Code requires that the Board establish formal arrangements for maintaining an appropriate The remuneration arrangements for Non-Executive Directors do not relationship with its auditors and explain how auditor objectivity and include share options.
However, the Non-Executive Director, robert independence is maintained.
Following the end of the period, the Gorrie, holds share options in the Company which were granted to Audit Committee developed and implemented the Companys policy him while he held the position of Executive Director of the Company.
which restricts the engagement of its auditors in relation to non-audit services to help ensure that provision of non-audit services by the The Board determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive auditors do not have an impact on the independence and objectivity Directors within the limits set in the Companys Articles.
The policy applies the guidance set out in the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial reporting The remuneration Committee will, in due course, undertake an Council in December 2010. annual review of its own performance and terms of reference to ensure it is operating effectively and recommend any changes it The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by considers necessary to the Board for approval.
 LLP during the period related to the Companys Admission.
The total of non-audit fees paid to The remuneration Committees terms of reference are available  LLP during the period is set out in the notes on the website www.
com  to the financial statements.
Since the end of the period, the Audit corporate-governance.
aspx and set out the remuneration Committee has received a regular update from management on any Committees responsibilities.
non-audit services being provided by  LLP and the cumulative total of any non-audit fees.
Audit Committee Role: The Audit Committees principal roles are to monitor the  LLP also follows its own ethical guidelines financial reporting process and the integrity of the financial statements and the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard 5 Non-Audit of the Group and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Services Provided to Audited Entities, and continually reviews its audit controls, risk management and audit.
Its review of audit includes Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement team to ensure its independence is not compromised.
monitoring the effectiveness and independence of the auditors, including the provision of additional services by the auditors to Auditors re-appointment: In relation to the auditors, the Audit the Group.
Committee reviewed the effectiveness and performance of the audit team and received assurances from the auditors regarding Meetings: The Audit Committee will normally meet no fewer than their independence.
On the basis of this review, the Audit three times a year and during the period it met on five occasions to Committee recommended to the Board the re-appointment of coincide with the Companys reporting timetable and its Admission.
 LLP as auditors to the Company.
The Board accepted this recommendation and this will be put to the Members: The Audit Committee is chaired by ruth Anderson, and shareholders at the AGM on 11 May 2011. its other members are David Grigson, David Young and robert 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 39 39 Principal activities of the Audit Committee: The Audit Committee purposes of Schedule 46 of Finance Act 2009.
The Companys Senior discharged its responsibilities in a number of ways, as described below.
Accounting Officer is responsible for ensuring and certifying that appropriate tax accounting arrangements have been established and Internal controls: The Audit Committee received and considered are maintained by the Company.
The Company plans to carry out an reports during the period on the work undertaken by its auditors assessment of its tax accounting arrangements, systems and processes in reviewing and auditing the control environment and reviewing for corporation tax, vAT and payroll tax.
the financial reporting procedures, which the Audit Committee took into account in assessing the quality and effectiveness of the Groups GSCOP: The Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP which systems of internal control.
became effective in 2010 does not apply to the Company, so it is not obliged to implement any measures to accommodate this code.
Financial reporting: The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups Nevertheless, the Company is taking steps to prepare for the likely financial statements including, prior to the period end, a review of application of GSCOP in future, including documenting written the significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
It reviewed terms of supply with all suppliers.
The Audit Committee will monitor the basis for preparing the Group consolidated financial statements this code and consider any preparations for implementation of the on a going concern basis and disclosures in the financial statements.
GSCOP codes requirements if the need arises in future.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviewed the two interim management statements made by the Company prior to publication.
Terms of reference: The Audit Committees terms of reference, which are available on the website www.
com corporateExternal auditors: The Audit Committee agreed the approach and responsibility corporate-governance.
aspx, set out the Audit scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the auditors.
the Groups processes for disclosing information to the auditors.
The Audit Committee reviewed, with the auditors, the findings of their Internal control work and agreed the fees payable in relation to the audit for the The Board has oversight of the system of internal controls for the period.
As noted above, it also agreed and implemented a policy in Company and for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system.
relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
Certain of these responsibilities have been delegated to the Audit Committee, which reports to the Board.
Management is responsible Internal audit: The Group does not have a dedicated internal audit for implementing and maintaining the necessary internal control function, although internal reviews of the Groups operations are systems and processes.
undertaken periodically by senior financial staff.
The Audit Committee and the Board have considered the need for an internal audit The Audit Committee has, in the period, reviewed the effectiveness function and concluded that, given the Groups size and structure, it of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, is not necessary at this time.
The need for an internal audit function operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
will be monitored and developed as the size and complexity of the As noted above, its review had included consideration of reports Group increases.
prepared during the period by the Companys auditors.
Treasury committee: The Audit Committee approved the terms of A system of internal controls has been in place during the period, reference of the treasury committee which was established in June up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It reports periodically to the Audit Committee and must The Company has made significant improvements to the Groups obtain the Audit Committees approval if it wishes to carry out system of internal controls to address issues raised in the reviews, in actions that go beyond the scope of its remit set out in the treasury connection with the continuing expansion of the Groups business policy.
The treasury committees role is to oversee the Companys and to recognise the more robust and formal control measures treasury framework and working capital management as set out in needed after the Companys Admission.
the treasury policy and review compliance with the treasury policy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the controls in place are Review and risk: Since the period end, the Audit Committee has appropriate.
However, it is mindful that the internal control system is received a report on key risks prepared by management and this, designed to manage rather than eliminate risk in order to achieve the together with plans to mitigate such risks, will be reviewed regularly.
Companys strategy and business objectives and so can only provide In future, it is intended that the Audit Committee will receive reasonable and not absolute assurance against loss.
individual reports in key areas such as IT security and controls, risk management, fraud and bribery.
The main features of the Companys internal control and risk Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement management systems in relation to the financial reporting process as Whistle blowing: The Audit Committee receives an update at each required under the Disclosure and Transparency rules are: of its meeting on frauds and improprieties raised through the Companys whistle blowing procedures.
The Companys whistle an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, blowing procedure, which allows the Companys employees to report control and authority: concerns anonymously, is set out in the employee handbook.
comprehensive management information systems for providing Bribery Act: Towards the end of the period, the Company introduced management with financial and operational performance a gifts policy.
The Company proposes to update this policy in light of measurement indicators each week.
This information is the Bribery Act 2010 due to come into force in 2011. summarised monthly and reviewed by the Board: Tax controls: Towards the end of the period, the Company appointed its Group treasurer as the Senior Accounting Officer for the 20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 40 40 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Statement of corporate governance continued formal budgeting and re-forecasting processes.
variances from The Audit Committee is also concerned with financial risk budget and forecasts are monitored and explained to the Board management.
The treasury committee reports to it on financial risk by management: management issues such as hedging the Companys exposure to movements in interest rates and currency, as noted above.
a capital approval policy that controls the Groups capital expenditure that can be undertaken without Executive Director Investor relations or Board approval: The Company is committed to maintaining constructive communications with its shareholders.
Normal shareholder contact is monitoring the progress of major projects, including the second the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, Tim Steiner, the Chief CFC project, by management and the Executive Directors and by Financial Officer, Andrew Bracey and the head of investor relations.
the Board: The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to the Company's shareholders to discuss any of their concerns.
a review of key accounting policies by the Audit Committee each year: and The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional a review of reports on any whistle blowing and fraudulent shareholders who, along with analysts, are invited to presentations by activity by employees or suppliers is undertaken by the Audit the Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys Committee.
The Chairman will occasionally attend these presentations by the Company to investors.
The Board regularly receives feedback from the Executive Directors on the views of major shareholders and Risk management the investor relations programme and also receives regular reports The Board accepts that risk is an inherent part of the business.
The on the main changes to the composition of the Companys share Companys formal risk management system was put in place in register.
One of the Company's largest shareholders, the Apple Trust, conjunction with the Companys Admission.
The Companys risk has a representative Director on the Board.
management system is designed to identify key risks and provide assurance that these risks are fully understood and managed.
All shareholders can access the annual report, trading statements, investor presentations and regular announcements on the Companys The Companys risk management department undertook a businesscorporate website www.
All shareholders can wide risk and controls assessment in 2010, identifying any actions to choose to receive an annual report either in paper or electronic form.
mitigate risk and implement new control procedures where necessary.
The risk management assessment undertaken in 2010 consisted of The Companys AGM formal identification by each department of the key risks to achieve Shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question the their business objectives and the controls in place to manage them.
The AGM of Ocado Group plc will be held at This exercise was facilitated by the head of risk management.
2 pm on 11 May 2011 at One Bunhill row, London EC1Y 8YY.
The risk management department maintains a risk register which was compiled as a result of this risk assessment.
The risk register lists all A detailed explanation of each item of business to be considered of the key risks that face the Company in achieving its objectives.
It at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be identifies the potential impact and likelihood of each risk both, before sent to shareholders before the AGM.
To allow for maximum taking into account any mitigating controls and after any mitigating shareholder input, the Company offers electronic proxy voting and factors are taken into account.
Some actions necessary to mitigate voting through the CrEST electronic proxy appointment service.
some of these risks have been identified and discussed by the risk The Broad proposes that all resolutions proposed at the AGM will be management department and the heads of each relevant department.
This follows best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders Subsequent to the period end, the risk management department who attend the meeting.
The Company expects that the Chairman provided a report to the Audit Committee to allow it to review will announce the provisional voting results at the meeting.
It is expected that in due course, the Audit final voting results will be announced by the Company immediately Committee will make some recommendations for taking actions to following the AGM via the regulatory News Service and will also be mitigate risks and agreeing specific timelines for taking such actions.
available on the Companys corporate website www.
These agreed actions will then be monitored by the risk management com.
department until they are implemented.
Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement Share capital, voting rights and significant shareholders The effectiveness of the risk management process will be reviewed Details concerning the Companys share capital, significant by the Audit Committee which then reports to the Board.
The shareholders, special rights, voting rights and other matters as Company intends that the risk management department will report required by the Disclosure and Transparency rule 7.2 are set out in to the Audit Committee summarising the risk management process the Directors report.
The Audit Committee will report to the Board thereafter.
As part of the Boards oversight of risk, it receives an update at each Board meeting on health and safety issues.
Any specific issues which might affect the Companys reputation are reported to the Board as they occur.
