48 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Board of directors Chairman Executive directors Glen Moreno, chairman, aged 67, Marjorie Scardino, chief executive, aged Will Ethridge, chief executive, Pearson wasappointed chairman of Pearson 64, joined the Pearson board in January North American Education, aged 59, on1October 2005 and is chairman 1997.
She trained and practised as a joined the Pearson board in May 2008, ofthe nomination committee.
He was lawyer, and was chief executive of The having held a number of senior positions appointed deputy chairman of The Economist Group from 1993 until joining within Pearson Education, including Financial Reporting Council Limited in Pearson.
She is also vice chairman of CEO of the International and Higher November 2010.
He is also the senior Nokia Corporation and on the boards of Education divisions.
He is chairman of independent director of Lloyds Banking several charitable organisations.
In 2010 CourseSmart, a publishers digital retail Group plc as well as a non-executive she was named a fellow of the American consortium and chairman of the director of Fidelity International Limited.
Academy of Arts and Sciences.
He was previously the senior independent director of Man Group plc and acting chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, the company set upby HM Treasury to manage the governments shareholdings in UK banks.
Non-executive directors David Arculus, aged 64, is a Patrick Cescau, aged 62, is the senior Susan Fuhrman, aged 66, is president of non-executive director of Telefnica S. A. independent director of Tesco plc and a Teachers College at Columbia University, He is also chairman of Numis director of INSEAD, the Business School Americas oldest and largest graduate Corporation plc and in October 2010 for the World.
In September 2010, he school of education and president of the was appointed chairman of Aldermore joined the board of IAG, the International National Academy of Education.
His previous roles include Consolidated Airlines Group, S. A.
He previously dean of the Graduate School chairman of O plc, Severn Trent plc and was previously group chief executive of of Education at the University of 2 IPC Group, chief operating officer of Unilever.
He became a non-executive Pennsylvania and on the board of United Business Media plc and group director of Pearson in April 2002 trustees of the Carnegie Foundation managing director of EMAP plc.
He andsenior independent director forthe Advancement of Teaching.
Shebecame a non-executive director Pearson in February 2006 and is chairman ofPearson in July 2004. of the remuneration committee.
