remuneration Committee Groups 2010 Annual Corporate Responsibility serve to ensure that a culture of effective report which includes esG matters.
control and risk management is embedded the remuneration committee was chaired within the organisation and that the Group by Martin Angle during the year and also Committees terms of referenCe is in a position to react appropriately to new comprised Gerard connell and dinah nichols.
the terms of reference of the Audit, risks as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting the committee met on seven occasions remuneration, nomination and corporate the Group are set out in the Business review.
All members were present at Responsibility Committees are available each meeting.
the committee is responsible upon request to the Company Secretary and internal Control frameWorK for determining the Groups remuneration are also set out on the Companys website As well as the risk management policy policy, remuneration and terms of engagement pennon-group.
co. uk and procedures of the Group there is an of the chairman and the remuneration established internal control framework which and terms of employment of the Executive is operated and which applies in relation directors and senior Management of the internal Control to the process for preparing the Groups Group.
Members of the remuneration consolidated accounts.
This framework committee do not participate in decisions WiDer asPeCts of internal comprises: concerning their own remuneration.
the Control directors remuneration report, which also a a clearly defined structure which delegates provides more information on the activities the Board is responsible for maintaining an appropriate level of authority, of the remuneration committee, appears on the Groups system of internal control to responsibility and accountability, including pages 41 to 48. safeguard shareholders investment and responsibility for internal financial control, the Groups assets and for reviewing its to management of operating units: nomination Committee effectiveness.
The system is designed to b a comprehensive budgeting and reporting manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure The Nomination Committee was chaired by function with an annual budget approved to achieve business objectives and can only Ken Harvey and also comprised Martin Angle, by the Board of Directors, which also provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Gerard connell and dinah nichols.
It meets as monitors the financial reporting process, against material misstatement or loss.
there is and when required to select and recommend monthly results and updated forecasts for an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating to the Board suitable candidates for the year against budget: and managing the significant risks faced by appointment as Executive and Non-executive c documented financial control procedures.
the Group that has been in place throughout directors, determine the nomination process Managers of operating units are required the financial year 2009 10 and up to the date and review succession plans.
It is the practice to confirm annually that they have of the approval of this Annual report and of the Committee, led by the Chairman, to adequate financial controls in operation Accounts.
appoint an external search consultancy to and to report all material areas of financial assist in any Board appointments.
During the The Board confirms that it continues to apply risk.
Compliance with procedures is year it met on three occasions to consider procedures in accordance with the combined reviewed and tested by the Companys the annual performance evaluation results for Code and the Guidance on Internal Control internal audit function: the committee, to review succession planning the turnbull Guidance which suggests d an investment appraisal process for for the Group and to consider an Executive means of applying the internal control part evaluating proposals for all major capital Directors appointment in an advisory role to of the code.
As part of these procedures expenditure and acquisitions, with defined an external body.
All members were present the Board has a formalised risk management levels of approval and a system for at each meeting.
policy which provides for the identification of monitoring the progress of capital key risks in relation to the achievement of the projects: and CorPorate resPonsiBility business objectives of the Group.
This policy is e a post-investment evaluation process for Committee applied by all business units within the Group major capital expenditure and acquisitions in accordance with an annual timetable.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee to assess the success of the project and was chaired by Dinah Nichols and also learn any lessons to be applied to future risK iDentifiCation comprised Martin Angle, Gerard connell and projects.
A full risk and control assessment is the Chief Executives of South West Water undertaken annually by the management of and Viridor.
It met on five occasions during each business to identify financial and nonthe year at which all members were present.
financial risks and is continuously updated.
The Committees duties, in the context of the each business compiles as part of its regular requirement for companies to conduct their management reports an enhanced and business in a responsible manner including focussed assessment of key risks against in relation to environmental, social and corporate objectives.
the Board at each governance esG matters, are to review the meeting receives from the Executive Directors strategies, policies, management, initiatives, details of any new high-level risks identified targets and performance of the Pennon Group and how they are to be managed, together of companies in the areas of occupational with details of any changes to existing risks health and safety and security: environment: and their management.
The subsidiary Boards workplace policies: corporate policies: nonof South West Water and Viridor also receive financial regulatory compliance and the role of at each meeting similar reports in respect of the Group in society.
their own areas of responsibility.
All Executive Directors and senior managers are required In reporting on corporate responsibility, the to certify on an annual basis that they have Company has sought to comply with the effective controls in place to manage risks and Association of British Insurers Guidelines to operate in compliance with legislation and on responsible Investment disclosure.
All of these processes Business review on pages 2 to 37 contains the Pennon GrouP AnnuAl rePort And Accounts | 2010 | P. 51
