COmmUNITY, CORPORATE EmPLOYEES The company works with the Consumer RESPONSIBILITY AND SPONSORSHIP South West Waters people strategy Council for Water to ensure that customers South West Water concentrates its continues to focus on recruiting and issues and concerns are addressed and a full sponsorship on community projects and developing individuals who can support understanding of the companys activities is organisations within its service area which are the delivery of the companys Pure vision, maintained.
linked to water, benefit the environment or enabling the provision of a high quality promote youth participation.
service to customers and the achievement of PROCUREmENT AND SUPPLIERS operational efficiencies.
South West Waters procurement strategy Highlights in 2009 10 included the staging is focussed on partnering and strategic of a series of environmental walks with Technical and managerial skills training have alliances with 60 key suppliers who account Cornwall Wildlife Trust around the coastline underpinned the companys Puros project.
for the large majority of expenditure.
to mark the completion of a pipe replacement A range of other learning programmes to Regular meetings are held to manage scheme at Looe and sponsoring the Nipper support the development of customer facing performance, encourage sustainable youth championships of the Surf Life Saving and operational skills continue to form a business activity and to identify and deliver Association of Great Britain at Falmouth.
fundamental part of our strategy.
continuous improvement opportunities for reducing costs further whilst improving Other supported events ranged from the Employee involvement and participation in performance and service levels.
TRAIL environmental art sculpture festival on all aspects of business and organisational the South West Coast Path between Dawlish change is encouraged and supported through The company has successfully completed a and Shaldon and the opening of Pynes water the companys Staff Council and craft and programme of tendering strategic contracts treatment works, Brokenbury waste water industrial consultative forums.
in preparation for the K5 period and has treatment works and Mary Tavy hydro power established a new H O Delivery Alliance 5 station for guided public tours during the structure for delivery of its 2010-15 capital national Heritage Open Days.
This will enable the company KEY RELATIONSHIPS to work closely with suppliers, particularly For the third year the company also small and medium-sized businesses co-sponsored South West Tourisms annual REGULATORS AND OTHERS across the South West, ensuring value for awards and funded the sustainable tourism Relationships with regulators, Government money for customers and supporting the prize.
This demonstrates how its Clean and its agencies, customer representative regional economy.
Sweep project has helped underpin the organisations and its customers are central renaissance of tourism, the regions number to South West Waters operations.
The No supplier revenue accounts for more one industry.
company maintains a continuing dialogue with than 5% of revenue and South West Water Ofwat, the Environment Agency and the sources all its purchases from competitive The company is proud to support the Drinking Water Inspectorate.
South West Waters electricity water industry charity, WaterAid, through to national policy on developing issues supplies have been secured to 2014 through sponsorship and many other fundthrough its membership of Water UK, the recently negotiated fixed price contracts.
raising activities such as the publication industry trade body.
of a calendar featuring water-themed photographs taken by Group employees.
South West Water achieved a Green Apple award for transforming a disused sludge lagoon into a pond for wildlife with a number of other habitat improvements around its water treatment works site at Tottiford, near Bovey Tracey.
This project was shortlisted as a finalist in the Community Campaign of the Year category of the Water Industry Achievement Awards.
This recognises the way South West Water engaged with adults with learning difficulties for the supply of bat, bird and dormouse boxes now fitted across the site.
HO Delivery Alliance in place for 5 the 2010-15 capital programme P. 20 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW
