Viridor promotes positive working relationships with regulators and communities SOCIAL AND COmmUNITY ISSUES KEY RELATIONSHIPS A good neighbour policy is implemented at all facilities managed by Viridor.
This includes local liaison groups meeting regularly at major All waste and recycling facilities in England and Wales require sites, enabling local community stakeholders to be consulted and to environmental permits, or waste management licences or PPC permits be informed about the companys plans and operating procedures.
These are issued and monitored by the EA and SEPA Liaison group members include locally elected representatives of the respectively.
Viridor maintains a positive working relationship with the community as well as representatives of the regulator, the relevant regulators via proactive liaison and issues management, at both a siteplanning and waste authority and other local stakeholders.
Viridor supports two adopted charities, Scope and the Primary Local authorities are the largest single customer group accounting Immunodeficiency Association PIA.
The company match-funds in total for 31% of the companys revenue.
No individual authority amounts raised by employees for these charities and also provides accounts for more than 11%.
Viridors ROC contracts account for a payroll giving facility enabling employees to directly donate to 7% of revenue primarily with one customer.
No supplier accounts their chosen charity.
Viridor also fully participates in the Landfill for more than 6% of Viridors revenue.
The company sources from Communities Fund, a scheme whereby a proportion of Landfill Tax competitive markets.
can be claimed as credits and distributed to qualifying community and environmental projects.
During the year Viridor provided 9.4 million to Viridor Credits Environmental Company, an independent distributive environmental body.
Funding is allocated at grassroots level by steering groups established to serve areas close to operational landfill sites.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 25
