Corporate Governance Introduction Board balance and independence The Board acknowledges that it is very important for it to maintain the The Board considers that the current and future number of executive highest standards of corporate governance as this sets the standard and non-executive Directors remain appropriate to the proper for all senior directors, management and employees throughout the management of the Groups business.
The current and future Groups operating businesses.
Chairman are and will be non-executive and the executive Directors on the Board are the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director In June 2010 the Financial Reporting Council introduced a new UK and North Division Chief Executive.
Corporate Governance Code the New Code which applies to the Companys next accounting period starting on 1 January 2011.
The Senior Independent Director is David Thompson.
David TheDirectors have considered the requirements of the New Code Thompson joined the Board in August 1999 and has now served and where practical will be implementing its provisions prior to the more than 11 years on the Board.
As Senior Independent Director his requirement for formal compliance.
primary responsibility is maintaining relationships with the Companys major shareholders.
The Board considers David Thompson to be This report refers to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance independent in both character and judgement, notwithstanding his published in June 2008 the Combined Code unless otherwise long service on the Board.
He brings a wide breadth of experience to specificallystated and the Board sets out in this report how it has his role in dealing with corporate governance, relationships with the applied the principles of good corporate governance set out in the shareholders and his knowledge of the Group and the housebuilding Combined Code.
The Board The Chairman has reviewed David Thompsons performance and believes that his performance continues to be very effective.
The Composition Board consider that David Thompsons objectivity and sound advice and counsel continue to be of the highest standard and invaluable to As previously announced, the Chairman John White will be retiring the Companys continued progress in challenging market conditions.
from the Company at the AGM and Nicholas Wrigley will succeed As a consequence, the Board considers David Thompson to him.
Nicholas Wrigley has been a Director for four years and will be continue to be independent despite his length of service.
regarded by the Board as independent on his appointment as MrThompson continues to be available for re-election to the Board Chairman at the forthcoming AGM.
on an annual basis but will retire as Senior Independent Director at After Mr Hamish Leslie Melvilles retirement from the Board at the the AGM in 2012.
The Board intends to appoint a new independent AGM in 2010, the Board consisted of the Chairman, three executive non-executive Director during the next year.
Directors and five non-executive Directors.
Following Nicholas The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director Wrigleys appointment as Chairman the number of non-executive David Thompson, have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, Directors will reduce to four.
independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The executive Directors have extensive experience in the The Board considers all non-executive Directors to be independent, housebuilding industry and provide a direct line of control between including the future Chairman Nicholas Wrigley.
the Company and its operating businesses.
The non-executive The Company has procedures in place to ensure that Directors Directors provide a balance to the Board and bring a wide breadth disclose any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or of experience and skills.
indirect, which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of In accordance with the principles of the Combined Code there is a the Company.
No authority to authorise a conflict of interest has been clear written division of responsibilities between the Chairman and required during 2010.
Chief Executive approved by the Board.
Retirement and re-election of Directors Board responsibilities and processes The Board has considered the New Code provision B.
7.1 and The Board routinely meets on seven occasions each year and has confirms that all Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM, with a formal schedule of matters reserved for its consideration and the exception of John White who is retiring.
The schedule includes the approval of the Groups strategy, The Boards reasons for supporting the re-election of David major investments, annual and half year results, interim management Thompson are set out above.
The Board considers that other statements and trading updates, review of performance, dividend non-executive Directors, Nicholas Wrigley, Neil Davidson, Richard policy, monitoring risk and ensuring adequate financial resources are Pennycook and Jonathan Davie should be re-elected as they have available.
The schedule is reviewed on an annual basis.
The individually produced excellent performance in their duties and a high implementation of the Boards strategy and policies are delegated to level of commitment to their roles.
Collectively the non-executive executive Directors and senior management within the Group.
Directors have the appropriate skills to provide sound advice, The Board met on seven occasions in 2010, including one annual guidance and counsel during the current challenging market strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all Directors at Board conditions.
and Committee meetings during the year, except that Hamish Leslie Melville was unable to attend one Board meeting prior to his retirement at the AGM in 2010.
30 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued The Committee considers that the Board composition following Performance evaluation and professional development theAGM will be appropriate to the continued good management The Board undertakes a written self-evaluation of its performance on ofthe Company and is satisfied that suitable succession planning an annual basis.
The Company Secretary provides the Chairman forthe Board and senior management is in place.
The Committee with a report on the Board self-evaluation responses.
The Chairman willbe recommending the appointment of a new independent makes recommendations to the Board where appropriate to improve non-executive Director to the Board during the next year.
As a consequence, in the past Revised Terms of Reference for the Committee taking into account the Board has introduced an annual strategy meeting, revised the New Code were approved by the Board on 23 February 2011. agendas and processes to enhance the management and governance of the Company.
No new recommendations were made Remuneration Committee for improvements in the Boards procedures during 2010.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the The Chairman undertakes annual verbal evaluation of the executive remuneration of the Chairman and executive Directors.
The non-executive Directors undertake a members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas Wrigley verbal annual performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into Chairman, Neil Davidson, Jonathan Davie and David Thompson.
account the views of the executive Directors.
The Board are currently When Mr Wrigley becomes Chairman of the Company he will step considering the New Codes recommendations for external evaluation down as Chairman, but remain a member of the Committee.
of the Board and will report on their deliberations in the future.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year to The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their requirements for consider and approve remuneration arrangements for both the professional development and training, and where appropriate this executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee members all has been provided to Directors.
All Directors have access to the attended each meeting.
Details of the remuneration package for each advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and may also Director serving during 2010 are set out in the Remuneration Report seek independent professional advice and training at the Companys on pages 37 to 43. expense if so required to carry out their duties.
The Remuneration Report will be put to the shareholders for approval The Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination at the AGM to be held on 21 April 2011.
Committee all undertake a written or verbal self-evaluation of their performance each year and as a result of such evaluations, a number Revised Terms of Reference for the Committee taking into account of procedural changes have been made to committees agendas the New Code were approved by the Board on 23 February 2011. and procedures to improve the flow of information to Directors.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee The current members of the Audit Committee are Richard The current members of the Nomination Committee are John White Pennycook Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Jonathan Davie and David Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, David Thompson, Neil Davidson and Thompson.
On 22 June 2010 David Thompson retired as Audit Richard Pennycook.
Following Mr Whites retirement, Nicholas Committee Chairman and Mr Pennycook assumed Chairmanship of Wrigley will assume the Chair of the Committee.
The Committee met the Committee.
When Mr Wrigley becomes Chairman of the twice during 2010 to review and consider the composition of the Company he will retire from the Audit Committee.
All members of the Board and make recommendations for new appointments.
There Committee are independent non-executive Directors and have recent was full attendance by Directors at the Committee meetings.
relevant financial experience: please see the Directors biographies on pages 28 and 29.
After Mr Hamish Leslie Melville retired from the Board at the AGM in 2010, the Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of the considered that its composition was appropriate for the continued Groups financial reporting process: monitor the effectiveness of the good management of the Company.
Groups internal control, Group Risk function and risk management systems: review reports from the Risk Committee and the Group After Mr White notified the Board that he may retire, the Committee Risk Manager: monitor the statutory audit of the annual and met to discuss and recommend the appointment of a new Chairman consolidated accounts: review and monitor the independence of to the Board.
Mr Thompson the Senior Independent Director chaired the Groups external auditors andoversee the Groups relationship the Committee in considering the appointment of a new Chairman.
The Committee did not use external consultants or open advertising in seeking a new Chairman, as the Committee considered it had an The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed on a regular excellent candidate for the position already on the Board.
Following the most recent review, new Terms of Reference taking into account the New Code were approved by the Board on After due consideration, the Committee recommended to the Board 23 February 2011.
The Terms of Reference of the Group Risk that Nicholas Wrigley be appointed the new Chairman.
The management function, recommended by the Committee and Committee considered that Mr Wrigleys background, experience approved by the Board, were unchanged in 2010. see his biography on page 28, and his knowledge of the Company and its business made him the ideal candidate to succeed Mr White.
Mr Wrigley has confirmed that he has sufficient time to discharge his responsibilities as non-executive Chairman effectively.
The Board unanimously approved Mr Wrigleys appointment as Chairman to succeed Mr White.
Mr Wrigley did not take part in the Committee or the Boards respective decisions.
Directors Report: Corporate Governance Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 31 Corporate Governance continued The Committee met on five occasions during the year and all The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk members were in attendance at each meeting.
The Committee management systems in relation to the financial reporting process agreed the nature and scope of the audit with the auditors and and in relation to the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
monitored the quarterly findings of the auditors and Group Risk.
The Senior management from the finance department monitor the Committee regularly meets the auditors without the presence of the Groups financial management and reporting systems and continually Companys management.
The Committees Chairman also meets assess the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups accounting the Group Risk Manager without the Companys management being procedures.
Senior management from the finance and company present at least once each year.
secretarial departments review financial reports, interim management The Audit Committee formulates and oversees the Companys policy statements and trading updates, with appropriate consultation with on monitoring external auditor objectivity and independence in the Groups auditors.
They ensure that such reports and statements relation to non-audit services.
The policy was reviewed in February are accurate and complete and comply with all relevant legislation 2011.
To ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or and regulation.
Each region and function is required to report to the fee income relative to the audit fee, does not compromise or be seen Group to ensure that all financial reporting is accurate and that all to compromise the auditors independence, objectivity or integrity, the matters which may be material to the Group as a whole have been auditors are excluded from undertaking a range of work on behalf of reported to the Board.
Senior management reports its findings to the the Company which includes appraisal or valuation services, Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
management functions and litigation support, actuarial services, The Group Risk management function has facilitated an update to legalaccounting and remuneration services.
From time to time the corporate risk register during the year to reflect the changing risk non-audit services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
The results of this process have been The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the performance of reported to the Risk Committee and have been used to drive a risk KPMG Audit Plc and therefore recommends their reappointment as focused programme of work designed to improve business auditors.
processes and increase internal control effectiveness.
The updated During 2010 the Committee reviewed the Group Risk Register and corporate risk register has been approved by both Risk and Audit introduced lead indicator reporting in order to further improve risk Committees.
The Risk Committee met five times during 2010, ensuring that there The Group has had a whistle blowing procedure in place for a has been an ongoing process for identification, evaluation and number of years.
The whistle blowing telephone hotline was management of the significant risks that are faced by the Company.
prominently advertised on Group notice boards during the year and is The processes that the Risk Committee has applied in 2010 in publicised in the Staff Handbook.
All employees may raise concerns reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control include about malpractice or improper or potentially illegal behaviour in the following: confidence without the concern of victimisation or disciplinary action.
Review of reports produced by the Group Risk management The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination function on internal control and management of risk.
Committees are available on the Companys website www.
Reviewing reports from the Corporate Responsibility Committee persimmonhomes.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the asubcommittee of the Risk Committee with particular reference Companys registered address.
toreputational, environmental, sustainability and social risks facing the Group.
Risk Committee and internal control Review of representation on risk and control from all managing The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of directors of operating businesses following individual reviews of internal control and for the review of its effectiveness.
It is the role of internal control within their operating businesses.
management to implement the Boards policies on risk control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control Review of representations on risk and control from both Head systems.
All employees have some responsibility for internal control Office and Divisional management.
as part of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
Members of the Risk Committee completed the following tasks, The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing the which are essential parts of the Groups control framework: Boards responsibilities with regard to risk and internal control.
Maintaining a continuous detailed involvement in monitoring and Specifically this includes determining appropriate control procedures controlling work in progress and controls over land acquisition and the review of effectiveness of internal control.
the Risk Committee during 2010 were John White, Mike Farley, Mike Killoran, Jeff Fairburn and Divisional Chief Executives, David Thornton Regular site visits and discussion with site based personnel.
The Risk Committee are supported by the Ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit operational forecasts and financial budgets.
Committee which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
Involvement in each individual operating business board The Company has complied with the Combined Code provisions on discussions, particularly operational board meetings where all internal control, having continued to operate the procedures aspects of operational performance are analysed.
necessary to implement the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee Report revised October 2005 throughout the year.
32 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Corporate Governance continued Upon completion of these processes the Risk Committee formally Votes of members considers the annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there are currently system of internal control.
This review covers all material controls, no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may be exercised in person, by including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as the proxy, or in relation to corporate members by a corporate Groups risk management system.
The review for 2010 has been representative.
The deadline for delivering either written or electronic completed and approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
proxy forms is not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the A detailed Group Risk programme of work for 2011 has been meeting.
To attend and vote at a meeting a shareholder must be approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
entered on the Register of Members at a time that is not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting calculated using working The Companys system of internal control is designed to manage, days only.
rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve business objectives.
However the system does not provide absolute assurance against On a vote on a show of hands each member being an individual material misstatement or loss.
present in person or a duly authorised representative of a corporation has one vote.
Each proxy present in person who has been appointed Capital structure by one member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one member and has been The following description summarises certain provisions of the given the same voting instructions by those members, the proxy has Articles of Association of the Company adopted by special resolution one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by more than one member passed on 22 April 2010 the Articles and the Companies Act 2006. and has been given conflicting instructions or instructions to vote for This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies or against by one member and discretion by another, the proxy has Act 2006 and Articles should be consulted if further information is one vote for and one vote against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll required.
A copy of the Articles may be obtained by writing to the each member present in person or by proxy or by a duly authorised Group Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
representative, has one vote for each share held by the member.
Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made by Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 of the wayofspecial resolution in accordance with the provisions of the financial statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon Employee Benefit Companies Act 2006.
Trust may vote or abstain as it sees fit.
Share capital Dividends and distributions The Company has one class of share, being ordinary shares with The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends not anominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to fixed income.
exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors, subject to At28 February 2011 the issued share capital of the Company was statute.
The Directors may pay interim dividends and any fixed rate 302,591,431 ordinary shares including shares held in Treasury dividend whenever the financial position of the Company, in the withanominal value of 30,259,143.
Further details are provided opinion of the Directors, justifies its payment.
innote 24 to the financial statements.
All dividends and interest shall be paid subject to any lien of the Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other rights, Company to those members whose names are on the Register orsuch restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, ofMembers on the record date, notwithstanding any subsequent voting or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by transfer or transmission of shares.
ordinary resolution determine or failing such determination as the Directors may decide, subject to the provisions of the Companies Transfer of shares Act 2006 and other shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in writing in any usual or The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise dispose common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors and ofshares in the Company to such persons including the Directors permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the UK Listing Authority.
themselves at such times and on such terms as the Directors The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders maythink proper, subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may and shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 22 April 2010, shareholders result in restrictions on voting rights.
gave the Directors authority to issue shares up to 33.3% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury at that date, being Appointment and replacement of Directors anaggregate nominal amount of 10,014,575 and to disapply pre-emption rights on the issue of shares up to 5% of the issued Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 15 in number.
share capital being an aggregate nominal amount of 1,512,957.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board of 21 April 2011.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will be put Directors holds office until the next following AGM and is then eligible toshareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
for re-election by the shareholders.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term ofoffice.
Directors Report: Corporate Governance Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 33 Corporate Governance continued At each AGM at least one third of the Directors shall retire from office Relations with shareholders and shall be eligible for reappointment.
In any event each Director The Board continues to seek good relations with the Companys shall retire from office and shall be eligible for reappointment at the shareholders and the Directors recognise that it is important for both AGM held in the third year following his last reappointment.
In private and institutional shareholders to have the opportunity to meet accordance with the Articles and the Combined Code, a nonsenior management.
Mike Farley and Mike Killoran have responsibility executive Director who has been in office for more than nine years for maintaining appropriate communications with institutional consecutively shall retire at each AGM and shall be eligible for investors and analysts advised by the Group joint brokers, Merrill reappointment.
Lynch and Citigroup and financial PR consultants M:Communications.
In accordance with the New Code Provision B.
7.1 the Board has The Company issues regular trading and interim management determined that all directors will be subject to annual re-election by statements to the London Stock Exchange as well as the publication shareholders.
of half year and final results.
The Company provides shareholders The office of Director shall be vacated if he resigns by notice in writing with access to detailed presentations of results at its analyst to the Company: he offers in writing to resign and the Directors presentations which can be viewed on a webcast via the Companys resolve to accept such offer: a bankruptcy order or an interim order website.
Webcasts are available on the Companys website for a ismade against him or he makes any arrangement or composition period of one year.
with his creditors generally: he is, or may be, suffering from mental The Group Chairman and the Senior Independent Director maintain disorder: he is absent from meetings of the Directors for six contact with major shareholders to understand any issues or successive months without the permission of the Directors: he concerns.
The Board is provided with reports and feedback from becomes prohibited by law from acting as a Director: or he is Directors presentations and meetings with both shareholders and removed from office by notice in writing served upon him by all his analysts.
All the Directors attend the Companys AGM and are available to Powers of the Directors answer questions at the meeting or privately.
The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors The Combined Code on Corporate Governance who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the June 2008 Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
In particular the Directors may exercise The Company complied with the Combined Code throughout all the powers of the Company to borrow money, issue and buy back 2010and continues to review the New Code as well as the shares with the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove Companys governance procedures to maintain proper control Directors and recommend and declare dividends.
The Combined Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council, tel 020 7492 2300 or online at Significant shareholdings www.
uk As at 28 February 2011, the Company had been notified, under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rule 5, ofthe following interests of the voting rights of the Company.
Percentage Number of of total Nature of Name voting rights voting rights holding Allianz SE 18,098,600 6.03 Direct & Indirect Aberdeen Asset 16,877,874 5.62 Indirect Management Plcs Fund Management Operating Subsidiaries AXA SA 14,923,488 4.97 Direct & Indirect BlackRock Inc 15,178,222 5.04 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc 11,971,510 3.98 Direct 34 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Corporate Governance
