Governance 79 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Nominations Committee report Nominations Committee report Dear shareholder This year proved to be a particularly busy one for the Nominations Committee.
At the start of 2010 the Committee agreed that it would initiate a search for a new Chairman, as I have now served for six years.
Our Senior Independent Director led the process and having agreed a job and person specification, appointed search consultants Egon Zehnder International to assist.
I am delighted that this resulted in Norman Murray joining our Board at the start of March with a view to him taking on the role of Chairman when I step down at the conclusion of our AGM.
Kjell Almskog, our Senior Independent Director, is also stepping down from the Board at the same time.
We therefore appointed Egon Zehnder International to conduct a second search for a non-executive director.
Roxanne Decyk consequently joined our Board at the same time as Norman.
I am confident that Norman will lead the Board well and that he and Roxanne will make strong individual contributions.
They both have oil & gas experience but have also spent time in other industries, which will enrich the Boards debate.
I have greatly enjoyed serving on this Board and I am sure that they will too.
Ayman Asfari led Energy Developments and Production Solutions Role of the Committee on an interim basis throughout 2010.
We were delighted when Regularly reviews the Board composition and structure an extensive search resulted in Andy Inglis being appointed Chief Executive of Energy Developments and Production Solutions at Considers succession planning for directors and other senior the start of this year.
The Committee recommended that Andy be executives appointed a director to the Board and he joined the Board in early Identifies and recommends candidates to be appointed to the Board March.
He not only leads a substantial part of our group but has extensive boardroom experience.
Membership In view of the changes to the Board, the Committee considered the membership of the Boards committees after the AGM and who Now Rodney Chase Chairman should assume the role of Senior Independent Director after Kjells Ayman Asfari retirement.
The Board agreed the Committees recommendations Kjell Almskog on the composition of the various committees and on Rijnhard van Thomas Thune Andersen Tets being appointed Senior Independent Director.
Rijnhard will be our longest serving non-executive director in May and will, I am sure, Stefano Cao fulfil the role of Senior Independent Director admirably.
Rijnhard van Tets In making these changes, the Committee had due regard to the After AGM Norman Murray Chairman Boards overall size and composition.
Ayman Asfari We also considered succession planning more widely and will look Thomas Thune Andersen at this aspect of our responsibilities in greater detail going forward Stefano Cao since it is such an important element of ensuring that our business Roxanne Decyk is sustainable.
Rijnhard van Tets On more prosaic matters, we reviewed and revised our terms of reference so that they continue to conform with best practice.
In summary, I believe that your Board has the right people to lead the Company in 2011 and beyond.
Rodney Chase Chairman of the Nominations Committee 4 March 2011
