80 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Audit Committee report Dear shareholder It was very much business as usual for the Audit Committee in 2010.
Our calendar of meetings is now well established and is largely driven by our programme of communications to the market.
A more detailed description of the Committees activities is provided later but in summary the Committee considered the groups full and half year results and formally reviewed the effectiveness of Petrofacs internal control and risk management systems.
I wish to thank my colleague Kjell Almskog who is stepping down from the Board shortly.
He has provided invaluable support to the Committee over the last few years.
Roxanne Decyk will join the Audit Committee in May and I look forward to working with her.
The events of 2008 and thereafter have resulted in a great deal of debate about risk management and sound internal controls.
Investors increasingly want to know whether or not a board has a real grasp of the risks facing the enterprise and if there are effective safeguards in place to mitigate them.
The Audit Committee has always worked closely with the Risk Committee in order to provide appropriate assurance to our Board and, in line with best practice, I also serve on the Risk Committee.
To date the Audit Committee has concentrated on financial internal controls and the Risk Committee on operational risks.
While this approach has served us well, the Board agreed at the Role of the Committee end of 2010 that the groups increasing size and complexity meant that Monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements and we should revisit the committees interface to ensure we have the best reviews significant financial reporting judgements possible framework for understanding and managing our risks be Reviews internal control and risk management systems of a they financial, operational or compliance related.
The Company has financial nature now appointed a Group Head of Compliance and his appointment will doubtless influence our deliberations as we develop our future Monitors the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function and reviews its material findings approach to assurance on all our internal controls.
Oversees the relationship with the external auditors including The UK Code emphasises the need for directors to keep on top of agreeing their fee and assessing their independence and technical developments, which is particularly pertinent for the Audit effectiveness Committee.
We intend to hold a series of dedicated seminars before our meetings in 2011, focusing on changes to accounting standards that will specifically affect Petrofac.
I have recent and relevant financial Membership experience of course, but it is important to keep that experience up Now Rijnhard van Tets Chairman to date.
Kjell Almskog Thomas Thune Andersen Rijnhard van Tets Chairman of the Audit Committee After AGM Rijnhard van Tets Chairman 4 March 2011 Thomas Thune Andersen Roxanne Decyk Governance 81 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Audit Committee report Financial reporting Effectiveness of group internal audit and external auditors As set out in our Directors Statements on page 96 directors are The Committee formally assessed the performance of our internal responsible for preparing group financial statements in accordance auditors and the external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and judged with International Financial Reporting Standards.
The group has that both were effective.
In making its assessment of the external an internal control and risk management framework in place which auditors, the Committee had due regard to their expertise, resourcing permits the Company to prepare consolidated accounts and this and independence.
includes policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions accurately recorded.
Non-audit services policy We have a non-audit services policy that sets out under what In 2010, the Committee reviewed the 2009 Report and Accounts circumstances we may appoint our external auditors to undertake and 2010 half year results.
Furthermore, in March 2011 we of course additional non-audit work.
This is reviewed by the Committee reviewed the 2010 Report and Accounts and you are reading these each year.
Our policy, which remained unchanged from last year, now.
As part of these reviews, we discussed with Keith Roberts and is summarised below: the external auditors the significant accounting policies, estimates and judgements that had been adopted.
the external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying out work which might impair their objectivity Internal controls and risk management systems Keith Roberts, as Chief Financial Officer, will seek approval from the The Committee reviewed the groups internal controls primarily Committee before appointing the external auditors to carry out a piece through its engagement with our internal audit function and the of non-audit work: Risk Committee.
Our Group Head of Internal Audit, Ajit Nair, attends if the fee is above US$200,000 each committee meeting.
At the start of the year the Committee if total non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the annual agrees the annual internal audit plan, which is drawn up on a audit fee risk-based approach.
Any significant findings from internal control audits undertaken have been appropriately followed up and if the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited from carrying the necessary actions taken to address any weaknesses found.
out the work, but the Chief Financial Officer wants to appoint them Ajit provides a progress report part way through the year, as a due to exceptional circumstances consequence of which his plan may be revised, and a final report the Chief Financial Officer may appoint the external auditors to do all at the end of the year.
types of other work In 2010, the internal audit department completed 85 assignments Details of non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young LLP during across a broad cross-section of the groups activities.
Rijnhard van 2010 are provided in note 4e to the financial statements.
Tets and Kjell Almskog served on both the Audit and Risk Committees during the year and therefore had oversight of the Risk Committees work in relation to operational controls.
In addition, the Committee receives regular reports detailing matters reported by employees under our Speaking Up or whistle-blowing process.
