Governance 71 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Dear shareholder This is my final governance report as I will be stepping down from the Board at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Since I joined the Board we have made great progress in many areas, including in relation to our governance framework.
Nevertheless, we are always seeking to improve our processes, within the overarching principle that we do what is best for our Company and its shareholders.
We are aware that companies are, in my view quite correctly, being challenged to write governance reports that are more engaging and less riddled with the fungus of boiler plate reporting.
In response, this year we have tried to write a more accessible report.
What is our approach to governance?
Petrofac is incorporated in Jersey and has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is therefore expected to meet the UKs highest standards of regulation and corporate Rodney Chase governance.
A company with a premium listing is required by the United Kingdom Listing Authority to adopt the new UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code regardless of whether it is incorporated Your Board is responsible for in the UK or elsewhere.
promoting long-term shareholder value This marks a change from last year when, due to our Jersey incorporation, we were not obliged to adhere to the UK Codes in a responsible manner that takes predecessor, the Combined Code.
At that time we were merely required to govern ourselves in line with governance practice in Jersey, account of our various stakeholders.
where there is no formal code.
However, Petrofac has chosen to follow the Combined Code since the Company first listed almost six years ago, as we felt it was best practice.
We now welcome the change in the compliance regime for premium listed companies incorporated outside the UK.
We understand, though, that good governance goes beyond adherence to a code: although there is, of course, value in monitoring compliance against rules, which are generally formulated for good reason.
Nevertheless, the fundamental value of good governance is that it seeks to ensure that a company is well run.
As well as promoting challenge, accountability and transparency it provides a framework that articulates a companys goals and objectives and allows decisions to be taken by the right people at the right time.
We believe that we have made good progress in strengthening and deepening our governance framework this year and will aim to improve further in 2011.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK Code in 2010.
The FRC published the new code earlier than originally planned both in response to various corporate failures in 2008 and the publication of the Walker report in 2009 on the governance of banks and other financial institutions.
Questions were rightly asked at the time about whether the UKs governance regime continued to be effective.
While the FRC concluded that the UKs comply or explain regime continued to be largely appropriate, it introduced a number of changes that we welcome, in particular the more explicit requirement for boards to articulate their risk appetite and to identify and determine the significant risks they are prepared to take.
We are required to apply the UK Code from the start of 2011 and formally report against it for the first time next year.
We believe, however, that it makes sense to tell you now about our progress in implementing the UK Code and this is what we have done even if some matters are still work in progress.
72 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued This is the last year we report our compliance with the old Combined What did the Board do in 2010?
Code and I am pleased to say that we consider that, throughout 2010, Having given some idea of our general responsibilities, I will now the Company complied with the main principles and all relevant set out some of the specific things that your Board did in 2010.
It is 1 provisions of the 2008 Combined Code.
not an all encompassing list, but it does include some of the years key highlights.
In addition to this report, the Company has also prepared a corporate social responsibility CSR report that addresses our engagement with Entrepreneurial leadership society in general.
Entrepreneurial leadership could be paraphrased as our management team putting strategy into action.
This year, the Board spent significant What should the Board be doing?
time overseeing the demerger of the Don assets into EnQuest PLC, Your Board is responsible for promoting long-term shareholder which represented a delivery of the build and harvest strategy for value in a responsible manner that takes account of our various Energy Developments.
Also significant were the Boards approval for stakeholders.
the Ticleni contract and our investment in Seven Energy International Limited, which saw us both move into new geographies and do so via We provide entrepreneurial leadership that has grown and, we believe, novel commercial arrangements which we want to pursue.
We also will continue to grow the business.
To enable such continued growth, monitored the progress of the South Yoloten contract in Turkmenistan we set corporate strategy and make sure that Petrofac has appropriate throughout 2010 and were pleased to end the year having successfully financial capital and the right kind of people to deliver that strategy.
completed the conversion of its second phase.
To attract and retain high calibre employees, we also seek to ensure Setting the tone that the Company has the right remuneration policy and, to make We approved a number of policies, including our HSSEIA plan for sure that we remain sustainable, we focus on succession planning.
We worked hard to develop a more strategic approach to our CSR activities.
We now have a dedicated Group Head of CSR and We want our men and women to share our values, as well as having monitored ongoing progress with two formal updates.
We also spent the correct technical expertise.
This is particularly important for an considerable time in Risk Committee discussing our response to international company like Petrofac, with employees drawn from the Bribery Act 2010.
Doubtless, such discussions will continue in more than 70 nations.
Your Board works hard to set the right tone 2011 particularly as the UK Government recently announced a delay by taking responsibility for our Code of Business Conduct and for in implementing the Act.
Setting strategy Taking and managing risks are an integral part of being entrepreneurial.
We increased the time spent on discussing and setting strategy.
Nevertheless, it is vital that we know and understand the significant As well as having a dedicated day in May focused on strategy, risks that the Company faces.
Ensuring that Petrofac has an appropriate we now spend most of our December board meeting monitoring framework of internal controls and risk management is, therefore, progress in strategic delivery, with reference to our budget and an essential part of your Boards work.
We work to promote the success of the Company for many people Increasing effectiveness but our shareholders are, of course, our principal focus.
An essential We undertook an externally facilitated board evaluation.
part of our job, therefore, is maintaining a dialogue with shareholders.
Succession planning The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for The quite extensive changes in the Boards composition are the decision, which includes: culmination of more than a years work.
setting the groups strategy Accountability approval to enter into contracts which are deemed to be material either We have started a process to ensure that we comply with the UK strategically or by reason of size Codes new requirement that a board should articulate explicitly its approval of the annual budget risk appetite and determine the nature and extent of the significant approval of major corporate transactions risks it is prepared to take.
This will complement our long established approval of major changes to the groups capital structure framework of internal controls and risk management.
approval of key policies, such as those relating to Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Integrity Assurance HSSEIA and our Code of Business Conduct preparing the groups financial statements recommending or declaring a dividend reviewing the groups overall governance arrangements including approval of the matrix of delegated authorities maintaining effective internal controls and risk management succession planning and appointments to the Board setting senior executive remuneration reviewing the performance of the Board itself and its committees 1 A copy of the 2008 Combined Code is publicly available at www.
uk Governance 73 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report Who is on the Board?
How is the Board organised?
As Chairman, I am responsible for leading your Board and ensuring As a Jersey company, our Board is unitary in nature.
This means that it operates effectively.
After a relatively long period of stability, that all our directors share equal responsibility for the decisions that there have been a number of membership changes.
Executive and non-executive directors need to be able almost six years since we listed, this reflects our broad policy that to work together in an atmosphere of openness, trust and mutual non-executive directors should generally serve two three-year terms.
It is therefore important that all directors see the Chairman as a fair and impartial individual.
His relationship with the Group We currently have 11 directors comprising the Chairman, six nonChief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are particularly executive directors and four executive directors and they are listed important since these two individuals represent the views of in the table below.
management and non-executive directors, respectively.
Rodney Chase Chairman I hold regular private meetings with Ayman Asfari and Kjell Almskog both between and at our board meetings.
I believe, therefore, that I am Kjell Almskog Senior Independent equally informed about the views of management and non-executive Director directors.
This insight assists me in two ways: I am better able to set Thomas Thune Andersen Non-executive Director Appointed the agenda for our board meetings and I can ensure that all directors 13 May 2010 contribute at our meetings.
Stefano Cao Non-executive Director Appointed 13 May 2010 Both the Chairman and Group Chief Executive have clearly defined Roxanne Decyk Non-executive Director Appointed terms of reference and these are set out in writing.
The split in 1 March 2011 responsibilities is shown in the table below.
Norman Murray Non-executive Director Appointed 1 March 2011 Roles Rijnhard van Tets Non-executive Director Chairman Group Chief Executive Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive Lead the Board Implement strategy Maroun Semaan Group Chief Operating Ensure effective communication Develop manageable goals Officer with shareholders and priorities Andy Inglis Chief Executive, Energy Appointed Ensure effective communication Lead and motivate the Developments and 1 March 2011 flows between directors management teams Production Solutions Facilitate the effective Develop proposals to present Keith Roberts Chief Financial Officer contribution of all directors to the Board on all areas reserved for the Boards judgement This is intended, however, to be a temporary state of affairs.
After more than six years on the Board, both Kjell and I will be stepping Our Secretary to the Board, Mary Hitchon, makes sure that we down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM and the Board adhere to proper process and follow applicable rules and regulations.
will once again revert to nine directors.
I rely upon her to advise me on governance matters and she is also available to all other members of the Board.
Furthermore, if any You can find biographies of your directors on pages 68 to 70.
We have director wishes to take independent professional advice at the made considerable efforts to build a Board with the right balance of Companys expense, he or she can do so.
Diversity is healthy as it helps guard against group think and promotes constructive, challenging debate.
The Board is assisted by four committees, namely the Nominations, You will see that your directors are drawn from across the world and Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Each committee is have varied career histories with no single type of person dominating responsible for reviewing and overseeing activities within its particular the Board.
We are, however, fortunate in that our Board has directors terms of reference.
At each face-to-face board meeting, the chairman with a great deal of experience in the oil & gas industry both in of each committee provides a summary of any committee meeting exploration and production and lump-sum contracting.
This is held since the previous board meeting and the minutes of committee essential if we are to safeguard the interests of shareholders.
meetings are ordinarily circulated to the Board.
Reports for 2010 from each of these committees are provided from pages 79 to 95 All non-executive directors who served during 2010 and to date are and copies of each committees terms of reference are available on independent in judgement and character.
Directors are required to the Companys website.
The Secretary to the Board acts as secretary disclose any potential conflict to the Board for its consideration and to all of our committees.
I am not aware of any relationship or circumstance which is likely to prejudice, or could appear to prejudice, the judgement of any director.
Petrofac Board During 2010, Bernard fide Combret, Michael Press and Amjad Bseisu stepped down from the Board and I thank each of them for their Nominations Audit Risk Remuneration respective contributions to the growth of Petrofac.
Thomas Thune Committee Committee Committee Committee Andersen and Stefano Cao are proving worthy successors.
This year, Takes primary Monitors the Oversees the Agrees the Roxanne Decyk, Norman Murray and Andy Inglis joined the Board and responsibility integrity of the groups risk remuneration I welcome them.
Norman Murray will take over as Chairman subject for succession Companys management policy for some to shareholder approval at the AGM.
planning and financial and internal members of senior the selection statements and control management process for new reviews financial processes for and sets individual Board members internal controls non-financial compensation and financial risk matters levels management systems 74 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued How often does the Board meet?
have been forced to revise dates.
Details of attendance by Board Our Board meets face-to-face six times per year, generally for a and committee members at such meetings in 2010 are detailed in minimum of two days.
At least two of our meetings are longer as, the table below.
during our annual programme of events, we also hold a dedicated strategy day and a site visit.
Committee meetings are held first As well as our physical meetings, we hold a number of telephonic followed by a full board meeting.
We set the calendar two years board meetings, generally to consider an item of business that in advance, although there have been some occasions when we cannot be held over until the next face-to-face meeting.
Nominations Audit Risk Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings held in 2010 6 5 3 3 4 Rodney Chase 6 6 5 5 Non-executive Chairman Kjell Almskog 6 6 5 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 Senior Independent Director 1 Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 3 3 2 2 3 3 Non-executive Director 1 Stefano Cao 3 3 3 3 1 1 3 3 Non-executive Director 2 Rijnhard van Tets 5 6 3 3 3 3 3 3 1 1 Non-executive Director Ayman Asfari 6 6 5 5 Group Chief Executive Maroun Semaan 6 6 Group Chief Operating Officer Keith Roberts 6 6 Chief Financial Officer Former Directors 3 Amjad Bseisu 2 2 Chief Executive, Energy Developments 4 Bernard fide Combret 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 Non-executive Director 4 Michael Press 3 3 2 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 Non-executive Director Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended 1 From 13 May 2010 2 Rijnhard van Tets was unable to attend one board meeting due to a previous engagement 3 To 4 April 2010 4 To 13 May 2010 Governance 75 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Co Cor rpo por ra at te e g go ov five er rn na an nce ce r repo epor rt t Where does the Board meet?
How do we decide what directors are paid?
We hold our board meetings at a variety of locations across the globe.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the Nevertheless, we make sure that we always hold at least one meeting remuneration and terms of employment of executive directors and each year in Jersey, our place of incorporation.
In addition, we hold some members of senior management.
It is also responsible for one meeting each year in Sharjah as this is the location of our biggest determining the Chairmans fee.
A detailed report on the activities office and the centre of our Engineering & Construction business.
of the Remuneration Committee is provided on pages 84 to 95.
While in Sharjah, the Board takes the opportunity to meet around 50 Executive directors effectively determine the fees of non-executive members of our Sharjah management team over an informal dinner.
directors since this responsibility lies with the Board as a whole, excluding those directors whose fees are being determined.
We also make sure that the Board holds one meeting where Petrofac has business.
In October 2010, we visited both Singapore and What is our approach to shareholders re-electing directors?
In Singapore, we visited our training centre, where the In the past we followed the accepted convention that one third of our Managing Director of Training Services and its local management directors, generally the longest serving members of the Board, submit team updated the Board on progress in relation to strategy for the themselves for re-election at the AGM.
The UK Code states, however, business globally and for Singapore.
We also met customers who that all directors should submit themselves for re-election every year.
use the training centre and had lunch with employees.
In Malaysia, There has been some ambiguity as to whether companies should we met representatives of PETRONAS and other local partners seek to adopt the new recommendation in 2011 or 2012.
Your Board over dinner before holding our board meeting the following day in has concluded that it would offer shareholders the opportunity our Kuala Lumpur office.
Our board meetings not only allow us to to re-elect all directors at our 2011 AGM.
consider formal business, they also help us to really get to know Petrofac, its people and its customers.
How do we get the best out of the Board?
It is important that we get the best out of our board meetings.
We Who attends board meetings?
invest considerable time, effort and expense in arranging meetings As well as directors and the Secretary to the Board, we have regular so it is important that directors are able to make the best possible guests from operational and functional management.
We believe that the following aspects of support for Chedid, Gordon East, Rob Jewkes and Richard Milne, all members directors are essential: of senior management, whose biographies are provided on pages board papers 50 and 51, attended part or all of at least one meeting.
Several other members of operational management, one or two tiers below Secretary to the Board managing director level, also attended meetings.
We also had regular induction updates from the functional heads of HSSEIA, human resources, strategy and CSR.
We consider that this regular exposure to our senior training management is beneficial.
It helps directors get to know the Company evaluation and its senior management better and it makes for more effective board meetings that, whilst always professional, are nevertheless Board papers lively and engaging.
It is essential that board papers are well written and relevant.
They should be dispatched in a timely manner so all directors What is the selection process for the Board?
have adequate time to read them.
Our papers are generally of a We have a formal, rigorous and transparent selection procedure high standard and for our face-to-face meetings are dispatched for the appointment of directors.
in hard copy format to directors one week before a board meeting.
This is important given that our directors are based around the world.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending When we hold a telephonic board meeting, the Secretary to the a director to the full Board.
The full Board, with the exception Board ensures that papers are circulated electronically, generally of the existing Chairman, takes responsibility for considering at least 24 hours before the meeting.
the appointment of a new Chairman.
Secretary to the Board For an executive appointment to the Board, the Nominations It is important that Board members, particularly our non-executive Committee will consider whether an individual is able to contribute directors, have a principal point of contact within the organisation.
both as an executive and at Board level.
The Committee will assure The non-executive directors receive a great deal of support from itself that the individual will be able to think strategically and consider various individuals within Petrofac, particularly at committee level, his or her responsibilities in relation to internal controls and risk and are encouraged to contact individuals directly if they wish.
however, have a highly capable Secretary to the Board whom we may approach for general support and advice, or when we do not know Individuals need to have sufficient time to give to our Board.
Care whom to contact on a particular matter.
She ensures that we receive is taken to establish the existing commitments of all prospective appropriate information, as and when appropriate, and this extends non-executive directors, particularly the Chairman.
Individuals far beyond dispatching board papers or writing minutes.
are required to let the Board know if their commitments change after appointment.
There is a detailed report on the activities of the Nominations Committee on page 79.
76 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued Induction ICSA presented a report of recommendations to the Board, after Recent governance developments emphasise the importance of which directors were invited to comment.
The Secretary to the Board directors receiving an appropriate induction and ongoing training.
In and I subsequently worked together to place the recommendations 2010, in liaison with Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan and with the within the broader context of a boards responsibilities.
We then help of the Secretary to the Board, I created induction programmes for discussed the Boards performance at a further board meeting our newly appointed non-executive directors Thomas Thune Andersen and agreed that we could be more effective by: and Stefano Cao.
Strategic discussion Increasing the amount of time we spend on Visits Visits to our Sharjah, Mumbai, London, Woking and strategic discussion.
We now have not only Aberdeen offices to meet our managing directors and a dedicated strategy day in May but a further many of their direct reports half day in December.
In May we engage in blue sky thinking and in December Meetings Meetings with functional heads, such as our Director we monitor progress against strategy, of Legal and Commercial Affairs, Group Heads by reference to the groups budget for the of HSSEIA, Human Resources, Internal Audit, forthcoming year and our five-year plans.
Tax Communications and CSR, Head of Enterprise In addition, we have agreed a programme Risk Management and Group Financial Controller of deep dive presentations to the Board Seminars An  seminar, led by the Secretary on specific strategic matters to the Board and a partner from our legal advisers, Risk appetite Seeking to articulate better our risk appetite Freshfields, on the role and responsibility of a director and significant risks of a UK-listed entity Succession planning Increasing our focus on succession planning A seminar, led by a partner from the remuneration by ensuring the issue is regularly included on consultants, Deloitte LLP, on the role and responsibility the Nominations Committee agenda of the Remuneration Committee Delegated authorities Revisiting our matrix of delegated authorities so that the Board best uses the finite amount To ensure that time was spent constructively and conversations of time available to it.
The group has grown could focus on key topics, we encouraged all employees who met extensively over recent years and it is no the directors to prepare a presentation.
longer appropriate for the Board to consider certain matters which it considered in the past We are currently in the process of developing and delivering tailored induction programmes for Roxanne Decyk, Norman Murray and These items are all work in progress with some more developed Andy Inglis.
than others, as one would expect following a meaningful evaluation.
Although we are required to conduct an annual appraisal the reality Training is that a board should always be seeking to improve its performance.
The Chairman is responsible for the training needs of all directors, under the UK Code.
As in previous years, my appraisal was conducted by Michael Press, our then Senior Independent Director.
Michael did this through a series Whereas we have traditionally provided regular technical training of questionnaire led interviews with directors before meeting with me updates during committee meetings, we are now developing a to present feedback.
series of more formal seminars.
These will be held outside committee meetings so that the topics under review can receive more time and How does the Board formally satisfy itself that it has sound focus and will be individually tailored for Petrofac.
At least some of the risk management?
seminars will be led by external advisers.
We have always supported The Board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of Petrofacs directors who wish to attend external seminars run by professional risk management and internal control systems, including financial, advisers and we will continue to do so.
Despite such general support, we have not always tracked the full This year we decided that our annual review would be conducted by extent of director training.
Going forward, the Secretary to the Board the full Board.
In previous years, we relied upon the Audit Committee will record all formal training undertaken by directors, both internally to conduct a review of our internal controls.
We decided that this and externally.
This will enable the Chairman to assess whether any approach was no longer appropriate, given the increasing amount Board members need additional training support.
of work being done by the Risk Committee.
At present the Audit Committee concentrates on financial internal controls and the Risk Evaluation Committee focuses on operational controls.
The combined work of ICSA Board Evaluation led a very helpful evaluation of our Board the two committees provided the basis of a formal report to the full during the year.
Each director was interviewed individually, on a Board, after which we concluded that the group maintained a sound confidential basis, by the same ICSA representative and asked for risk management and internal control framework.
his views on topics relating to the Boards performance.
In addition, ICSA observers, including the interviewer, attended a board meeting.
As with all companies, our system of internal control and risk management can only ever provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Governance 77 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report What is our reference for satisfying ourselves that we have How does Petrofac monitor its internal control and risk a sound risk management system?
We look to the revised Turnbull guidance, which was published by Each of our business units has its own business management system the FRC in 2005.
This is a principles based approach that requires that incorporates policies and procedures that assist with the business your Board to be thoughtful about how best to discharge its units risk management.
In addition, each business unit produces obligations.
Turnbull suggests that boards consider four broad its own risk matrix or register.
Each business units management themes when attempting to assess the internal control and risk team meets regularly and monitors the risk matrix as a matter of management framework: course.
They note any change in risk assessment at an individual and aggregate level and seek to take appropriate mitigating action do you know and understand your significant risks?
should they believe it necessary.
The risk matrices for each business how do you monitor your internal controls and risk management are formally reviewed each month by the following individuals: system?
Ayman Asfari, Group Chief Executive is your Board receiving information which allows it to identify when Maroun Semaan, Group Chief Operating Officer delivery of its goals are under threat?
Keith Roberts, Chief Financial Officer what is your general control environment like?
Richard Milne, Group Director of Legal & Commercial Affairs The UK Code provides more explicit guidance than the old Combined Paul Green, Head of Enterprise Risk Management Code in relation to significant risks.
It states that a board should determine the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing If a situation occurs which local management judges to be serious, to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
The change in it will be reported up the chain of command immediately.
emphasis means that going forward a board should be proactively articulating a companys risk appetite rather than being satisfied with We have a group internal audit department.
The Audit Committee simply identifying and managing significant risks.
We are currently approves its audit universe and its annual plan of audits and the reviewing our processes to meet the requirements of the UK Code Group Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings, more effectively.
when he reports on any significant findings in relation to our internal controls.
The Group Head of Internal Audit would report any serious How does the Board identify Petrofacs significant risks?
weakness or lapse in internal controls, including evidence of fraud, Our Head of Enterprise Risk Management provides the Board with to the chairman of the Audit Committee upon discovery.
As customary a written report before each board meeting giving details of our current with an organisation of our size, we rely upon self-assessment by significant risks and how we plan to mitigate them.
The risks that we employees to some extent.
All senior managers and selected consider significant today are shown on pages 30 to 35. employees are required to provide an annual assurance that they have complied with the groups Code of Business Conduct during Our Head of Enterprise Risk Management drafts his report by the year.
reference to: risk matrices he receives from each of our individual business units Does the Board receive information which allows it bottom up approach to identify when delivery of its goals are under threat?
The Board receives a comprehensive written report from Keith the work of the Enterprise Risk Committee which is chaired by the Roberts, the Chief Financial Officer, at each face-to-face board Group Chief Operating Officer top down meeting as well as periodic updates between such meetings.
The Board is kept very well informed about the groups financial How do we intend to respond to changes in the UK Code performance for the year to date compared to the years budget or regarding risk management?
Explanations for variances are provided.
Your Board established a Risk Committee in 2007, with the remit to The budget and five-year plans provided by management for the oversee the groups framework of operational internal controls and risk Boards review incorporate risk analysis as a matter of course.
As reported last year, the Committee approved Over the years this analysis has increased in sophistication and three group policies, as shown in the table below.
These policies were will doubtless continue to do so.
reviewed during the course of the year and revised as appropriate.
The Committee considers performance against each policy at least once Of course, in addition to financial goals, we have strategic and a year.
Through the policies, we feel that the Committee goes a long operational goals.
Ayman Asfari provides us with a full presentation way to articulating the Companys risk appetite and we will continue on business operations at each face-to-face board meeting, during to build on this work.
which he highlights possible impediments to the delivery of our goals.
Articulates our attitude to risks What does Petrofacs general control environment look like?
Policy related to: This is quite hard to define but easier to recognise.
To do so, it is worth Sovereign and Financial Market country, inflation, commodity, currency, asking such questions as: Risk Policy credit and counterparty does the Company seem well run with processes that employees Ethical, Social and Regulatory ethics, contractual liability, nonknow about and adhere to?
Risk Policy compliance with a countrys local laws and regulations do employees understand the minimum behaviour expected of Operational and Contractual project performance, business continuity, them and conversely what will not be tolerated?
Risk Policy leadership change and HSSEIA are there processes in place that allow employees to report something that they consider to be untoward?
is the culture one that encourages openness?
does management make efforts to find out what employees think and feel about the organisation?
78 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued Petrofac has made great efforts to build the foundations for a control We have also established an annual practice of offering analysts environment that does all of these things.
The table below shows and some institutional shareholders the opportunity to visit at least some of our more significant achievements.
In October 2010, we took a group of analysts and investors to Syria where they visited two E&C projects, the Ebla Our people We recruited a Group Head of Human and Jihar gas plants, and the National Training Centre in Homs.
Resources two years ago and are increasingly seeing the benefits of having We write to our major shareholders annually offering them the a global approach to HR.
Having the right opportunity to meet me or the Senior Independent Director.
This year kind of people is key: we need to be able both Thomas Thune Andersen, in his capacity as chairman of the to recruit people who will thrive here and, Remuneration Committee, and I met some of our major shareholders.
equally, to develop our existing employees All shareholders receive hard copies of our Annual Report and Our Code of All of our employees are provided with our Accounts and half year reviews: these, and all announcements Business Conduct Code of Business Conduct and some 6,000 we make to the market, may also be downloaded from our website.
employees have now completed the related e-learning module Who are our major shareholders?
Our Speaking Up All employees have the ability to contact, Those shareholders with holdings of 3% or more as at 25 February 2011 facility in confidence, an independent third party are as follows: called Expolink if they believe that the Code of Business Conduct has been breached.
Percentage We investigate all matters brought to our Number of of issued attention and the Audit Committee is ordinary shares share capital provided with regular retrospective reports Ayman Asfari and family 62,782,114 18.16% Our matrix of delegated We have defined lines of responsibility Maroun Semaan and family 28,082,676 8.12% authorities and delegation of authority throughout the Legal & General Group Plc 12,605,890 3.64% group.
Our matrix sets out those matters which are judged to require Board sanction.
Our Articles of Association have been drafted so that any shareholder Examples include: with 3% or more of our voting rights must disclose its holding.
doing business in high risk locations This brings us in line with UK incorporated companies.
Ordinarily shareholders of Jersey incorporated companies with a UK listing entering into a new contract above need only disclose their holdings if they hold voting rights of 5% or a certain financial size more in a company.
investing in a project which puts a significant level of capital at risk Additional information for shareholders The Companys constitution by which the Company is governed The matrix also sets out those matters is called the Companys Articles of Association.
These can only which are delegated to management.
be changed by shareholders in general meeting by way of special Management is assisted in deciding whether resolution.
This year we are proposing some minor changes to our or not to undertake any new business Articles and you can see further details outlined in our Notice of AGM.
through a series of risk review committees Other policies HSSEIA, Disclosure and Communications, Our AGM Share Dealing Code, Conflicts and, as We hold our AGM in London as we believe that this is the best location already detailed, our group risk policies for the majority of our shareholders.
We spend time and effort to try reviewed by the Risk Committee to ensure that shareholders find the event worthwhile.
Details of this years AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM which We are not complacent and know we always have further work to do accompanies the Annual Report and Accounts.
As a matter of good but, nevertheless, we are pleased with what has been achieved to date.
practice, we will conduct all resolutions on a poll and announce the results to the market as soon as possible after the meeting.
How does the Board make sure that it is aware of its shareholders views?
I look forward to seeing as many of you as possible this year when Ayman Asfari, Keith Roberts and Jonathan Low, our Head of Investor my colleagues and I will be available to answer your questions.
Relations, provide a presentation to research analysts, including a question and answer session, following the announcement of our Rodney Chase full year and half year results.
This is broadcast live on our website Chairman of the Board and may therefore be followed by all shareholders.
Ayman, Keith and 4 March 2011 Jonathan also conduct a series of individual meetings with existing and potential shareholders in the week following our full year and half year results.
Ayman and Keith are therefore well placed to provide the rest of the Board with their insights into shareholder sentiment.
Directors also receive brokers research notes from Jonathan.
