82 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Risk Committee report Dear shareholder I took over the role of chairman of the Risk Committee in May.
I would like to thank my predecessor Kjell Almskog for his efforts: he has left me with a solid foundation on which to build.
The Walker Report emphasised the importance of a risk committee and, while the reports focus was directed at banks and financial institutions, it has influenced the wider corporate community.
In this day and age it is unrealistic to think that the Audit Committee of a company the size of Petrofac can take sole responsibility for oversight of financial, operational and compliance internal controls.
The workload would be excessive.
Both committees will work independently but in a complementary way.
Having had more than 30 years experience in the oil & gas industry, both within E&P and lump-sum contracting, I believe that I can add real value to the Risk Committees work in relation to oversight of operational controls.
I am very fortunate to be joined on the Committee by Rijnhard van Tets and Roxanne Decyk.
Rijnhard brings extensive banking experience, which is particularly useful when considering sovereign and financial market risks.
Roxanne has enjoyed a varied executive career that Role of the Committee culminated in over ten years at Shell, where she was most recently head Reviews group risk policy and procedures of government affairs.
I am sure that this experience will help her provide Oversees group operational risk management systems, including useful insights and advice on ethical and regulatory matters.
In short, insurance provision I believe that our committee is well placed to help the group continue to deepen its non-financial internal control processes.
Ensures effective monitoring of the groups internal controls and risk management The Committee is supported by the Head of Enterprise Risk Management and Maroun Semaan, Keith Roberts and Richard Milne attend meetings as a matter of course.
In addition the Group Treasurer Membership and the Head of Insurance and the Group Head of Security have also Now Stefano Cao Chairman made presentations to the Committee.
In this way, we ensure that our discussions are as worthwhile as possible.
Kjell Almskog This year, as well as reviewing the three Petrofac policies that cover Rijnhard van Tets non-financial controls, we also devoted one meeting to considering the After AGM Stefano Cao Chairman implications of the UK Bribery Act.
Other areas of emphasis were the groups insurance cover, business continuity planning, and security, Roxanne Decyk particularly in relation to new country entry.
Rijnhard van Tets Stefano Cao Chairman of the Risk Committee 4 March 2011 Governance 83 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Risk Committee report The groups overall risk management framework including details New country entry procedures of the key risks facing the business is described on pages 32 to 35.
The risks associated with doing business in a new country are greater than those associated with a country which we know well.
Review of policies We have therefore spent time reviewing our processes and intend During the year the Committee reviewed the following policies: to continue to refine them during 2011.
Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy Security Ethical, Social and Regulatory Risk Policy Security comes under the remit of our HSSEIA department.
In 2010, our Group Head of Security gave a presentation to the Committee on Operational and Contractual Risk Policy group security processes.
He covered both our approach to security in geographies where we are already established and also how we Further detail about the areas covered by each of the policies is seek to ensure the security of our people when we are entering a new set out in a table on page 77.
Our reviews consider whether policies country.
He focused on Iraq and Turkmenistan as these are countries require amending and assurance that they are being adhered to where we will be working in 2011 and beyond.
Business continuity UK Bribery Act We have now largely completed our business continuity planning The UK passed a Bribery Act in 2010 that is scheduled to come for the group.
We are pleased that in 2010 the Aberdeen office was into force in 2011 although later than originally planned.
The Act awarded BS 25999 accreditation.
Our Woking office has held this modernises and consolidates existing UK law on bribery and accreditation since 2009. corruption.
In particular, the Act creates a new corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery.
Our Code of Business Conduct is Insurance clear: Petrofac does not permit the giving or receiving of bribes.
Insurance will always be an essential part of risk transference for Nevertheless, we have to ensure that we have adequate procedures any organisation and we provide regular updates to the Committee.
in place which are designed to prevent bribery.
We have therefore spent considerable effort reviewing and amending our processes.
We will be supporting the roll out of our new processes with an extensive education programme across the group.
