31 Health and Safety Audits Our audit programme is split across 17 locations and most are % 66 now in their third year of the audit cycle.
All sites audited this year have managed to improve their audit score by demonstrating of employees have more effective safety leadership, following best practice risk management principles and complying with the Company safety attended internal guidance note standards.
training programmes Employees All our people are encouraged to develop through a range of activities including project work, coaching and off the job training.
Each employee has their own agreed Personal Development Plan detailing their planned learning and development activities to help % them develop their potential to the full.
5 66% of employees have attended internal training programmes of employees covering a wide range of topics such as Management Skills, Personal Development and Health and Safety.
In addition, 21% have gained formal of employees have attended external training courses with 5% of attendees gaining formal quali cations under our stewardship quali cations under during the year.
our stewardship Apprenticeships The year ahead will see the extension of our apprenticeship programme to our Strathmore facility in Forfar, building on the current apprenticeship arrangements in place at our Cumbernauld site.
% 1 Reward and Recognition of our profits are utilised By benchmarking our pay and bene ts against other companies we ensure that our reward systems are competitive.
We also in supporting charities, link business and performance to our individual reward systems, motivating our people to perform to high standards and to good causes and contribute to the businesss success.
community activities In the past year we have introduced total reward statements for all employees which bring together an individuals complete pay and bene ts elements into a single, easily understood document.
We continue to operate numerous share related employee bene t plans such as SAYE and AESOP which both encourage share ownership and act as a component part of the reward schemes.
Corporate and Social Responsibility 32 The limited edition Strathmore Spring Water bottle helped raise 20,000 for The Princes Trust.
33 Community We continued to support The Princes Trust A. G. BARRs partnership with The Trust entered its second year the work of The Trust by in 2009.
The Trust helps 14 to 30 year olds get a job who are in or leaving care, struggling at school, are unemployed or have investing in a number of their been in trouble with the law.
It has become the U. K. s leading youth charity, offering a range of opportunities including training, community programmes personal development, business start-up support, mentoring and advice.
across the U. K. We continued to support the work of The Trust by investing in a number of their community programmes across the U. K. with a particular focus on Scotland.
Strathmore Spring Water and The Trust teamed up to launch a competition to design an image for a limited edition 500ml Strathmore Spring Water bottle to be sold exclusively in branches of Starbucks.
This initiative raised 20,000 for The Trust, with 5p from each limited edition bottle sold being donated by us to the charity.
The competition, open to all Princes Trust businesses, not only offered the winning entrant the chance to see their design on approximately 500,000 bottles of Strathmore Spring Water but also provided a fantastic prize of a workshop with a top design consultancy who would help to take the winning business to the next level.
The winner, Mark Notton, has launched his design business Studio2v web address: www.
com with the support of The Trust in the last 12 months and now has more than 25 clients and his own premises.
The Princes Trust helping to change young lives.
For more information go to www.
uk Other Charitable Organisations We supported a number of other large charitable organisations in 2009 10 in addition to assisting many thousands of community groups, charities and good causes with donations of Barr soft drinks products and merchandise in order to help them raise much needed funds.
During 2009 10 we contributed an equivalent of 1% pro t in supporting charities, good causes and community activities, a combination of cash, product and employee time.
Corporate and Social Responsibility 34 Community Support Sporting Heroes for the Future Lenzie Academy, Lenzie, East Dumbartonshire Since 2005 we have supported the Daily Records Sporting Heroes In December 2009 we signed an Enterprise in Education for the Future campaign, which aims to support sporting talent Partnership Agreement with Lenzie Academy, one of East and promote sport and health in local communities in Scotland.
The Partnership Agreement In 2009 we provided funding for kits and equipment to six cycling is part of the Scottish Governments Determined to Succeed and four swimming clubs located across Scotland.
strategy for developing enterprise in education.
The strategys aim is to instil an enterprising attitude in todays young people TAUT 100 helps young athletes and A. G. BARR will now be fully involved in helping Lenzie TAUT, in partnership with Sports Aid, invested in a scheme to help Academy to achieve this.
gifted young athletes progress in their sports in 2009.
Our employees are engaged in a range of learning activities with The TAUT 100 scheme, run by Sports Aid, selected 100 gifted pupils including work experience placements, mock interviews, young athletes who are just outside lottery funding.
The selection presentations from the Companys human resources and criteria was based on performance and results within their international teams together with visits to our Cumbernauld site sport but also ensured that a variety of sports and geographical to view the Companys state of the art manufacturing, distribution locations were represented.
From the 100 short listed athletes and warehousing facilities.
a monthly winner was chosen to receive a cash prize and, from the 12 monthly winners in 2009, an overall winner received Ronald Hanna said at the launch of the partnership, a further signi cant cash prize.
The Enterprise in Education Partnership is extremely worthwhile and we are delighted to be part of it.
Im impressed by the Scottish Enterprise Project EDGE commitment of Lenzie Academy through their pupils and staff In 2009 we again participated in Project EDGE.
Now in its fifth and by how much learning and fun they have extracted from the year, Encouraging Dynamic Global Entrepreneurs is delivered first project The Food and Drink Challenge.
by Scottish Enterprise, bringing together students from leading Scottish Universities, fifth year school pupils from across the Together we have got off to a great start and we look forward west of Scotland and international students from universities to participating fully in the other projects that are planned.
in the United States, Poland, Canada and China.
West eld Primary School, Cumbernauld We hosted 12 students in two teams who worked on speci c We continue working with West eld Primary School, the primary projects for both our Commercial and Operations functions.
school local to our Cumbernauld site, as part of our local partnership agreement with the school which involves our staff For further information about our corporate social responsibility working with the pupils to support enterprise projects taking activities, please check the Corporate Responsibility section of place within the school.
co. uk We also continue to support a number of other community organisations local to our sites.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010
