Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Corporate governance This section and the remuneration report detail how the Group has applied the principles of good governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate the day-to-day management of the business.
The board Governance Code 2008 UK and the Sarbanes-Oxley has considered the overall balance between executive and Act 2002 US non-executive directors and believes that the number of executive directors is fully justified by the contribution made The Group has complied with the provisions of the by each of them.
All directors have completed conflicts of Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008, with interest questionnaires and any planned changes in their the following exceptions: directorships outside the Group are subject to prior approval B.
1.1 John Scarisbrick completed nine years service as an by the board.
No conflicts of interest arose in 2010 or to independent non-executive director in August 2010.
The date in 2011 and no situations were or have since been board continues to regard him as independent through identified that might lead to a conflict of interests.
his conduct and the challenging contributions he makes The board reviews the independence of the non-executive both at and between board meetings.
He stepped down directors on appointment and at appropriate intervals and from the remuneration committee on 16 December 2010 considers the six independent non-executive directors to and is no longer included in the number of independent be independent in character, judgement and behaviour, non-executive directors for the purposes of assessing board based on both participation and performance at board balance.
He will retire from the board at the 2011 AGM.
There are no relationships or B.
1.2 Between the retirement of Lucio Lanza at the AGM circumstances which are likely to affect the judgement on 14 May 2010 and 25 January 2011 there were five of any of them.
Kathleen ODonovan became the Senior non-executive directors all of whom were regarded as Independent Director upon the retirement of Jeremy independent until August 2010 when John Scarisbrick Scudamore on 31 January 2011.
The Senior Independent reached his ninth anniversary and six executive directors.
Director provides a communication channel between The Group achieved full compliance with the requirements the Chairman and non-executive directors and is available of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 for the fifth to discuss matters with shareholders, if required.
Janice Roberts and Larry Hirst who joined the board on 25 January 2011, Andy Green who joined the board Composition and operation of the board on 25 February 2011, John Scarisbrick and Young Sohn The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 all have a broad understanding of the Groups technology requires that at least half of the board, excluding the and the practices of major US-based technology Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive companies.
Philip Rowley and Kathleen ODonovan are directors and the board currently comprises six executive both financial experts with strong financial backgrounds.
directors, six independent non-executive directors, one nonThe beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital executive director and the Chairman.
The Chairman was of the Company are set out in the remuneration report.
In regarded as independent at the time of his appointment.
the opinion of the board, these shareholdings do not detract The executive directors are the Chief Executive Officer, the from the non-executive directors independent status.
President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Officer and the General Managers of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions, all of whom play significant roles in 44 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Board meeting attendance The table below shows directors attendance at scheduled board meetings and conference calls or ad hoc meetings which they were eligible to attend during the 2010 financial year: Scheduled board Conference calls meetings ad hoc meetings Number 6 5 Doug Dunn 6 6 4 5 Warren East 6 6 5 5 Tudor Brown 6 6 2 5 Mike Inglis 6 6 5 5 Lucio Lanza retired 14 May 2010 2 3 2 2 Mike Muller 6 6 4 5 Kathleen ODonovan 6 6 2 5 Philip Rowley 6 6 5 5 John Scarisbrick 6 6 4 5 Tim Score 6 6 4 5 Jeremy Scudamore 6 6 5 5 Simon Segars 6 6 4 5 Young Sohn 6 6 4 5 The Chairman is a non-executive director of four other Main responsibilities of the Chairman include: companies ST Microelectronics N. V. Soitec S. A. TomTom leadership of the board and creating the conditions for N. V. and B E Semiconductor Industries N. V. and he does overall board and individual director effectiveness and not chair any other board.
a constructive relationship with good communications Non-executive directors have the opportunity to influence between the executive and non-executive directors: agendas for board discussions and in 2010 were active in ensuring that the board as a whole plays a full and setting the agenda for the strategic review and ensuring the constructive part in the development of strategy and amount of time spent reviewing strategic and operational overall commercial objectives: issues was appropriately balanced.
The board holds at chairing the nomination committee which initiates least one meeting each year in one of the Groups overseas succession planning to retain and build an effective offices and spent three days visiting the Processor Division and complementary board: Design Centre in Austin, Texas in 2010.
In the event that directors are unable to attend a meeting or a conference call ensuring that there is effective communication with they receive and read the papers for consideration at that shareholders and that members of the board develop meeting and have the opportunity to relay their comments an understanding of the views of the major investors and, if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman or the in the Company: Chief Executive Officer after the meeting.
During 2010, promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity the Chairman held at least three meetings with the nonand corporate governance throughout the Company, executive directors without the executives present and particularly at board level: and the non-executive directors met on at least one occasion ensuring that the performance of the board as a whole, without the Chairman being present.
its committees, and individual directors is formally and The directors have the benefit of directors and officers rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
liability insurance and there is an established procedure Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive for individual directors, who consider it necessary in the Officer include: furtherance of their duties, to obtain independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups expense.
In proposing and developing the Companys strategy and addition, all members of the board have access to the overall commercial objectives in conjunction with the advice of the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary executive committee: also acts as secretary to the board committees.
day-to-day management of the Group: managing the executive committee: leading the communication programme with shareholders and analysts: and fostering good relationships with key stakeholders.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 45 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Communicating with our shareholders ARM is committed to regular, clear and consistent communication with our investors and our website contains all the essential information for shareholders, analysts and institutional investors.
Recent executive interviews Latest Annual Report Recent product Latest results announcements Frequently asked questions Future AGM and company events Information and communication with shareholders training to students and faculties.
In 2010 the programme and other stakeholders strengthened its commitment to institutions in India, South America and China to nurture growing talent.
ARM and our Before each meeting, the board is provided with information Partners are seeing the benefit of the University Programme concerning the state of the business and its performance as students graduate with experience in designing with in a form and of a quality appropriate for it to discharge ARM products and as university engineering departments its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and base their own research around ARM technology.
approving the annual report and accounts and the quarterly At present, around 28 sell-side analysts write research reports, and for ensuring that they present a balanced reports on the Group and their details appear on the assessment of the Groups position, lies with the board.
Shareholders can also obtain telephone The board delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing numbers from the website, enabling them to listen to the Group to the executive committee and has a number earnings presentations and audio conference calls with of other committees, details of which are set out on the analysts and, in addition, webcasts or audiocasts of key following pages.
presentations are made available through the website.
The board makes considerable efforts to establish and Members of the board attend the annual analyst and maintain good relationships with shareholders.
There is investor day and develop an understanding of the views regular dialogue with institutional investors during the year of major shareholders through any direct contact that other than during close periods.
The main channel of may be initiated by shareholders, or through analysts and communication continues to be through the Chief Executive brokers briefings.
The board also receives feedback from Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Investor the Groups brokers and financial PR advisers, who in Relations, although the Chairman, the Senior Independent turn obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following Director and the other directors are available to engage in investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive dialogue with major shareholders as appropriate.
The board the Groups press releases via the internet.
also encourages communication with private investors The board actively encourages participation at the AGM, and part of the Groups website is dedicated to providing scheduled for 12 May 2011, which is the principal forum accurate and timely information for all investors including for dialogue with private shareholders.
A presentation comprehensive information about the business, its Partners is made outlining recent developments in the business and products, all press releases, RNS and Securities and and an open question-and-answer session follows to Exchange Commission SEC announcements.
enable shareholders to ask questions about the business We continued to develop our engagement with other in general.
stakeholders in 2010, strengthening our relationships All resolutions proposed at the 2011 AGM will be decided and expanding the ARM network of Partners and our on a poll and the voting results will be published via RNS Connected Community.
and the SEC and will be available on the Groups website.
ARMs University Programme is an important initiative for the future of the business and our relationships with business partners.
We engage with universities around the world, developing the next generation of ARM engineers, donating equipment and software, helping to design courses and textbooks, and providing technical support and 46 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Management structure ARM Holdings plc Board Audit Committee The Group has a traditional UK board structure with a unitary Group board comprising the Chairman, executive and non-executive directors.
The audit and remuneration Remuneration Committee committees are made up of independent non-executive directors and they, together with the nomination committee, report to the Executive Committee Nomination Committee board.
The divisions and functions report to the executive committee.
The risk review committee reports periodically to the executive committee, audit committee and the board.
The head of the Corporate Operations Group Corporate also has a separate reporting arrangement Compliance Information Corporate Risk Review Divisions Operations Committee Systems Responsibilty Committee to the Chairman of the audit committee.
Group Internal Audit Board evaluation, induction and training The terms of reference of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are published on the Groups The board undertakes an annual board evaluation.
2010, this exercise was conducted with the assistance Executive committee of external advisers, Independent Audit, who observed a board meeting, reviewed board papers and had in-depth The executive committee is responsible for developing individual discussions with all directors, other key executives and implementing the strategy approved by the board.
In and the external audit partner.
They presented their findings particular, the committee is responsible for ensuring that the to the board in December 2010.
Their detailed report and Groups budget and forecasts are properly prepared, that recommendations were discussed in detail in January 2011 targets are met and for generally managing and developing and agreed actions will be implemented during 2011. the business within the overall budget.
Variations from the The evaluation covered: budget and changes in strategy require approval from the main board of the Group.
The executive committee, which the work of the board: meets monthly, comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief board committees: Financial Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, succession planning: and the Chief Technology Officer, the General Managers of the process and practicalities.
Processor, Physical IP, System Design Divisions and Media Processing Business Unit, the EVPs of Human Resources, The overall conclusion was that individual board members Corporate Development, Sales and Marketing, the General are satisfied that the board works well and operates Counsel and the Company Secretary and meetings effectively in an environment where there is constructive are attended by other senior operational personnel, as challenge from the non-executive directors.
Biographies of the members of the executive satisfied with the contribution made by their colleagues and committee appear on the Groups website at www.
that board committees operate properly and efficiently.
A full, formal induction programme is arranged for new directors, tailored to their specific requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives across the business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the Group and its activities.
They also receive guidance on the regulatory regimes and corporate governance framework that the Group operates under.
The Group has a commitment to training and all directors, executive or non-executive, are encouraged to attend suitable training courses at the Groups expense.
During 2010, the board received an update from the Company Secretary on UK and US Corporate Governance matters.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 47 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Audit committee In the very challenging economic climate during 2010, the committees focus has been on financial performance and oversight of the way the Group addresses risk.
In 2011 the board anticipates spending more time reviewing its appetite for and approach to risk.
Kathleen ODonovan, Committee Chairman from January 2011 Meetings Name of director Position attended Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 4 4 Kathleen ODonovan Independent non-executive director 4 4 Jeremy Scudamore Senior Independent Director 4 4 Young Sohn Independent non-executive director 4 4 The committees other responsibilities include: During 2010 Philip Rowley was the financial expert as defined in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US.
Kathleen monitoring the integrity of the financial statements ODonovan is also qualified to fulfil this role and became the of the Group and any formal announcements relating financial expert on 26 January 2011 when she assumed to the Groups financial performance and reviewing the chairmanship of the committee.
Both have recent and any significant financial reporting judgements relevant financial expertise.
The external auditors, Chief contained therein: Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the VP Corporate reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls Operations, the Head of Tax and the Company Secretary over financial reporting: attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the information providing oversight of the Groups risk management required by the audit committee for it to operate effectively systems: is available.
Representatives of the Groups external auditors meet with the audit committee at least once a year without making recommendations to the board in relation to the any executive directors being present.
appointment, remuneration and resignation or dismissal of the Groups external auditors: As part of the process to refresh the board and its committees, Janice Roberts and Larry Hirst joined and assessing the external auditors independence and Young Sohn and Jeremy Scudamore stepped down from objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: the audit committee on 26 January 2011. developing and implementing policy on the engagement During the year, the activities of the committee included: of the external auditors to supply non-audit services and assessing their nature, extent and cost effectiveness: and a review of the risk assessment and mitigation processes and development of an enhanced Corporate considering compliance with legal requirements, Risk Register giving the board greater visibility of risk accounting standards, the Listing Rules of the Financial assessment and mitigation within the Group: Services Authority and the requirements of the SEC.
reviewing the 2010 internal and external audit plans and  LLP have been the Groups reports on overseas subsidiaries: auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in April 1998.
The external auditors are required to rotate considering and approving the assumptions in the annual the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary impairment review, prior to approval by the full board: audits every fifth year end and the current lead audit partner reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley compliance has been in place since July 2007.
The audit committee and testing: considers that the relationship with the auditors is working re-approval of the pre-approved non-audit services well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
This policy: and view was supported by a review of the effectiveness of reviewing the external auditors performance, the external audit process which was undertaken early in effectiveness, independence and fees, the results of 2011 involving the audit committee, the executive team and which have enabled us to recommend the reappointment senior managers who interact with the auditors.
It looked at of  LLP.
robustness of audit, quality of delivery and quality of people and service and concluded that the services provided by the auditors and their mode of delivery are effective.
Accordingly, the audit committee has not considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit work.
48 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Gover Governance finance There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups services that have general pre-approval by the audit choice of external auditor.
The committee also keeps under committee: review the value for money of the audit.
The committee has services that require specific pre-approval by the audit discussed with the external auditors their independence, committee before work commences: and and has received and reviewed written disclosures from services that cannot be provided by the auditors.
the external auditors as required by the Auditing Practices The Groups tax advisory work is carried out by the auditors Boards International Standard on Auditing ISA UK and only in cases where they are best suited to perform the Ireland 260 Communication of audit matters with those work in a cost effective manner, given their familiarity with charged with governance, as well as those required by the Groups business.
In other cases, the Group has the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Rule engaged another independent firm of accountants to 3526, Communication with Audit Committees concerning perform tax advisory work.
The Group does not normally independence.
Through this process, the committee has award general consulting work to the auditors.
From time concluded that the auditors are independent.
to time, however, the Group will engage the auditors to Policy on auditors providing non-audit services perform work on matters relating to benchmarking of the To avoid the possibility of the auditors objectivity and internal audit function, human resources, and royalty audits.
independence being compromised, there is an agreed A breakdown of fees paid to the auditors can be found in policy in place on the provision of non-audit services by the note 5 to the financial statements.
auditors, which sets out arrangements for approving: Nomination committee We spent a considerable amount of time and effort in 2010 defining the skills and attributes required for the new non-executive director appointments and in interviewing prospective candidates.
Doug Dunn, Committee Chairman Meetings Name of director Position attended Doug Dunn Chairman 4 4 Lucio Lanza resigned 14 May 2010 Independent non-executive director 0 1 Kathleen ODonovan appointed 14 May 2010 Independent non-executive director 3 3 Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 4 4 John Scarisbrick Non-executive director 4 4 Young Sohn appointed 16 December 2010 Independent non-executive director N A During the year, the activities of the committee included: The committees other responsibilities include: successfully achieving our objective of identifying three leading the process for board appointments and making suitable new independent non-executive directors and recommendations to the board in relation to new recommending their appointment to the board: appointments of executive and non-executive directors: engaging an external search firm, Russell Reynolds, to reviewing succession planning, board composition seek and introduce suitable candidates and we were and balance: and very pleased to welcome Janice Roberts and Larry Hirst considering the roles and capabilities required for each to the board in January 2011 and Andy Green in February new appointment, based on an evaluation of the skills 2011: and and experience of the existing directors.
as part of the process to refresh the board and its committees, Kathleen ODonovan and Young Sohn joined the nomination committee on 14 May 2010 and 16 December 2010 respectively.
ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 49 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Remuneration committee business and can, therefore, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A description of the composition, responsibilities and The Group has a number of other committees and bodies operation of the remuneration committee is set out in which contribute to the overall control environment.
These include: Internal control risk management Risk review committee The Group fully complies with the Combined Code on The risk review committee consists of the Chief Technology Corporate Governance 2008s provisions on internal Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM control, having established procedures to implement the Group and the Company Secretary and it receives and Turnbull Guidance 2005.
The board has established a reviews quarterly reports from the divisions and corporate continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing functions.
The committee is responsible for identifying and the significant risks faced by the Group.
The board confirms evaluating risks which may impact the Groups strategic that the necessary actions have been or are being taken to and business objectives and for monitoring the progress remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from of actions designed to mitigate such risks.
The risk review this process.
committee reports formally to the executive committee twice The board of directors has overall responsibility for a year where its findings are considered and challenged and ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system reports to the board at least once a year.
of internal control and risk management and for reviewing The board will be formally reviewing and documenting its its effectiveness, while implementation of internal control risk appetite during 2011. systems is the responsibility of management.
The Group Compliance committee has implemented an internal control system designed to The compliance committee consists of the General help ensure: Counsel, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial the effective and efficient operation of the Group and Officer, the EVP, Human Resources, the VP Corporate its divisions by enabling management to respond Operations, the Chief Information Officer and the Company appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups Secretary.
It oversees compliance throughout the business business objectives: with all appropriate international regulations, trading requirements and standards, including direct oversight the safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use or from of financial, employment, environmental and security loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are identified processes and policies.
and managed: the quality of internal and external reporting: Disclosure committee The disclosure committee comprises the Chief Executive compliance with applicable laws and regulations and with Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM internal policies on the conduct of the Groups business: Group, the General Counsel, the VP of Investor Relations and and the Company Secretary.
It is responsible for ensuring the ability to recover in a timely manner from the effects that disclosures made by the Group to its shareholders of disasters or major accidents which originate outside and the investment community are accurate, complete the Groups direct control.
and fairly present the Groups financial condition in all Compliance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act material respects.
2002 US has been successfully achieved for each financial Operational meetings year since it became effective for foreign private issuers in In addition, there is a series of interconnected meetings 2006.
This is reported on in more detail in the annual report that span the Group including the weekly executive team on Form 20-F that is filed with the SEC.
The processes meeting chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and the and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing weekly business review meeting chaired by the Chief the significant business, operational, financial, compliance Operating Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor and and other risks facing the Group have been successfully control all main business activities, sales forecasts and integrated into day-to-day business operations through other matters requiring approval.
Each month there are the ARM Management System and are proven to provide Operations and Customer Satisfaction Meetings where a sustainable solution for ongoing compliance.
The board management reviews with representation from the divisions has reviewed and approved the system of internal control, and functions: revenues, orders booked, costs, product including internal controls over the consolidation process and project delivery dates and levels of defects found in and financial reporting, which have been in place for the year products in development.
The outputs of these meetings under review and up to the date of approval of the annual are reviewed by the executive committee which, in turn, report and financial statements.
These controls consist of raises relevant issues with the board of the Group.
extensive reviews by qualified and experienced individuals Internal audit function underpinned by a system of checklists that ensures that all elements of the financial statements and appropriate The Group has an internal audit function that meets criteria disclosures are considered and accurately stated.
set out in the key practice standards prescribed by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
A number of steps were Control systems are designed to manage rather than implemented during 2010 which enhanced the internal eliminate the risks inherent in a fast-moving, high-technology audit function through rebalancing the emphasis between 50 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance operational and financial audit.
These included a more formal given to all employees and arrangements with contractors and rigorous risk assessment process, a broadening of the and suppliers have been and will continue to be reviewed scope of the internal audit programme and an increase in the and updated as appropriate to reflect the requirements financial capability within the Corporate Operations Group.
The Groups management system documents processes As a company whose primary business is the licensing of and responsibilities across all business functions and IP, employees are highly valued and their rights and dignity operations.
As an autonomous part of this system, the are respected.
The Group strives for equal opportunities for internal audit function carries out a programme of audits all its employees and does not tolerate any harassment of, to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, resulting in or discrimination against, its staff.
The Group endeavours to continuous maintenance and improvement of the system, be honest and fair in its relationships with its customers and adapting to changes in business operations as necessary.
suppliers and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the To demonstrate compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the laws of the countries in which it operates.
audit function also maintains the documented controls over The Groups premises are composed entirely of offices financial reporting and confirms the operation of them either since it has no manufacturing activities.
Staff make use by direct testing or through a monitored self-assessment of computer-aided design tools to generate IP.
The management system is audited externally involves neither hazardous substances nor complex waste by Lloyds Register Quality Assurance for compliance with emissions.
With the exception of development systems ISO9001:2008 and as part of its Business Assurance products, the majority of products sold by the Group scheme supports the Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
comprise microprocessor core and physical IP designs Any significant control failings identified through the internal that are delivered electronically to customers.
audit function or the independent auditors are brought to A number of environmental initiatives have continued in the attention of the compliance committee and undergo 2010.
The Groups environmental policy is published on its a detailed process of evaluation of both the failing and website within the CR report.
An environmental action plan the steps taken to remedy it.
There is then a process for is in place, including monitoring energy usage, resource communication of any significant control failures to the consumption and waste creation so that targets set for audit committee.
There were no significant control failures improvement are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing during 2010 or up to 25 February 2011, being the latest controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working with practicable date before the printing of this report.
suppliers to improve environmental management.
Whistleblowing procedures In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association enable the Group to send information to The Group operates a whistleblowing policy which shareholders electronically and make documents available provides for employees to report concerns about any through the website rather than in hard copy, which provide unethical business practices to senior management in both environmental and cost benefits.
Shareholders can opt strict confidence or, if they prefer, anonymously through to continue receiving a printed copy of the annual report if an independent third-party telephone line.
so without fear of recrimination.
The audit committee receives any such confidential reports from the compliance Health and safety committee.
There were no whistleblowing reports in Although ARM operates in an industry and in environments 2010 and none up to 25 February 2011, being the latest which are considered low risk from a health and safety practicable date before the printing of this report.
perspective, the safety of employees, contractors and Environmental, social, corporate governance and visitors is a priority in all ARM workplaces world-wide.
ethical policies Continual improvement in safety management systems is achieved through detailed risk assessments to identify and While the Group is accountable to its shareholders, it also eliminate potential hazards and through occupational health endeavours to take into account the interests of all its assessments for employees.
More detail about the Groups stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers approach to environmental matters and health and safety and the local communities and environments in which it is included in the CR report.
The Chief Financial Officer takes responsibility for these matters, which are considered at board level.
By order of the board A corporate responsibility CR report is included in this report and a more detailed version is available via the Groups website www.
The Group regularly monitors employees awareness of Group policies and procedures, including its ethical policies.
Employees reconfirm their understanding of key policies each year to reinforce Patricia Alsop awareness.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Company Secretary Ethics, which is available on the Groups website, and the Company Rules have been updated in response to the Bribery Act 2010 and will be updated further when the Government guidance is issued.
Further training will be ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 51
