66 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Premier Farnell Leadership Council Premier Farnell Leadership council Originally formed in 2007, the Premier Farnell Leadership a Cultural CHanGe Council PFLC is a leadership body comprising the Premier Farnells leaders spearhead the Groups high direct reports of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief performance culture.
It is this culture that demands flawless Operating Officer the individual business leaders execution and ensures that the organisation is constantly and functional heads.
placing its people and customers at the very heart of its proposition.
We are continually driving towards high In taking our responsibilities as a corporate citizen performance within the organisation and have developed seriously we are constantly working towards a sustainable a set of attributes to guide us which are well utilised and future.
To help us deliver on our commitments, where understood throughout the business.
Building a high possible we lead with technology to facilitate internal performance culture is how we will deliver our strategy for communications and meetings.
With this technology profitable growth and move the organisation forward to led focus in mind the PFLC meets every quarter, in become an even more customer-focused market-leader.
The event uses the latest As part of our commitment to driving this change and telecommunication tools that allow the PFLC to raising standards across the Group, Premier Farnell communicate simultaneously from four global locations.
recognises high performing employees around the business The bringing together of Premier Farnells senior leaders every quarter.
Employees and managers are encouraged to helps provide the wider organisation with clear and submit details of an individual or team that they feel has cohesive communications on current business gone above and beyond their required duties.
Based on performance and the organisations evolution to ensure the following six attributes of a high performance company: industry leadership.
This global, representative and flexible forum, through the research, development and Being driven by leaders: execution of the Groups strategy, ensures we are able to Built on the relentless pursuit of clear strategies: deliver on the commitments we make to our customers, supplier, shareholders and employees.
The flexibility of Energised by an intense performance driven organisation: the PFLC often allows it to draw on the participation of Being aligned by simple structures and systems: professional external experts and talented performers from across the Group, to provide carefully focused input Based on world-class company skills and flawless on business development projects and work streams.
execution: and Such a breadth of involvement ensures that decisions are Being rejuvenated by well developed people systems.
well guided, well formed and always in touch with the needs of the business.
The PFLC evaluates each entry independently and votes for one individual and one team that has exhibited true The PFLCs activities include the evaluation of the risks high performance attributes.
The person and team with and opportunities to both our strategy and the business.
the highest number of votes receive special recognition The last six months has seen the enterprising way in and an award presented by Harriet Green.
In the event of which the PFLC is able to approach such an activity.
very tough competition, highly commended awards may Joined by many talented performers and professional be presented locally by the business leaders.
experts from across the Group, the second half of the year saw the PFLC embark on researching, shaping In the year, Premier Farnell recognised over 115 high and then successfully presenting our strategic review performers from around the business and further embedded to the Board of Directors in October.
Through innovative these attributes in the grain of the organisations culture.
thinking and professional expertise, the PFLC breathed life into our strategy and renewed the organisations focus.
Once again the PFLC has shown how a talented and dynamic leadership body can be at the forefront of empowering an organisations strategy and future business development.
