54 premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review: Resources and Relationships Resources and Relationships EmployEEs As a global business our case for a diverse workforce is compelling and we have regular processes in place to Premier Farnell is a high service distributor and a high review this as well as all other people measures that are performing company.
This culture of high performance strategic imperatives for our business.
To supplement runs throughout the business at every level and is integral these measures and in recognising that people plans are to the business ability to achieve service excellence, with ever-changing, the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial 99.6% of all customer orders delivered the same day or Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief People Officer next day.
attend internal forums in which the key and emerging In October we ran our third all-employee survey.
Many talent pools are reviewed.
These pools of talented companies this year decided not to run such surveys in employees are intrinsic to our business future and we light of the challenging economic climate.
However, we continue to provide our current and future leaders with felt that such a climate provided even more of a reason development opportunities to create a well balanced, for us to listen our employees opinions.
The survey gives diverse and successful workplace.
our employees the chance share their thoughts, ideas Leadership development, succession planning and and views on Premier Farnell and areas of the Companys engagement levels are all critical to providing Premier employment that can be improved.
The employee Farnell with a competitive edge and driving high feedback from this years survey told us that we have performance.
The Premier Farnell Leadership Council is a improved on all known drivers of engagement at Premier leadership body comprising the direct reports of the Chief Farnell, customer focus, leadership, social responsibility, Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
This body communication, training and development, since the has continued to breathe life into our strategy while survey was first launched in 2007.
However, we believe providing strong guidance for all our businesses during that we can continue to improve in many areas of these the recent economic downturn.
All of the our leaders drivers and that this improvement is crucial to our together with their talented teams, have embraced and business performance.
embedded our strategic goals that we have remained Attracting talented people, retaining talent and indentifying focused, positioning the Group well to lead the high internal talent within the Group is of the utmost importance service industry.
Our commitment to investing in Employee engagement is at the forefront of many of our our future continues to afford us the opportunity to attract workplace initiatives.
For the past year overall employee talent from within our industry and specialists in their own engagement has been a measurable personal objective field.
It is our ability to create opportunities like these that for all of the Premier Farnells senior leadership team in has allowed us to develop a high performance culture that recognition of the importance attributed to an actively underpins our industry leadership.
We have made good engaged workforce.
We have continued with our progress this year in enhancing our employee value successful 360 degree feedback programme which proposition and as part of the strategic review undertaken continues to be successful in the self development of our this year we evaluated the different demographics within leaders, giving them a better sense of their performance our employee base.
This evaluation provided us with a and more importantly how it impacts employees.
further understanding of our employees needs, depending on where they are on their personal career ladder.
This work is currently being aligned to our commitment to provide desirable and exciting personal development opportunities.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Business Review: Resources and Relationships This year we launched a portal that is designed to customeR RelatioNshiPs promote internal mentoring, making it easier to share skills The MDD businesses have a customer base comprised and knowledge from mentor to mentee and from mentee of some 2,000,000 customer contacts.
Mentoring as a skill or process epitomises the typically electronic design engineers, production and spirit of development and is about sharing, listening, and maintenance engineers or procurement specialists.
Employees who have participated in They represent a diverse spectrum of private and public our mentoring scheme talk about how their experiences organisations, covering 156 industries and areas of had a positive impact on their careers.
No single customer represents more than this programme has led to the decision being made for 2% of Group sales.
it to be rolled out across all levels and functions within The Group has Customer Relationship Management the organisation.
CRM systems within its key MDD businesses.
These are As part of our ongoing internal development programme adding to a growing understanding of customers needs our employees are encouraged to take one hour a week and enabling the business to offer specific customers for personal development.
This time is used in a variety the services that they most value.
The Group also has of ways including, one hour lunch and learn forums, job a suite of web diagnostic tools which improves our shadowing a role related to aspirational development, understanding of customers web technology needs, developing new skills within our eLife environment or product preferences and provides a unique insight into studying modules in our Online Learning Centre.
the ways in which customers work.
In addition, all employees meet with their managers The MDD businesses manage relationships with at least every six months to review performance and customers through multiple channels including websites, talk about career aspirations, which are included in catalogues and conversations with customers, both by an aspirational development plan.
These aspirational phone and face-to-face.
development plans are reviewed internally when we are resourcing new project teams to give employees the opportunity to work within cross-functional, global suPPlieR RelatioNshiPs groups that will determine the shape of our business The MDD businesses work with over 2,500 suppliers, future.
The work streams within these projects are stock approximately 400,000 products, and offer access designed to get the very best out of our employees by to more than 4,000,000 other products.
Suppliers are stretching their capabilities as they work on strategically attracted to the Divisions ability to leverage multi-channel important projects that are outside of their daily scope.
solutions-based technology marketing to seed new products to market, its large and global customer base maRket PositioN aNd RePutatioN with a proposition that continues to attract new customers and its capability to distribute all supporting design The Marketing and Distribution Division trades through information to end customers.
Our suppliers also benefit several major brands including Farnell, and Newark.
from our ability to provide insightful data on what As their product portfolios and customer bases are ultimately drives customer choice in the earliest phase diverse, the precise market positions of these brands of design through sophisticated suites of web analytics.
The roots of these major brands This kind of intelligent information and data can help our are all over 70 years-old and have high recognition and suppliers when making future business decisions on prominence within their particular markets.
They are true technology and end market focuses for example.
multi-channel operations with online and paper-based product information, marketing programmes and The supplier base is balanced, offering customers around relationship management.
The success of these the globe a breadth of products and technology solutions programmes within their key market segments, as well from many different suppliers, while also offering deeper as their brand reputations, is reviewed through regular product ranges from some key suppliers with whom the market surveys.
Division has strategic alliances and improved commercial terms.
56 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 business review: Resources and Relationships Resources and Relationships continued Across Farnell and Newark, the portfolio of suppliers is Distribution network anD inventory managed by an international team.
The largest suppliers The Marketing and Distribution Division has operations within this portfolio include many global premium in 31 countries.
These are supported by a network of brands for whom integrated, go to market strategies are distribution centres that enable the Division to ship developed, including innovative eSupplier strategies.
products anywhere in the world within one to three days.
During the year, the Division continued to build its 99.6% of all orders are dispatched on the day they are proposition to design engineers, securing new distribution placed and received the next day.
agreements with prestigious suppliers including Altera The network is comprised of seven primary distribution and ON Semiconductor to fill technology gaps in certain centres: regions.
Many of these new suppliers develop new, emerging technologies that are in very high demand US Gaffney South Carolina and Springboro Ohio from EDE customers.
Additionally, the Division secured territorial extensions with existing suppliers to support UK Leeds and Preston our emerging businesses in Asia Pacific, Brazil and Mainland Europe Lige Belgium Eastern Europe.
Asia Singapore Elsewhere within the Division, supplier relationships are managed at a business level, enabling specific customer Australia Sydney needs to be met by sourcing, for example, locally branded These are supplemented by satellite warehouses in other products, or value-brand products from Asia.
locations including Mexico, Brazil and China.
Collectively, this network handles an average of 20,000 orders per day and stocks some 400,000 products.
Technology systems are therefore central to delivering high service.
The network is managed by a global supply chain team that shares best practice between locations and drives a programme of continuous improvement in accuracy, efficiency and service.
At the year end the Group held 175.2 million of inventory in its businesses, of which 157.5 million was in the MDD businesses.
Inventory is managed on a line-by-line basis, utilising best-in-class forecasting and stock monitoring IT systems.
The re-ordering of most products is automated, enabling purchasing teams to manage order quantity, delivery or demand exceptions.
Order fill rates are among the highest in the industry, inline with the Groups commitment to service excellence.
The Division aims to increase stock turns through the use of ever more intelligent systems, seamless supply chain integration with suppliers, and elimination of any non-moving stocks.
The Division uses a variety of third-party carriers to ship orders.
It has a strategic relationship with UPS, its principal carrier, responsible for approximately two-thirds of its worldwide deliveries each day.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Business Review: Resources and Relationships The annual your voice survey The annual your voice survey is very important to me Since 2007 training and development has been an important internal focus for Premier Farnell.
As an organisation which promotes career progression and succession we are delighted that the 2009 survey results showed improvement in this area over 2008, with a 3% increase in positive responses.
The opportunity to train in and develop new skills is something which has been notably embraced by all of our distribution centres across the globe.
Our commitment to investing in new and innovative training resources has seen overall engagement levels in our distribution centres grow 10% since 2008, led by the increases seen in our distribution facilities in the UK.
Adopting a clear and transparent approach with employee communications helps an organisation build For Premier Farnell employee engagement employee confidence and strengthen relationships.
This years survey saw a significant increase in how is at the very heart of our high performance our employees feel we communicate on all subjects culture and in October 2009 we ran our third important to both them and our wider stakeholder Your Voice all-employee survey.
Driven by our leaders ability to communicate effectively, our overall communication score rose to 86% The decision to run the survey delivered a message to in 2009.
This eclipses the 83% achieved in 2008 and sits our employees that we are serious in our commitment 3% above the benchmark set for high performing to listen.
Our employees responded positively with 87.1% companies.
of people within the organisation completing the survey.
This completion rate is up from the 2008 level of 80.5% and is 6.6% above the high performance company norm.
The results of the survey provide us with the opportunity Premier Farnell is a truly high performing to respond to employee feedback and make the changes we need to as a result.
company where our leaders take what Over the course of the year our strategic transformation employees have to say seriously.
has been accelerated, leading to much organisational Having the opportunity to take part change, particularly in North America.
Despite this, and the magnitude of economic uncertainty throughout 2009, in the annual your voice survey is very the survey demonstrated that the number of employees important to me as it gives me a chance who are actively engaged has increased 1% since 2008, to 77%.
This example of improving employee engagement to express my feelings.
is one of many high performance attributes that we at Premier Farnell embrace to ensure we remain a truly Connie Liu, Reward Analyst high performing company.
