Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Governance: Corporate Governance corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of Dennis Millard is the Companys Senior Independent corporate governance throughout the Group.
The Board Non-Executive Director and is available to shareholders is accountable for corporate governance and this statement if they have concerns which contact through the normal describes how the principles identified in the Combined channels cannot resolve, or where the normal channels Code on Corporate Governance 2008 available on are not appropriate.
He is also available as a sounding www.
uk are applied by the Company.
board for the Chairman and leads the process for the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Biographies of the Board members appear on pages Combined Code throughout the year, except that not all 64 and 65.
These indicate the high level and broad range Non-Executive Directors attended meetings with major of experience that the Directors possess.
This point is explained below.
has proved to be extremely valuable to the Company in steering it through the very challenging business Information relating to the Companys share capital conditions prevailing since autumn 2009 so that it is structure is included in the Directors Report on page 74. well placed to benefit from improvements in the world economy.
Their knowledge of the Groups business and of direCtors legal, accounting and market developments is frequently Throughout the year, the Board consisted of the Chairman, updated by presentations made at Board and Board four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The Chairman continued with his other commitments The appointment letters for Non-Executive Directors as previously disclosed consisting of the Non-Executive include the time commitment expected of them and Chairmanships of Tate & Lyle Plc, GHG Limited General confirmation that they have sufficient time available to Healthcare Group and Vertex Data Science Limited meet this commitment.
Non-Executive Directors are and his memberships of the Advisory Board of the UK required to obtain the approval of the Chairman before Defence Academy and the Court and Council of Imperial taking on further appointments and the Chairman College.
In January 2010 he also became a member of the requires approval from the Board before adding to Conservative Party Shadow Public Services Productivity his commitments.
A formal and comprehensive induction process is in All the Non-Executive Directors who have served during place for new Directors, including presentations from the year are considered by the Board to be independent.
Non-Executive Directors continue to make site visits to various Group locations In response to the requirements of the Companies Act on an annual basis to improve their knowledge of the 2006 introduced in October 2008, each Director has business, the Groups core markets and its senior notified the Company of any situation in which he or she personnel and to enable them to provide valuable has, or can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, insights to the executive management.
or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
These interests were considered Any Director appointed during the year is required, under and approved by the Board in accordance with the the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, Companys Articles of Association and each Director was to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next informed of the authorisation and the terms on which it Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that was given.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult every Director must retire and seek re-election at least with the Company Secretary regarding any further every three years.
possible situational conflict that may arise so that prior consideration can be given by the Board to whether or not such conflict will be approved.
In addition, the Board has decided that it will review all situational conflicts annually and it has done so as part of the process of preparation of this report.
68 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued tHe Board role and MeetinGs During the year all Directors attended the Board meetings The role of the Board is to: that were held during their respective periods of service, apart from Andrew Dougal who was unable to attend one provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company of the additional, unscheduled meetings of the Board.
within a framework of prudent and effective controls All members of the respective committees attended the which enable risk to be assessed and managed: five Audit Committee, six Remuneration Committee four scheduled and two additional and two Nominations set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the Committee meetings that were held, apart from William necessary financial and human resources are in place Korb who was unable to attend one of the additional, for the Company to meet its objectives, and review unscheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
management performance: Complete copies of the terms of reference of the Audit, set the Companys values and standards for which the Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available Board has responsibility either legal, regulatory or as on the Companys website at www.
part of best practice and ensure that its obligations to The membership of the Committees appears on page 64. its shareholders and others are understood and met: The Non-Executive Directors held meetings during the ensure adequate succession planning is in place for year without the Executive Directors present to discuss, the Groups most senior management: and among other things, the performance of the Company establish and monitor the Groups policies and and the Executive Directors, and the Non-Executive and performance in the area of corporate social Executive Directors met without the Chairman present to responsibility.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take exercises control over the performance of each operating independent professional advice at the Companys company within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets expense, if necessary, in the performance of their duties.
and monitoring performance against those targets.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has Certain matters are reserved for approval by the Board to the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary and the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups is charged by the Board with ensuring that Board system of internal controls and risk management, as procedures are followed and for advising the Board described later in this report.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are The Board has adopted a number of corporate clearly defined and separate.
The Group Chief Executive governance policies, including a Group Code of Ethics is responsible for the executive management of the covering issues such as conflicts of interest, fraud and Groups business: the Chairman runs the Board.
A copy of the Code is also available on the Companys website at www.
The Board has five scheduled meetings each year The Company has implemented arrangements with an and others as required.
During 2009 three additional independent organisation to receive information from Board meetings were held to consider the Companys employees for whistle-blowing purposes.
The Company performance for the first half of the year and its budget has also adopted policies on share dealing, inside for the second half: the acquisition of CadSoft and the information and Corporate Social Responsibility.
The matters reserved to the Board for decision include major capital expenditure, significant To enable the Board to function effectively and assist investments or disposals, treasury policy and the Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of In certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
of papers, including regular business progress reports and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
In addition, individual Directors meet with senior management and are encouraged to make periodic site visits, including overseas where appropriate.
Senior managers are regularly invited to Board meetings and make business presentations.
The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary, maintains a rolling 12-month agenda for Board meetings to ensure all relevant matters are planned in to the cycle of meetings and considered at the appropriate time.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Governance: Corporate Governance tHe Board perforManCe evaluation The main points from this review were that: During the year a performance evaluation was carried out covering the Board, each of the principal Board 2009 perforManCe revieW Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation process consisted of a one-to-one discussion between Actions taken during the Chairman and each of the other Directors and the outcome the year Company Secretary.
This discussion was based on a Improve the process for This was noted by series of questions devised for the purpose and circulated setting performance the Chairman of the before the meetings.
These questions were framed to goals and targets in Remuneration Committee focus on high-level issues, as evaluations from earlier incentive schemes and was reflected in a more years already indicated high standards in respect of board detailed process that was and committee composition and processes.
In addition, very closely aligned to the each Director completed a questionnaire appraising the business circumstances and performance of each other Director.
The results of these priorities for the year for evaluations were collated by the Company Secretary example splitting the year and considered by the Chairman or, in the case of the into two halves for the annual Chairman, by the Senior Independent Director.
The bonus and using Return on Chairman discussed with each Director points arising Sales as the performance from his or her evaluation.
target for the performance The evaluation of the Chairman was discussed in a share plan.
meeting of the Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Provide the Board Regularly updated Independent Director.
The Executive Directors and with more information competitor data is now Company Secretary also attended to give their views.
to benchmark available to Board members The Senior Independent Director subsequently discussed the Companys on the Companys online the outcomes of this evaluation with the Chairman.
performance against Board information system The performance of the Board as a whole and of each its main competitors and additional, detailed of its principal Committees was considered by the Board.
insight was provided during The Chairman led this discussion, based on the results of the Board strategy day his one-to-one discussions.
The Board also reviewed the referred to below.
main outcomes of the prior years evaluation process and the actions taken.
Increase the Boards Business Agenda updates input to, and focus on, are provided at every Board progress of the meeting.
The Board has Companys strategy received comprehensive presentations from the Newark and Farnell businesses.
A full day strategy meeting was held in October 2009 at which the Board considered all key elements of the Companys strategy, facilitated by presentations from both internal and external experts.
Identify a method to A Board member mentoring allow Non-Executive programme was introduced, Directors to get to know with each Non-Executive key executives in Director assigned a number greater depth of key executives below Board level.
The NonExecutives hold regular one-to-one discussions with each of their mentees.
70 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued 2010 perforManCe revieW Main outCoMes noMinations CoMMittee The Board discussed some of the most significant The Nominations Committee, comprising Sir Peter Gershon, decisions it had made over the past 24 months in Dennis Millard, and William Korb, meets as necessary.
order to assess what lessons could be learned from The Committees principal function is to provide advice the decision making process and the outcome of the and recommendations to the Board on any appointments decisions themselves.
The Committee also keeps the composition The Board considered various levels of indicator of board and balance of the Board under review.
capability and discussed how it can maximise the value it adds to the Company.
audit CoMMittee and internal Control The primary role of the Audit Committee is to keep under The current structure and frequency of Non-Executive review the Groups financial and other systems and Director only meetings was debated and the Board controls and its financial reporting procedures.
In fulfilling concluded that the current approach is appropriate and this role, the Committee receives and reviews work should be retained.
carried out by the Internal and External Auditors and their With the Companys increasing focus on eCommerce findings.
The Companys Internal Audit department works and the web in particular, it was felt that the Board would to an annual programme developed in consultation with benefit from additional knowledge and experience in this the Committee, as well as covering specific matters area and this has been included in the criteria for a new arising during the year.
Non-Executive Director to be appointed following William The Audit Committees terms of reference are available Korbs retirement from the Board at the Companys on the Companys website.
In addition, and following a Annual General Meeting in June 2010. recommendation from the Smith Report, the Committee The Board felt that Non-Executive Directors would benefit has also adopted and implemented a Group-wide policy from further opportunities to understand the views of the restricting the appointment of former employees of the Companys major shareholders, potential investors and external auditors.
analysts by, for example, attending the presentations of Dennis Millard, the Committees Chairman, was formerly the Companys results to analysts.
the Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc and is The Board concluded that it would define its collective Chairman of the Audit Committees of Debenhams plc risk appetite, which aligns with the subsequent and Xchanging plc and brings financial expertise to the recommendations made by the Financial Reporting Committee.
Other members of the Committee also have Council as a result of its review of the Combined Code.
The actions taken to address these outcomes will be set The Committee keeps the scope and cost-effectiveness out in the Companys Annual Report to January 2011. of both the internal and external audit functions under review.
This now includes an annual review of the In view of the importance that the Board attaches to effectiveness of the external auditors, including their Corporate Governance and to the accountability of the quality control procedures.
Following the appointment of Chairman for the effective leadership of the Board, it was a new Head of Internal Audit during 2008, the Committee also decided that the Chairman will stand for annual reviewed and approved his proposals for the future re-election by shareholders, commencing at the June structure of the department and this has been 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The Internal Audit function now consists of internal resource including the Head of Internal Audit, reMuneration who is responsible for the function as a whole and The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee external resource provided by KPMG LLP.
The Committee is set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 to 87. believe this approach provides a broad range of skills and international experience in a cost-effective manner.
Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement of the Companys remuneration policy also appear in the The independence and objectivity of the external auditors Remuneration Report.
is also considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The split between Each Executive Director abstains from any discussion or audit and non-audit fees for the year to 31 January 2010 voting at full Board meetings on Remuneration Committee and information on the nature of the non-audit fees recommendations where the recommendations have a incurred appear in note 4 to the Consolidated Financial direct bearing on his or her own remuneration package.
The non-audit fees were paid in respect The details of each Executive Directors individual of tax compliance work and are considered by the package are fixed by the Remuneration Committee Committee not to affect the independence or objectivity inline with the policy adopted by the full Board.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 Governance: Corporate Governance The external auditors appointment is subject to periodic risk identifiCation review by the Committee and the lead audit partner is As well as the risks that management identifies through rotated at least every five years.
The Committee also the ongoing processes of reporting and comparing actual maintains a formal policy on the provision of non-audit performance against detailed financial and operating services by the auditors, which is reviewed each year.
plans, analysing significant variances and scrutinising This policy prohibits the provision of services such as key performance indicators, the risk identification financial information systems design and implementation: processes include: internal audit outsourcing and legal services and requires An ongoing risks and controls process for identifying, that others are subject to prior approval by the Committee evaluating and managing major business risks.
This policy allows specific tax compliance the year business and function leaders have operated services within defined monetary limits to be prethe process, which has been co-ordinated by the Head approved by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The results of the process are All other permitted non-audit services are considered on reviewed by the Audit Committee: a case-by-case basis.
An assurance framework summary, developed to At each of its meetings, the Committee is provided with identify the strategic issues on which assurance is information on all non-audit services provided by the required, the external and internal sources from which auditors and the estimated cost of such services.
that assurance is obtained and any ways in which that The Committee monitors such costs, in the context of assurance may need to be enhanced.
The summary the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that the value is reviewed by the Audit Committee not less of non-audit services does not increase to a level where than annually: it has the potential to affect the auditors objectivity and independence.
Internal audit and external audit reports which, as well as commenting on controls to manage identified risks, The Committee also receives an annual confirmation also identify new risk areas: of independence from the auditors.
A Code of Ethics that encourages employees to Throughout the year, the Group has been in full report any areas of concern regarding compliance compliance with the applicable provisions on internal with financial and other controls, combined with a control contained in the Combined Code.
confidential whistle-blowing helpline, the Trustline.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups In addition, the Companys employees are encouraged system of internal controls and risk management, to raise comments, questions, issues and concerns designed to safeguard shareholder investment and the that they have directly with the Chief Executive, using Companys assets.
The Audit Committee monitors the the askharriet email address set up specifically for systems effectiveness on behalf of the Board and reviews this purpose.
Through this confidential route, Harriet it at least annually, while responsibility for implementing Green receives hundreds of comments and queries the system rests with the Executive Directors.
The system each year on a range of issues, each of which receives includes an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating a response: and managing significant business risks.
However, any A Disclosure Committee that meets at least four times system can provide only reasonable and not absolute a year to review all financial statements issued by assurance of meeting internal control objectives and is the Company.
The minutes of all meetings of this designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the Committee are received by the Audit Committee: and Company failing to meet its business objectives.
A quarterly process which collates all contingent Summarised below are the ways in which risks are liabilities identified by business units and function identified: the controls that are in place and the assurance heads and leads to their presentation to the Disclosure steps that are taken.
The processes described have been Committee and the Audit Committee.
in place for the year and accord with the 2005 Internal Control Guidelines for directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
72 Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance continued Controls Internal Audit reports include recommendations to A Code of Ethics that is widely communicated improve internal controls, together with agreed senior including via the Group intranet and supported management responsibility and target resolution dates.
by a module on the Groups online learning centre The Internal Audit Reports, included in the papers for that clearly defines expected standards of every Audit Committee meeting, summarise these business behaviour: recommendations: Defined organisational structure with appropriate Internal Audit follows up implementation of delegation of authorities: recommendations.
The follow up process for high priority internal audit issues includes monthly status Formal authorisation procedures for all investments: reporting to senior management and updates at each Audit Committee meeting: Clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for the maintenance of good financial The Audit Committee receives a full report from the controls and the production and review of detailed, Head of Internal Audit each year on the departments accurate and timely financial management information: work and findings, in addition to the updates on specific issues provided at each meeting of the The control of key financial risks through clear Committee: authorisation levels and proper segregation of duties: The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function is A comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes externally assessed every three years: an annual budget approved by the Board and review of monthly variances against detailed financial and A comprehensive external audit plan is agreed with the operating plans: Audit Committee: A quarter-end controls checklist.
This includes sign-off The effectiveness of the external auditor is reviewed from both the CEO and CFO of each business covering annually and reported to the Audit Committee: and internal controls, legal and regulatory compliance, Code of Ethics, and tax issues as well as financial Certification is required from individual executive controls: and managers of relevant sections of all financial statements.
A process of internal control self-assessment, co-ordinated by Internal Audit.
An executive management committee, the Disclosure Committee, monitors and reviews processes for disclosures made by the Company to its shareholders assuranCe and reviews such disclosures before they are considered The risks and controls process clearly identifies by the Board.
senior management responsibilities for risk mitigation action plans: The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities and all Board members receive copies of the minutes of Internal Audit independently reviews the risks and Audit Committee meetings.
controls process operated by management: The Audit Committee has completed its review of the In compiling the assurance framework summary, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls senior management review the sources of assurance during the year and confirms that the necessary action in relation to principal business risks and identify to plans to remedy identified weaknesses in internal control the Audit Committee with whom responsibility for are in place.
the provision of assurance on those risks lies: The statement of the Directors responsibilities in relation Internal Audit carries out independent audits.
to the accounts appears on page 77.
The annual Internal Audit plan, agreed with the Audit Committee at the start of each year, provides a high degree of financial and location coverage, as well as allocating a significant proportion of effort to reviewing the risk management frameworks surrounding major business risks: Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Governance: Corporate Governance GoinG ConCern The Chairman is available to shareholders at any In making its determination that the going concern basis time to discuss strategy and governance matters.
is the appropriate basis of preparation for the financial While Non-Executive Directors do not ordinarily attend statements, the Board has considered a number of meetings with major shareholders, they would do so if factors.
These have included, but are not limited to: this were requested by shareholders.
During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee held a number 1.
The Groups operating plan for the next 12 months.
of meetings with shareholders to discuss the Companys proposed changes to remuneration structure and how 2.
Market forecast data, where available, for the end these are aligned with the Companys strategy.
markets in which it operates.
All ordinary shareholders have the opportunity to ask 3.
An evaluation of the Groups borrowing requirements questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
over the next 12 months, including monthly peak All Directors are usually available to take questions at forecasts.
A review of contingent liabilities which potentially might At the AGM, separate resolutions are proposed on each crystallise over the 12 months.
separate issue and proxy forms allow shareholders to vote The Board has also reviewed the sensitivity of its for or against, or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
operating plans to changes in activity levels as well as The results of proxy voting are made available on the macro-economic factors that impact profitability and Companys website after the meeting and at the meeting cash flow e. g. interest rates.
itself to shareholders who attend.
Finally, the Board has reviewed and considered the nature The notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least of the actions that it could take to respond to adverse 20 working days before the meeting.
movements in the operating environment and which might lead to a situation where the Board was forced As discussed in the Directors Report, employee to reconsider its ability to continue as a going concern.
communication is given high priority.
As well as formal structures, such as the Companys European Works Based on this evaluation, the Directors have a reasonable Council, considerable time is devoted to other forms expectation that the Company and the Group have of employee communication.
These include extensive adequate resources to continue in operational existence employee briefings conducted by the Chief Executive and for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue other members of senior management at regular intervals to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the and a Group-wide intranet that is updated daily with accounts.
All employees receive face to face briefings from their manager on the Groups CoMMuniCation WitH stakeHolders performance every quarter and kick-off meetings are The Company places a great deal of importance on held every year across the entire Group to inform and communication with its stakeholders.
involve employees in the strategic priorities for the There is regular dialogue with individual institutional year ahead.
shareholders as well as general presentations after The Group also communicates widely with suppliers and the interim and preliminary results.
The Chief Executive customers, both individually and through group events and Chief Financial Officer hold regular and frequent such as seminars on key industry developments and meetings with a significant number of such shareholders.
All Company announcements are published on the Companys website, together with presentation materials.
The Group is also active in its local communities, as described in the Corporate Responsibility section The Board regards the discussion of the Companys of the Business Review and in its online Corporate Social strategy as primarily the role of the Chief Executive Responsibility Report.
and this forms part of the regular meetings held with institutional shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on the Company.
