Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Q.
How is the Board structured?
We are the UKs largest ambient grocery producer: manufacturing, A.
On 31 December 2010 the Board consisted of a non-executive distributing and selling branded and non-branded food to the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
We strive for best practice in corporate governance In accordance with the Code separate individuals held the office to ensure this area reflects our position in the UK food industry.
of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Following his retirement We believe in fairness and transparency in governance and in David Kappler was retained on a three month consultancy contract maintaining the highest ethical standards in all our business to assist with the handover process to Ronnie Bell.
2011 Ronnie Bell, Robert Schofield, David Beever and David Wild appointed on 7 March 2011 will seek re-election.
David Felwick will The following corporate governance report forms part of the be stepping down at the AGM 2011. directors report and is incorporated into it by reference.
This report shows how the Group has applied the principles of good corporate The independence, external experience and challenge non-executive governance as set out in section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on directors bring to the Board is essential to its effective operation.
The Corporate Governance the Code, which is available on the FRCs current non-executive directors bring extensive and broad ranging website.
Except in relation to the temporary fall in membership levels experience covering marketing, sales, commercial, retail, corporate on the remuneration committee explained on page 63, footnote 4, finance, general finance and corporate governance.
The Board the Company complied with all the provisions of the Code.
This considers that the non-executive directors, with the exception of year we have decided to align this Report with the themes found Charles Miller Smith as noted below, are independent in character and in the Code: judgement.
l Leadership pages 54 to 55 Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between the l Effectiveness pages 55 to 60 Company and Warburg Pincus, Charles Milller Smith, a senior l Accountability page 60 adviser to Warburg Pincus LLC, was appointed to the Board.
l Communication page 61 Under the agreement, Warburg Pincus, with the agreement of the l Remuneration found in the remuneration report on pages Company may appoint to the Board a director so long as they 62 to 72 retain a minimum interest of 239,802,158 shares in the Company.
LEADERSHIP Ronnie Bell is also chairman of Milk Link Ltd a supplier of milk to the Q.
What changes have been made to the Board during Group.
The Board reviewed this relationship on his appointment and the year?
was satisfied that it does not impact on his independence.
Ronnie will absent himself from any discussions regarding Milk Link at the A.
The most significant change in the year has been the Board.
appointment of Ronnie Bell as non-executive Chairman following the retirement of David Kappler in September 2010.
An overview of all Save as disclosed above no director had a material interest at any the directors who held office during the year is set out below: time in any contract of significance with the Company or Group other than their service contract.
Director Designation Ronnie Bell Non-executive Chairman Biographies of the current directors and members of the Group Charles Miller Smith Non-executive Deputy Chairman Executive are provided on pages 48 to 50.
Biographies of those Robert Schofield Chief Executive Officer directors seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM 2011 can also Jim Smart Chief Financial Officer be found in the Notice of AGM.
Tim Kelly Chief Operating Officer David Beever Independent non-executive director Details of the directors service contracts, letters of appointment, David Felwick Senior independent director emoluments, directors interests and beneficial interests in Company Louise Makin Independent non-executive director shares and share options are found in the remuneration report on Ian McHoul Independent non-executive director pages 62 to 72.
1 David Kappler Non-executive Chairman 2 Christine Cross Independent non-executive director Q.
What are the Boards responsibilities?
1 Retired as a director on 30 September 2010.
The Board has an agreed schedule of matters reserved to it: 2 Retired as a director on 31 January 2010. these include: l Setting long-term strategic and commercial objectives: l Approving annual operating and capital budgets: l Reviewing business performance: l Overseeing the Groups internal control systems: and l Ensuring appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives.
The Board delegates to the Group Executive responsibility for overseeing the implementation of the Groups policies and strategy.
54 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
What are the Chief Executive Officers responsibilities?
How does the Board allocate its time?
A. Robert Schofield is responsible for the executive management A.
Below is a chart which summarises the approximate time the of the Group and for ensuring the implementation of Board strategy Board has spent discussing agenda items during the year to and policy within the approved budgets and timescales.
Jim Smart, 31 December 2010: Tim Kelly and the Group Executive who head up the Groups Strategy 29% Operations 30% principal operations and functions assist Robert Schofield in Finance & Risk 22% meeting his responsibilities.
What are the Chairmans responsibilities?
The Chairmans responsibilities are primarily the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
This is achieved by: l Chairing Board meetings: setting the agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary: and EFFECTIVENESS encouraging directors active participation in Board discussions: Q.
What is the mix between executive and non-executive l Leading the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees directors on the Board?
and individual directors: l Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance A.
The directors believe that there should be an appropriate including compliance with the Code wherever possible: combination of executive and non-executive directors on the l Ensuring timely and accurate distribution of information to the Board.
The Code states that at least half the Board excluding the directors and effective communication with shareholders: Chairman should comprise non-executive directors.
The current mix l Establishing an effective working relationship with the Chief of directors is shown below excluding David Wild, appointed on Executive Officer by providing support and advice whilst 7 March 2011. respecting executive responsibility: and Chairman NED 1 Executive directors 3 l Periodically holding meetings with the non-executive directors Non-executive directors 5 without the executive directors present.
Does the Chairman hold any other appointments?
A. Ronnie Bell is the non-executive Chairman of Milk Link Ltd and a director of The Edrington Group Ltd. Q.
Does the Company arrange new director inductions?
Yes, all directors receive an induction on joining the Board, Q.
What is the average length of time directors are covering their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Non-executive appointed to the Board?
directors also receive a full briefing document on all areas of the Companys business and they may request such further information A.
The Board believes it is important to maintain an appropriate as they consider necessary.
balance of length of service to ensure independent judgement and also an appropriate level of skills and experience.
Does the Company have insurance to cover the undertakes a review of succession plans for both executive and nondirectors?
The length of service of the current non-executive directors is shown in the graph below against the average length of A.
Yes, the Company purchases directors and officers liability and service, which currently stands at four years.
This insurance covers the directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves in civil proceedings taken In addition, shareholders must approve the reappointment of the against them in their capacity as a director or officer of the Company directors and accordingly at each AGM one-third of the directors and in respect of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence rounded down will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have served on the Board the longest since their last appointment or reappointment.
Under the Current Articles every director must offer themselves for re-election every three years.
7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Ronnie Charles Miller David Louise David Ian Bell Smith Beever Makin Felwick McHoul Stock code: PFD www.
indd 55 09 03 2011 11:26:05 Number of years appointed Corporate governance report continued Q.
Has the Company adopted the UK Corporate Q.
How do we make sure our Board and its committees are Governance Codes recommendations for the annual effective?
During the year the Company discussed its policy on the reAnnually the Board carries out a performance review which election of directors following the recommendations of the code.
measures its performance and that of its committees.
It is the policy The Company is reviewing market practice in this area and intends of the Board to conduct an external Board evaluation every three to comply with the code requirements and adopt annual re-election years.
In 2009 an independent external review was conducted by with effect from the AGM 2012.
During the transitional period reBoardroom Review which involved one-to-one meetings with the election will continue to be governed by the Companys Articles.
Board and attendance at Board and committee meetings.
Does the Company offer the directors access to For 2010 the review was carried out by way of a questionnaire and independent professional advice?
the findings of this review will be presented to the Board in March 2011.
Where possible the recommendations will be incorporated A.
Yes, procedures are in place which allow directors to take into the operation and practices of the Board and its committees.
independent professional advice in the course of their duties.
In In addition, the Chairman carries out a performance review of addition, all directors have access to the advice and services of the each director on an annual basis.
Appraisals are conducted by Company Secretary.
If any director were to have a concern over any the Chairman for the Chief Executive Officer and by the Senior unresolved business issue they are entitled to require the Company Independent Director following discussions with the other nonSecretary to minute that concern.
Should they later resign over this executive directors for the Chairman.
issue the Chairman would bring these concerns to the attention of the Board.
How frequently did the Board and committees meet in 2010?
The Board held 11 scheduled meeting in the year and in addition four meetings were convened for specific business.
Meetings are usually held at the Companys head office in St Albans: however, twice a year the Board visits the Groups operating facilities to see the business in action and hold their meetings.
David Kappler retired on 30 September 2010.
3 Retired as a director on 31 January 2010.
4 No meetings have been held since their appointment to the remuneration committee on 25 November 2010.
56 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
What committees does the Board have?
What is the role of the Committee?
The Board has four committees which assist in the discharge of A.
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to: its responsibilities: l Monitor financial reporting including the annual and interim l Audit Committee: reports, preliminary results announcements and formal l Finance Committee: announcements relating to financial performance and reporting: l Nomination Committee: and l Ensure the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and l Remuneration Committee.
risk management systems: l Review and update the whistle-blowing arrangements: Each committee has its own terms of reference which are compliant l Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal with the Code and sets out its duties and responsibilities.
Copies of audit function, including the approval of any appointment or these terms of reference are available on the Companys website removal of the head of the internal audit function: www.
l Consider and make recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors including the setting of their remuneration: and l Review the external auditors independence which includes reviewing the impact of any non-audit services provided by the Groups external auditors to the Board.
Who are the Groups auditors?
Since the Company was listed on the London Stock Exchange Committee.
in July 2004  LLP PwC have been the Groups auditors.
Annually the Committee reviews the relationship The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness the Company has with PwC and for the year ended 31 December of the Groups financial reporting system and the internal control 2010 the Committee considered that the relationship was working policies and procedures for the identification, assessment well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, the and reporting of risk.
The Committee also keeps under review Committee does not consider it necessary to require PwC to tender the relationship with the auditors, including the terms of their for the Groups audit work.
engagement and fees, their independence and expertise, resources and qualification, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners The Committees terms of reference are available on the responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditors.
At the AGM 2011 the re-election of PwC as the Groups auditors will be proposed to shareholders.
Committee member Position Comments Ian McHoul Chairman Independent NED David Beever Member Independent NED David Felwick Member Senior independent director Both Ian McHoul and David Beever have recent and relevant financial experience, Ian McHoul as the Chief Financial Officer of Amec plc and David Beever as a member of the KPMG Advisory Board.
How many meetings were held during the year?
The Committee held four scheduled meetings in the year and met with the internal and external auditors twice in the year without the presence of management.
During the year the Committee was convened on two further occasions to deal with specific business.
Attendance at the scheduled meetings is shown in the table on page 56.
indd 57 09 03 2011 11:26:06 Corporate governance report continued Q.
What non-audit services were provided by the Groups auditors during the year?
There is an established policy governing the engagement of PwC for non-audit services designed to ensure that any services provided do not impair the objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy includes a fee limit for the provision of non-audit services, Finance above which a formal tender process must normally be undertaken.
During the year PwC were employed to complete a number of Committee.
projects as part of the Groups review of financing arrangements, most notably in connection with obtaining a formal credit rating and The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups financial the restructuring of the Groups swap portfolio.
Fees incurred during strategy and approving any changes to this strategy, it oversees the year in relation to this work amounted to 1.2m.
the Groups treasury operations and policies including the use of financial instruments such as interest rate swaps.
The Committee Before commissioning PwC to undertake this work the Committee also reviews the investment strategy and performance of the reviewed the proposal in detail with both management and PwC Groups pension schemes.
to assess any potential threat to their independence.
In the case of work carried out during the year it was assessed that PwC were The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
best placed to perform these additional services in view of their knowledge of the business, the time constraints in completing the work and likely cost.
The Committee is aware of the investor guidelines in respect of nonaudit fees and has agreed with management to bring the levels of non-audit fees down in subsequent years.
What key issues did the Committee discuss during David Beever Chairman Independent NED the year?
Ian McHoul Member Independent NED Ronnie Bell Member Chairman NED A.
During the year the Committee: Charles Miller Smith Member Deputy Chairman NED Robert Schofield Member Chief Executive Officer l Received regular reports from the internal audit function, Jim Smart Member Chief Financial Officer ensured it was adequately resourced, monitored its activities and Paul Leach Member Group Treasurer effectiveness, and agreed the annual audit plan: l Conducted a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function including internal control self assessments: Q.
l Considered the external auditors report for the year ended 31 A.
The Committee held four scheduled meeting in the year and December 2009 and reappointed the external auditors: additionally was convened on one further occasion for specific l Conducted an internal review of the Groups external auditors business.
Attendance at the meetings is shown in the table on which included a review of the auditors independence, page 56. objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: l Reviewed the non-audit services spend policy and approved the Q.
engagement of PwC as an adviser in relation to certain internal projects: A.
The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to: l Approved the Companys risk management policy and key business risks: and l Review and make recommendations to the Board on matters l Reviewed the Groups whistle-blowing service.
relating to the Groups capital structure, financing and pensions strategy: l Oversee the governance and activities of the Companys Treasury Committee and Treasury Risk Management Committee: l Review the investment strategy and funding levels of the Groups Ian McHoul pensions schemes: Chairman of the Audit Committee l Review the Companys financial policy and strategy: and l Monitor the Companys liquidity, covenant and going concern positions.
58 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
What key issues did the Committee discuss during Q.
A The Committee has been delegated authority by the Board to: A.
During the year the Committee: l Lead the formal, rigorous and transparent process for Board l Reviewed the Companys financial strategy including the Groups appointments including a review of the skills, experience and swap arrangements and sources of funding: knowledge of the existing directors to ensure any potential l Reviewed the investments strategy of the Groups pension shortlisted candidates will benefit the balance of the Board: schemes in order to reduce risk: l Give full consideration to succession planning taking into account l Approved amendments to the Groups Treasury Policy: and the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what l Reviewed the Groups directors and officers insurance cover.
skills and expertise would benefit the Board in the future: and l Regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board regarding changes.
What key issues did the Committee discuss during David Beever the year?
Chairman of the Finance Committee A.
During the year the Committee: l Undertook an extensive recruitment process and recommended the appointment of a new non-executive Chairman under the leadership of the Companys Senior independent director: l Approved the appointment of Charles Miller Smith as Deputy Chairman: Nomination l Approved the directors for reappointment at the AGM 2010: l Undertook an annual review of the composition and expertise of Committee.
the Board: l Undertook a selection process to appoint an additional nonThe Committee is responsible for considering the size, structure executive director to the Board:, and composition of the Board, retirement and appointment of l Reviewed the Group Executive performance appraisals: and additional and replacement directors and making appropriate l Reviewed and approved proposals for a new Group recommendations so as to maintain an appropriate balance of management structure.
skills and experience on the Board.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Ronnie Bell Chairman of the Nomination Committee Q.
Committee member Position Comments Ronnie Bell Chairman Chairman NED David Beever Member Independent NED David Felwick Member Senior independent director Ian McHoul Member Independent NED Louise Makin Member Independent NED Charles Miller Smith Member Deputy Chairman NED Q.
The Committee held two scheduled meetings in the year and additionally was convened on six further occasions for specific business.
Attendance at the meetings is shown in the table on page 56.
indd 59 09 03 2011 11:26:08 Corporate governance report continued ACCOUNTABILITY Q.
How does the Board ensure internal controls are effective?
The Board conducts an annual review of the Groups systems of internal control and their effectiveness in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee Remuneration to regularly monitor internal controls and conduct the annual review.
This review covers all material controls such as financial, operational Committee.
and compliance controls and risk management systems in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this annual The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing the report.
Processes underpinning the financial reporting systems are overall remuneration strategy for executive directors and senior managed and monitored by line and financial management.
Following managers, determining the individual remuneration packages for the Audit Committees review the Board receives a report of their the Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and senior findings for discussion and to implement the necessary actions to management and approving the design of all share incentive plans.
Data in the Groups financial statements is reconciled to the underlying financial systems.
A review of the data is undertaken to ensure that the true position and results of the Group are reflected, Q.
through compliance with approved accounting practices.
What are the aims of the internal control system?
The internal control systems principally provide an ongoing Louise Makin Chairman Independent NED process that identifies, evaluates and manages the risks that David Beever Member Independent NED are significant in relation to the fulfilment of the Groups business Ronnie Bell Member Chairman NED objectives.
The systems are designed to manage rather than to David Felwick Member Senior independent director eliminate risk and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The system also supports managements decision-making, improves the reliability of business Information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is set performance, and assists in the preparation of the Companys out in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 72. consolidated accounts.
How does the Companys internal audit programme work?
Louise Makin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A.
Each year the Audit Committee meets to discuss and approve the nature and scope of the audit programme for the year.
The Audit Committee then instructs the internal audit function to undertake the agreed schedule of audits during which the effectiveness of the controls operating within the business are reviewed.
Occasionally additional audits are added to the schedule in circumstances such as the acquisition or disposal of a business or any other significant business development.
In addition, the completion of comprehensive internal control self assessment questionnaires are required from senior business managers within each business unit.
These self assessment questionnaires are designed to ensure that any material control breakdowns are highlighted and the operation of internal controls are addressed within their respective business units.
To ensure their accuracy these assessments are tested as part of the Internal Audit Process.
The results are initially reviewed by the divisional units and then the Group Executive prior to formal review by the Audit Committee.
Further information on risk management and risk factors can be found on pages 46 to 47.
60 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF BACK.
How is the Board updated on the latest shareholder Q.
How does the Company engage with shareholders?
The primary role of the Board is to represent and promote the A.
The Board receive a detailed investor relations update at each interests of its shareholders as well as being accountable to them for Board meeting which covers amongst other things, share price the performance and activities of the Company.
movements, shareholder movements and analyst reports.
The Board believes it is very important to engage with its Q.
shareholders and does this in a number of ways through A.
The AGM usually takes place in London and is an opportunity presentations, conference calls, face-to-face meetings and the for all shareholders to ask questions and vote on the resolutions put AGM.
Following the announcement of the Companys half year forward by the Board.
At least 20 working days before the AGM and year end results presentations are made to analysts and major shareholders receive the Notice of AGM, a copy of this Report if they shareholders to update them on the progress the Company has request a copy in writing and a Form of Proxy.
made towards its goals and invite them to ask questions.
The Notice of AGM sets out the proposed resolutions and a brief Following the announcement of the Companys trading updates synopsis of each.
Shareholders are invited to either attend the AGM in and interim management statements conference calls take place person or appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf.
Voting at the AGM with analysts and major shareholders to update them on Company is by poll as this gives a more democratic outcome given that the progress.
Full reports on all shareholder presentations are available proxy votes are added to the votes cast in person.
Details of the proxy on the Groups website www.
The website also votes for, against and withheld are made available on the Companys contains all London Stock Exchange announcements released to website after the AGM.
TAKEOVER DIRECTIVE The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are also Information on the impact to the Company as required by the available to meet with shareholders during the year.
The Chairman, Takeover Directive is given in the directors report see page 53 and Deputy Chairman and Senior independent director are available forms part of this corporate governance report.
to discuss the issues and concerns of shareholders and welcome questions posed to the Board and committees.
REMUNERATION Details on remuneration are found in the remuneration report on pages 62 to 72.
Ronnie Bell Chairman Stock code: PFD www.
