Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 36 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee the Committee presents its report in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
Composition and role of the Nomination Committee The Committee meets as and when required and comprises Messrs M W Welton Chairman, J Darby, D C Lindsell, S C Lockett, M Romieu, J R W Orange, Professor D G Roberts and Ms I J Hinkley.
The Board considers the membership of the Nomination Committee to be in compliance with the Combined Code.
The Committee met twice in 2010.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
The role of the Committee includes: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
This requires an ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required at Board level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term: responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates, subject to Board approval, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: and reviewing the development and leadership potential of senior executives below Board level and ensuring that appropriate succession plans are in place for both Board and senior positions.
During 2010, following an evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the primary work of the Committee has been the process to select an additional non-executive director.
To assist in this task, the company engaged external consultants to identify appropriate candidates for the role.
The Committee proposed its candidate for appointment and, following disclosure of the candidates other significant commitments, the full Board concluded that Ms I J Hinkley be appointed to the Board.
Induction procedure The Company Secretary supports the Chairman and the Chief Executive in ensuring new directors receive appropriate induction and training.
On joining the Board, a director undergoes a structured induction programme, including the receipt of a comprehensive induction pack which includes various governance related issues.
The new director meets with each of the executive directors and senior management.
If appropriate, the new director also attends external training courses following his or her appointment which are tailored to his or her requirements.
By order of the Board M W Welton Chairman 23 March 2011
