Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 32 Audit and Risk Committee Report The Audit and Risk Committee the Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive directors of the company.
The Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
The Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the companys internal financial and operational control and risk management systems, including the results of business control reviews: overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditors, including making recommendations as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, monitoring their independence and developing and implementing policy governing any engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit and Risk Committee The Committee comprises only non-executive directors.
Its members are Messrs D C Lindsell Chairman, J Darby, J R W Orange and M Romieu.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Mr D C Lindsell is a chartered accountant with expertise in accounting and auditing.
The Board considers all members of the Committee to have the relevant commercial and financial experience to assess effectively the complex financial reporting, risk and internal control issues relevant to the company.
The Committee may engage the services of external advisers as it deems necessary in the furtherance of its duties, at the companys expense.
No external advisers materially assisted the Committee during the year.
Meetings The Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
Minutes of Committee meetings are distributed to all Board members and the Committee Chairman reports to the Board on each Committee meeting and matters arising from it.
The Committee is satisfied that it receives sufficient, reliable and timely information from management in order to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Overview of the actions taken by the Audit and Risk Committee to discharge its duties The Committee met four times in 2010.
In January it considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full-year results in March.
In March it reviewed the full-year results, the Annual Report and Financial Statements and its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls to enable the Board to make its statement on internal control in the Corporate Governance Report.
In July it considered the accounting and reporting issues relating to the half-year results, and in August it reviewed the half-year results.
At each meeting other than March, the results of the groups internal control reviews performed since the previous meeting, including any recommendations for improvements, were reported to and discussed by the Committee.
More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were discharged as follows: the Committee reviewed the risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing the group and how these risks were being managed.
It also reviewed the findings from financial and operating controls reviews carried out during the year, together with progress in implementing any required improvements.
Additionally it has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and disclosures made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Controls reviews are carried out by third party firms as well as by Premier staff with the necessary expertise: the Committee reviewed the findings from the external auditors audit of the 2009 financial statements and their 2010 halfyearly review, and the audit plan for the 2010 audit.
The fee proposals for the audit and half-yearly review were considered and agreed, and the Committee reviewed the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity: the Committee met with the Finance Director and external auditors as part of the half-yearly and final financial statements review and approval process.
The Committee considered assumptions about the future and other sources of estimation uncertainty, as well as the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or judgemental matters that may have a significant effect on amounts in the financial statements: the performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees: and the Committee met twice in the absence of management with the external auditors in March and in July and no matters of significance were drawn to the Committees attention at either of these meetings.
Premier Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements 33 Internal audit The Committee also carried out its annual review into whether it is appropriate for the company to establish an internal audit function.
The Board places great emphasis on the importance of risk management and control at all operating levels in the business and is confident that this culture is in place.
The Committee took account of the fact that the company obtains independent confirmation of its internal financial controls from a variety of sources: these include joint venture and government audits and the use of specific reviews using third party specialists.
As a result, the Committee concluded that there was no need for a dedicated internal financial audit resource.
As reported last year, the Committee took the decision to appoint an Operational Audit and Risk Control Manager, with the prime responsibility for managing the operational audit and control review process.
This appointment was made in April 2010 with one of our senior managers being appointed to this role under the title of Group Audit and Risk Control Manager.
The main focus of the role in 2010 has been to review and begin the process of updating our audit and risk assurance policy and procedures.
External auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte was initially appointed external auditor of the company in 2004.
The Committee regularly reviews the issue of the independence of the external auditors.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditors and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditors, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditors against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit partner and other key members of the audit team.
The Committee has a policy on the use of auditors in a non-audit capacity which is aimed at ensuring their continued independence.
The use of the external auditors for services relating to accounting systems or financial statements is not permitted, as are various other services that could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards.
The Committee believes that there is non-audit work such as certain assurance and advisory services that may be best performed by the auditors as a result of their unique knowledge of the company.
Any material non-audit work of this nature requires approval by the Committee.
The policy and overall fees paid to our auditors are also reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the external auditor to confirm that in providing non-audit services, it complies with the Ethical Standards of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2010.
The Committee reviews the expertise, performance and effectiveness of the auditors.
On the basis of the reviews carried out, the Committee recommended to the Board that it should propose the reappointment of Deloitte as the external auditor of the company.
By order of the Board D C Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 23 March 2011
