Corporate governance statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate During the period the Board held ten scheduled Board meetings, governance and demonstrates this by being fully compliant with the attendance of which was as follows: all of the provisions set out in section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and chapter 7 of the Director Board meetings Disclosure and Transparency Rules the DTR throughout the Giles Thorley 9 10 period from 22 August 2009 to 21 August 2010.
Phil Dutton 10 10 Mike Tye 10 10 This report, together with the Directors report which includes Roger Whiteside 9 10 information as required by section 7.2.
6 of the DTR, as permitted Peter Cawdron 10 10 by section 7.2.
9 of the DTR and the Report on Directors 1 Fritz Ternofsky 7 7 remuneration, provides an overview of how the Group has 2 applied the principles of the Code throughout the period.
Mike Foster 6 7 It details the work and activities undertaken by the Companys Ian Fraser 10 10 relevant Committees and sets out the key features of the Mark Pain 10 10 Companys governance structure.
Ian Wilson 7 10 Tony Rice 6 10 Following the introduction of the UK Corporate Governance 1 Fritz Ternofsky retired on 31 March 2010.
Code, which replaces the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate 2 Mike Foster retired on 31 March 2010.
Governance for the Companys 2011 financial year, the Company is in the process of reviewing its corporate governance In addition to their attendance at Board and Committee procedures and already complies with the majority of the meetings, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors met provisions of the new Code.
We aim to be compliant with all without the Executive Directors to discuss the operational provisions by 1 January 2011 and for example, plan to introduce performance of the Group as a whole.
During the period, the annual election of all Directors for our August 2011 year end.
Non-executive Directors have also had the opportunity to meet without the Chairman to review his performance in line with the The Board Companys objectives.
The Board is effective and is collectively responsible for the success of the Company The Company actively encourages its Non-executive Directors to: The work of the Board is structured around scheduled Board challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the meetings which are linked to key events in the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Executive Directors: corporate calendar, with additional meetings and conference scrutinise and challenge performance: calls convened to consider matters which are time-critical or satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information which require further discussion.
and that financial controls are robust and defensible: and ensure that appropriate remuneration and succession planning Together the Board is collectively responsible to the Companys arrangements are in place in relation to the Executive Directors shareholders for the Groups performance and sets the strategic and other senior members of the management team.
aims and objectives of the Group to fulfil this responsibility.
The Board determines the Companys key policies, agrees on If not satisfied with the outcome, the Non-executive Directors performance criteria and delegates to senior management their can record their concerns in the Companys board minutes until planning and implementation.
Overall, the Board ensures that all further action is taken to remedy their concern.
necessary resources are in place in order for the Company to meet its objectives and that all decisions are taken objectively and The role and responsibility of the Chairman and Chief Executive in the interest of the Company and its shareholders.
is clear and separate Whilst the Board has delegated the normal operational There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman management of the Company to the Executive Directors and and Chief Executive Officer which has been formally documented other senior management, it retains a schedule of matters which and approved by the Board.
are dealt with by the Board.
These include, amongst others, strategy and management, structure and capital, financial As Chairman of the Board, Peter Cawdron is responsible for: reporting and controls, significant contracts, material acquisitions and disposals, investments and capital projects.
the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda: ensuring that, through the Company Secretary, the members of the Board receive clear, accurate and timely information: arranging the regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: and facilitating the effective contribution of Non-executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
35 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Chief Executive Officer, supported by the Finance Director During the period the Nominations Committee held three and two Managing Directors, is responsible for: scheduled committee meetings, the attendance of which was as follows: developing strategic operating plans: preparing annual budgets and medium term projections for Committee member Meetings attended 1 the Group and closely monitoring performance against plans Mike Foster Chairman 2 2 and budgets: 2 Ian Wilson Chairman 3 3 ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and 3 Tony Rice 1 1 overseeing the day-to-day management of the Group.
Peter Cawdron 3 3 1 The composition of the Board is balanced and not dominated Mike Foster retired on 31 March 2010.
2 Ian Wilson was appointed Chairman on 31 March 2010. by any individual 3 Tony Rice was appointed to the Nominations Committee on 31 March 2010.
The Board includes a strong presence of both Executive and Senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Non-executive Directors so that no individual or small group can the Company Secretary, are invited to attend for part or all of dominate proceedings or the Boards decision making.
the Board has reduced in size during the period, following the retirement of Fritz Ternofsky and Mike Foster, it is considered The main purpose of the Nominations Committee is to review the that the Board is of sufficient size such that the balance of skills structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience is appropriate to the size of the business.
and experience of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
The Board has assessed the independence of its Non-executive Other areas of responsibilities include: Directors against the provisions of the Code and has concluded that, under the definitions used, Ian Fraser, Mark Pain, Ian Wilson consideration of the Companys succession plans which are and Tony Rice are independent in character and judgement in place for Board members and the senior management team: and have no relationships that are likely to affect, or could the identification, evaluation and nomination of candidates appear to affect, their judgement as Directors of the Company.
to fill Board vacancies: Peter Cawdron was also considered independent upon his reviewing Directors conflicts of interests and making appointment to Chairman.
recommendations to the Board to authorise such conflicts where applicable: During the period, following the retirement of two Non-executive regularly reviewing the membership of the Companys Directors, exactly half of the remaining Board, excluding the Committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed upon Chairman, comprised four Non-executive Directors who are certain individuals: and determined by the Board to be independent.
making recommendations in respect of Board re-election by shareholders.
Following the retirement of Fritz Ternofsky on 31 March 2010, Tony Rice was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive On appointment, as the Companys Non-executive Directors Director.
As Senior Independent Non-executive Director, may serve on a number of other boards, it is recommended that Tony Rice is responsible for: they set aside enough time to demonstrate satisfactory time commitment to their new role.
Details of other commitments supporting the Chairman: and potential conflicts of interest are disclosed to the leading the other Non-executive Directors in the review Nominations Committee and approved before appointment.
of the Chairman: and The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive monitoring the division of responsibilities between Chairman Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered and Chief Executive Officer.
office during normal business hours and from 15 minutes prior to and during the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM.
He is also available to shareholders to express any concerns which the Executive Directors have failed to resolve in When considering new appointments the Company has a formal, a satisfactory manner.
rigorous and transparent procedure which is based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nominations Committee evaluates Appointments to the Board are formal, rigorous and the balance of skill, knowledge and experience required and transparent prepares a description of the role and capabilities required.
Before any appointment is made the Committee obtains details of any During the period, following the retirement of Mike Foster, the interests the candidate may have which conflict or may conflict composition of the Nominations Committee has been reviewed with the interests of the Company and considers whether, by the Company to ensure that the majority of the Committees despite any such conflict, there are nevertheless grounds for members remained independent.
The review resulted in recommending the candidate for appointment.
This procedure Tony Rice becoming a member of the Committee and Ian Wilson was utilised during the period in the appointment of Ian Dyson being appointed Chairman.
Peter Cawdron continues to serve as as Chief Executive Officer.
In conjunction with an external the third member making the Committee quorate in accordance recruitment agency, a job specification was drawn up and with its terms of reference which can be found on the Companys interviews undertaken by the Nominations Committee and other website www.
com The Board is provided with timely information and professional The Board undertakes formal and rigorous performance development opportunities evaluation The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, ensures During the period the Board undertook a formal evaluation that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information.
of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual In preparation for every Board meeting, each Director receives Directors.
The Board considered that the best means of documentation including a detailed report on current trading and effectively undertaking this process was a combination of self full papers on matters where the Board will be required to make and peer assessment.
This process was led by the Chairman a decision or give its approval.
These matters are discussed during except in relation to his own performance as Chairman, which the Board meeting, with the Chief Executive Officer, Finance was led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
Director and two Managing Directors giving an overview of how The results of the review were discussed by the Board and the Group is performing against expectations.
In addition, the an appropriate action plan was agreed.
Board receives presentations from other members of senior management and external advisors to aid their understanding All directors are submitted for re-election at regular intervals when applicable.
Under the Companys Articles of Association all new directors On appointment, the Chairman together with the Company are required to stand for election at the first AGM after their Secretary ensures that each Director receives a tailored induction appointment.
Following his appointment Ian Dyson will stand programme that includes: for election at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
The Articles also require all Directors who held office at the time of the individual time with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer two preceding AGMs, and who did not retire at either of them, and other members of the Board: to stand for re-election.
Accordingly, Phil Dutton, Mark Pain, meetings with the Companys external advisers, substantial Tony Rice and Ian Wilson will stand for re-election at the shareholders, brokers and lawyers: forthcoming AGM.
The biographical details of each director an internal induction course which introduces the Group, can be found on page 31 of this report.
its divisions and its employees: visits to the Groups leased and managed pubs and those Remuneration of competitors: and The remuneration procedure is formal and transparent and external training courses, if required.
levels of remuneration are appropriate On a biannual basis each Board Director undergoes a personal During the period, following the retirement of Fritz Ternofsky development review to set their goals and assess their progress and Mike Foster, the composition of the Remuneration during the year.
Ongoing training and proactive coaching is Committee has also been reviewed by the Company to ensure provided by the Company to develop, support and update the that the Committee was quorate and all members were knowledge and skills of its Board, including days out in trade, independent Non-executive Directors.
The review resulted in meeting the senior leadership team, internal and external courses Ian Fraser and Mark Pain becoming members of the Committee and continual dialogue with peers and colleagues.
Directors and Tony Rice being appointed Chairman.
The terms of reference are expected to take responsibility for their own individual of the Committee can be found on the Companys website developmental needs in conjunction with the Company Secretary www.
and Director of Human Resources.
During the period the Remuneration Committee held three All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the scheduled committee meetings the attendance of which was Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for: as follows: advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance Committee member Meetings attended 1 matters: Fritz Ternofsky Chairman 3 3 providing assistance and information on corporate 1 Mike Foster 3 3 administration and legal matters: 2 Tony Rice Chairman 3 3 ensuring that good information flows within the Board, its 3 Ian Fraser 0 0 Committees and between the Non-executive Directors and 3 Mark Pain 0 0 senior management: and 1 ensuring that board procedures are followed and that all Fritz Ternofsky and Mike Foster retired on 31 March 2010.
2 applicable legislation and regulations are complied with.
Tony Rice was appointed Chairman on 31 March 2010.
3 Ian Fraser and Mark Pain were appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 31 March 2010.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board and during the period, Neil Preston Senior management, including the Chairman, Chief Executive resigned as Company Secretary and was replaced by Officer and Company Secretary are invited to attend for part Ed Bashforth.
37 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance Governance Corporate governance statement continued The main purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to: The Board has established, with a view to providing effective internal control, the following key procedures: recommend to the Board the Companys policy for the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, regular Board meetings to consider the schedule of matters Executive Directors and other members of senior management: reserved for the Board: take into account factors which it deems necessary with the a formal annual review of corporate strategy, including regular objective of ensuring that appropriate incentives are provided reviews of risks facing the business: to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a Company Risk Register which identifies the key risks facing a fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions the business and how these risks are monitored and managed to the success of the Company: on an ongoing basis: review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by an established organisational structure with clearly defined the Board and shareholders and determine each year whether lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: awards will be made and when: documented and enforced policies and procedures: determine the overall amount of share awards and the appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their individual award levels to Executive Directors and senior allotted responsibilities: management: comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, determine targets for any performance-related payments: and reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance determine the policy for and scope of the pension monitored against them and explanations obtained for arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and material variances: compensation commitments in relation to Executive Directors a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board and senior management.
Post investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board: The levels of remuneration are reviewed for all Executive and an internal audit function which performs continuous Non-executive Directors by the Remuneration Committee at least assessments of the quality and effectiveness of risk annually to ensure that they are sufficient to attract, retain and management and the internal control environment: motivate the Directors and are linked to both the Companys an Audit Committee of the Board, comprising independent and their individual performance.
Further details of the work of Non-executive Directors, which considers significant financial the Remuneration Committee and the levels of remuneration control matters as appropriate: paid to the Board during the period, including details of how regular reporting by the Audit Committee to the Board of remuneration levels are set and external benchmarking Directors regarding internal audit, control updates and procedures, can be found in the Report on Directors of any changes to accounting policies and of any accounting remuneration which can be found on pages 40 to 51. and legal developments: documented fraud and whistle blowing policies and Accountability and audit procedures, regular review of current whistle blowing There is a sound system of internal control regulations, and reporting of any whistle blowing incidents to the Audit Committee: The Audit Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the a regular review of treasury policies and activities by the Companys system of internal controls to ensure the effectiveness Audit Committee: of those controls in order to safeguard shareholders interests an established programme of management and staff and Company assets and guarantee that robust financial development and succession planning: and reporting processes are in place, and reports to the Board that formal financial reporting processes for preparation of the they have done so.
Such systems, including controls for financial, consolidated accounts.
operational, compliance and risk management matters, are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Using this monitoring process, the Audit Committee, on behalf achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
However, it should of the Board, has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the be recognised that these systems can only provide reasonable system of internal control during the period and has considered and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the material developments which have taken place since the year end.
The Board are satisfied that the review demonstrated that To enable the Company to identify, evaluate and manage the the Companys internal control system is effective.
significant risks of the Group, the Company has an ongoing process, in the form of a risk management framework the The audit procedure is formal and transparent Companys Risk Register, which is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board.
The processes are in accordance with During the period, following the retirement of Fritz Ternofsky, the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and have been in place Ian Wilson became a member of the Audit Committee to ensure for the whole of the period and up to the date of this report.
that the Committee remained quorate.
The Committee is made up of three independent Non-executive Directors, at least one of which has recent and relevant financial experience.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
com During the period the Audit Committee held five scheduled During the period and to the date of this report, the work committee meetings, the attendance of which was as follows: of the Audit Committee has included consideration of the following matters: Committee member Meetings attended the financial statements in the 2009 and 2010 Annual Report Ian Fraser Chairman 5 5 and Financial Statements and the interim report issued in 1 3 3 Fritz Ternofsky April 2010.
As part of this review, the Committee received 2 1 2 Ian Wilson reports from the external auditors in relation to the 2009 Mark Pain 5 5 and 2010 final audits and the 2010 interim review: the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: 1 Fritz Ternofsky retired on 31 March 2010.
2 the evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: Ian Wilson was appointed to the Audit Committee on 31 March 2010. the recommendation of the appointment of KPMG Audit plc as the external auditors and the approval of the 2010 external Senior management, including the Finance Director, Company audit plan and fee proposal: Secretary and internal and external auditors are invited to attend the progress of the internal audit programme and matters for part or all of each meeting.
The internal and external auditors arising and the effectiveness and workload of the internal have unrestricted access to the Audit Committee and its audit department and the adequacy of available resource: Chairman, and the Head of Risk Assurance meets at least annually the maintenance of an effective system of internal financial with the Chairman without the presence of management.
control: and the Companys whistle blowing procedures including reviewing The Audit Committee is responsible for: any whistle blowing or fraud incidents which occurred.
monitoring and reviewing matters relating to the effectiveness Relations and shareholders of the Companys internal controls: There is a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders conducting a formal annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment on behalf of the Board: Communications with shareholders are given high priority to the Companys financial reporting process, ensuring a balanced ensure that a balanced and understandable assessment of the and understandable assessment of the Companys position Groups position and prospects is given.
The Company aims and prospects are reported: to provide as much information as is commercially sensible to the scope and results of internal audit: both existing and potential investors, recognising that the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts: transparency is the best way to develop understanding of the reviewing the effectiveness of internal and external audit: and Groups strategy, performance and growth potential.
the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The Company encourages two-way communication with both One of the primary purposes of the Audit Committee is to make its institutional and private shareholders and aims to provide a recommendation on the appointment or re-appointment a timely response to all enquiries.
There is a regular dialogue of the external auditors.
During the period, the Audit Committee with institutional shareholders as well as presentations after the reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external Companys preliminary announcement of the year end and auditors and evaluated their overall performance and concluded interim results.
The Chairman also writes to the top ten major that the external audit be put out to tender.
Three of the shareholders on an annual basis inviting them to correspond with Big Four audit firms were invited to tender.
It was finally the Non-executive Directors if they so wish.
decided, on the merits of the tender, that the external audit be awarded to KPMG Audit plc.
The AGM is used to communicate with shareholders To maintain the independence of the external auditors, the The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional Board has determined a policy detailing what non-audit services and private shareholders and welcomes their participation.
can be provided by the Companys external auditors.
Under this The Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, policy, work of a consultancy nature is not offered to the external Remuneration and Nominations Committees and the Senior auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added Independent Non-executive Director attend the AGM to answer benefits to the Company.
The Audit Committee monitors the any relevant questions.
All members of the Board are available level of non-audit fees paid to the external auditors and details to meet with major shareholders if requested.
of these fees can be found in note 3 of the Notes to the financial statements.
39 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Governance
