Directors Report Governance Corporate governance report The Board is committed to promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and believes that strong governance is key to delivering value to all stakeholders, maintaining investor confidence and managing change.
This section of the Annual Report, together with the Report of the Composition of the Board Remuneration Committee on pages 36 to 41, describes how QinetiQ The Board currently has ten members: the Non-executive Chairman: has promoted strong governance throughout the Group by applying seven other Non-executive Directors: and two Executive Directors, the principles of the UK Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code namely the CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO : with the on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Board considers objective of achieving a balance of Executive and Non-executive that QinetiQ has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code Directors.
throughout the last financial year, except that the Combined Code recommends that a companys chairman should be independent Executive and Non-executive Board composition on appointment and that its Chief Executive Officer CEO should not become chairman of the same company.
Sir John Chisholm, the Chairman of the Group until February 2010, was not regarded as 20% independent under the Combined Code as he was formerly QinetiQs CEO: the Board gave the reasons for this non-compliance both in the 10 Board prospectus published as part of the Companys Initial Public Offering Directors IPO in 2006 and in subsequent Annual Reports.
80% Executive Directors The Board governance, processes and systems Non-executive Directors Highlights Conducted a global search culminating in the appointment Mark Elliott has been the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ since of a new Chairman 1 March 2010 following Sir John Chisholm stepping down from this Managed the process of appointing a new Chief Executive Officer role.
Mr Elliott joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on Created a new Security Committee and conducted a review of the 1 June 2009.
During the year the Board also welcomed David Langstaff, composition of the Board Committees who joined as a Non-executive Director on 5 August 2009, Leo Quinn, who joined as QinetiQs Chief Executive Officer on 16 November Appointed Sir Robert Nelson to conduct an independent 2009 and Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, who joined the Board investigation into the conclusions and recommendations made as a Non-executive Director on 10 April 2010.
Mr Quinn replaced in the Haddon-Cave report Graham Love, who ceased to be CEO on 31 October 2009.
The Board Created a revised risk register and introduced clear processes would like to express its thanks to Sir John Chisholm, Graham Love in relation to oversight and management of risk.
and Dr Peter Fellner, all of whom stepped down during the year, for their dedication and valuable contributions during their years Board objectives of service.
Provide support to the new Chief Executive Officer to ensure The Board considers its overall size and composition to be the Groups success appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of Assist in the development of a new strategic direction for the character and integrity of all the Directors and the experience and Groups business skills which they bring to their duties, which prevents any individual Remain focused on succession planning for the Board or small group from dominating the Boards decision-making.
Deliver the highest standards of health and safety management across the Group The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual members, particularly in the areas of UK US defence and security, Support the Chief Executive Officer in ensuring that the the commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate key recommendations of Sir Robert Nelsons review of the finance, mergers and acquisitions and risk management, have Haddon-Cave report, published in November 2009, are been fundamental in the pursuit of QinetiQs strategic initiatives implemented across the Group as described in the Chief Executive Officers Review section of Continue to promote the highest standards of corporate this Annual Report in the past year.
In addition, the quoted governance and rigorous oversight of Group performance company experience available to members of the Board in a and risk management.
variety of industry sectors and international markets has also been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to penetrate new markets and geographic territories.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Roles and responsibilities The evaluation process revealed that the operation of the Board The Board is responsible for managing the Groups operations and, was conducted in an open and transparent manner, with the Board in this capacity, determines the Groups strategic and investment possessing an appropriate range of skills which were well matched policies.
The Board also monitors the performance of the Groups to QinetiQs business and having devoted increased attention to senior management team and organises its business to have regular strategic planning, succession and risk management in the year.
interaction with key members of the Group, including those based in As a result of the evaluation exercise, the Board agreed to maintain North America.
The Directors are responsible for the management of its focus on these key issues in the coming year.
the business of the Group and their powers are subject to the Articles of Association and any applicable legislation and regulation.
As a separate exercise, the Chairman held various meetings with the Non-executive Directors in the last financial year, without the Executive Directors present, in order to review both the operation Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Board and the performance of the Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are separate, with their responsibilities In addition, the Executive Directors were appraised as part of having been clearly articulated by the Board in writing.
The Chairman, the annual salary review process, which was overseen by the Mark Elliott, is responsible for the effective operation of the Board Remuneration Committee.
and ensures that all Directors are enabled and encouraged to play their full part in Board activities.
The CEO, Leo Quinn, is responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the profitable operation Directors induction, on-going training and information and development of the Group consistent with enhancing long-term All newly-appointed Directors participate in an induction stakeholder value, which includes the day-to-day management of the programme, which is tailored to meet their specific needs in relation Group, formulating, communicating and executing Group strategy, to information on the Group.
This induction programme includes and the implementation of Board policies.
an induction pack, which is refreshed to ensure it contains the most up-to-date information available on the Group.
Senior Independent Director All Directors are encouraged to visit QinetiQs principal sites and The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Sir David Lees.
to meet a wide cross-section of the employee base.
During the Sir David is also Deputy Chairman of the Board and serves as an last financial year, the Board held one of its meetings at QinetiQs additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel that facility in McLean, Virginia and one at QinetiQs facilities in Waltham, their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels.
Massachusetts, which allowed members of the Board to better Sir David is, furthermore, available to fellow Non-executive Directors, appreciate the operational dynamics and technical offerings of the either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss matters QNA business.
The Board also held one of its meetings at QinetiQs of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, the Farnborough site.
Executive Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
As part of the corporate planning process, the Board has the Independence of Non-executive Directors opportunity to question the sector heads and the Executive Directors Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers in relation to the formulation of the corporate plan at sector level Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Noreen Doyle, Mark Elliott, and the impact of these plans on the Group strategy as a whole.
Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani, David Langstaff, Sir David Lees The Non-executive Directors also have an opportunity to meet and Nick Luff to be independent of QinetiQs executive management with other employees within the Group including, but not limited and free from any business or other relationships that could materially to, other members of the senior management team at lunchtime interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Of the evening events, which are scheduled to coincide with Board meetings.
remaining Non-executive Directors, the Board considers that Colin Balmer is not independent for Combined Code purposes, on the basis Training is also available to the Board on key business issues or that he was until MOD sold its entire ordinary shareholding in the developments in policy, regulation or legislation on an as needed Company on 9 September 2008 the MODs nominated director.
Based on the above, the Board considers that over half of its members Each of the Directors has access to the services of the Company were independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last Secretary, and there is also an agreed procedure for the Directors financial year.
to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
Performance of the Board Re-election of Directors During the financial year ended 31 March 2010, QinetiQ conducted Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors its fourth evaluation of the performance of the Board and its of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association and Committees since IPO.
Given that the Group had undertaken changes to these articles must be submitted to shareholders for an externally facilitated evaluation in the previous financial year, approval.
According to the Articles of Association, all Directors and the number of Board changes occurring in year, the 2009 10 are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following evaluation exercise was an internal exercise led by Sir John Chisholm.
their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no The Chairman used the core conclusions arising out of the prior years more than three years.
It is the Companys practice for each serving exercise as a reference point for a series of questions focused on best member of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election practice areas of corporate governance, which was supplemented by at each Annual General Meeting.
a number of meetings held individually with each of the Directors at which the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Board members was discussed.
Sir David Lees, in his capacity as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, also met with individual members of the Board to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Directors Report Governance Corporate governance report continued Board meetings and attendance Operation of the Board The Board has regular scheduled meetings.
Nine scheduled Board The Board receives written reports from the CEO and CFO each meetings were held in the last financial year.
Members of the month, together with a separate report on investor relations which Board were also invited to attend a dinner on the occasion of each is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers and a report scheduled Board meeting, to assist in the process of relationship produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and regulatory building and to ensure that key strategic initiatives were thoroughly issues affecting the Group.
The Board also considers reports from the discussed.
The Board held two of its scheduled meetings in the US in Chairs of the Committees of the Board at the next scheduled Board the last financial year, to give members of the Board an opportunity meeting, following the date on which each Committee meeting to meet with senior management in QNA.
One Board meeting was was held.
held at QinetiQs Farnborough site to provide members of the Board with greater opportunity to understand the operational dynamics of The CEOs monthly report addresses the key strategic initiatives the UK business at first hand.
which have had an impact on the Group since the previous meeting of the Board, and focuses, in particular, on the progress of each The following table shows the number of Board meetings held of the Sectors.
Other key areas of focus include health, safety during the year and the attendance by individual directors.
and environmental matters, employee and organisational issues, corporate responsibility, the status of key account management customer relationship initiatives, the pipeline of potential bids, Attendance at Board meetings April 2009 to March 2010 acquisitions, disposals and investments, and the post-acquisition Members performance of recently acquired businesses.
The Board also receives Board meetings held in 2009 2010 updates from the CEOs key functional reports on an as needed basis, on issues such as Human Resources, Treasury, Corporate Colin Balmer 9 9 Responsibility, Real Estate and Pensions, throughout the financial 1 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 0 0 year.
Key issues considered by the Board in the past year included 2 succession planning, which culminated in the appointment of a Sir John Chisholm 8 8 new Chairman and CEO in year, strategy in particular the strategic Noreen Doyle 8 9 response to the operational challenges faced by the QNA and EMEA 3 Mark Elliott 7 7 businesses, as described in the Business Review and the Companys response to the key findings of the Haddon-Cave report into the 4 Dr Peter Fellner 2 3 Nimrod aircraft which crashed in Afghanistan in 2006.
Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani 9 9 The CFOs monthly report addresses the financial performance and 5 David Langstaff 7 7 outlook of the Group and each of the sectors, both on a monthly and Sir David Lees 9 9 year-to-date basis, with the key performance indicators analysed by 6 the Board being those identified on pages 16 and 17.
The Group Risk Graham Love 5 5 Register also forms part of the CFOs report on a quarterly basis and Nick Luff 9 9 tracks the Principal risks and uncertainties identified on pages 18 to 21 of the Business Review.
The CFO also reports on a monthly basis, David Mellors 9 9 as part of his investor relations report, on the key issues raised by 7 Leo Quinn 4 4 shareholders, potential investors and other important stakeholders 1 on QinetiQs performance and key strategic initiatives.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent was appointed to the Board on 10 April 2010.
2 Sir John Chisholm resigned from the Board on 28 February 2010.
3 Mark Elliott was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2009.
Conflicts of interest 4 Dr Peter Fellner resigned from the Board on 4 August 2009.
The Company has established a process requiring Directors to 5 David Langstaff was appointed to the Board on 5 August 2009. disclose proposed outside business interests before they are entered 6 Graham Love ceased to be a Director on 31 October 2009.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict, or potential Leo Quinn was appointed to the Board on 16 November 2009. conflict, of interest and any impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external interests is carried out by the Board.
Matters reserved to the Board The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, Directors responsibilities which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the Board Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing and its Committees during the annual business cycle, the level of the Groups financial statements and the auditors responsibilities for delegated authorities both financial and non-financial available to reporting on those statements are set out on pages 44 and 45. both Executive Directors and other layers of management within the business, and QinetiQs Business Ethics, Risk Management and Health, Safety and Environmental processes.
The Board devotes one entire Other Directors information meeting each year to consider strategy and planning issues which Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the Nonhave an impact on the Group, from which the five-year corporate plan executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Report is generated.
The Board also has a clearly articulated set of matters of the Remuneration Committee.
Copies of Directors service contracts which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, which include and letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the reviewing the annual budgets, raising indebtedness, granting security Companys AGM.
over Group assets, approving Group strategy and the corporate plan, approval of the annual and interim report and accounts, approval of significant investment, bid, acquisition and divestment transactions, approval of Human Resources policies including pension arrangements, reviewing material litigation and monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including risk management.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Security Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Nick Luff Noreen Doyle Sir David Lees Sir David Lees Colin Balmer Monitors the Groups Sets remuneration Ensures that the Monitors the Groups Considers matters integrity in financial and incentives for composition of adherence to the MOD of a UK national reporting and reviews Executive Directors: the Board and Compliance Regime security dimension the effectiveness of approves and monitors Committees has and those areas of risk which have an impact the risk management remuneration and the optimum balance where the principal on the business framework.
incentives for the of skills, knowledge impact on the Group it has not met since Group.
Other management committees Audit Committee role and focus Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups Each member of the Audit Committee is an independent Nonactivities, with the exception of QinetiQs North American executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by Nick Luff, who has operations which are managed through the Proxy Board, as been a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England described in the section below headed Management and control of and Wales since 1991.
The Board considers him to have recent and US subsidiaries, is conducted through the QinetiQ Executive Team relevant financial experience, given his former roles as CFO of P&O QET.
The QET comprises the Group CEO, Group CFO, Functional and P&O Princess Cruises and his current position as Finance Director Directors and the Managing Directors of each of the Sectors.
The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least QET meets on a monthly basis, and receives weekly updates on key four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2010, operational issues by way of pre-scheduled conference calls.
The the Committee met on five occasions.
The external auditor has the activities of the QET are supplemented by the Proxy Board and the right to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
Executive Management Team in QNA.
Separate committees have During the past financial year, the Committee met with QinetiQs also been established to review Group strategy in the areas external auditor on two separate occasions, without Executive of Technology, Communications and Corporate Responsibility, Directors present, to discuss the audit process.
The Committee each of which meets on a periodic basis.
Chairman also met with the Group Head of Internal Audit on the same basis.
Board committees The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal The Board has established five principal committees: the Audit Audit, the Internal Audit Manager, and a representative of the Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations external auditor, normally attend Audit Committee meetings, Committee, the Compliance Committee and the Security Committee.
Each operates within written terms of reference approved by the Board, details of which are set out in the Investor Relations section During the last financial year, consideration of the audit process of QinetiQs website www.
Each Chairman of a Board for the full-year and interim results represented the principal areas Committee reports on the key issues discussed, and decisions taken, of focus for the Audit Committee.
These included detailed reviews at the next meeting of the Board following the Committee meeting of asset valuation and impairment testing.
The Committee also in question.
Details of each of these Committees are summarised assessed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, through below, along with details of Committee members attendance at a balanced scorecard review process designed to measure the Committee meetings.
achievement of Internal Audit objectives, which resulted in the approval of a detailed 12-month work programme for the function.
Audit Committee Members In the context of the Groups North American business, the Committee undertook two in-depth reviews of the internal Committee meetings held in 2009 2010 controls environment across QNA, which included an assessment Nick Luff Chairman 5 5 of the effectiveness of the financial controls in place across the US business, contract management activity and the resourcing of the Noreen Doyle 5 5 QNA Internal Audit team.
As part of its review of internal controls, 1 Mark Elliott 1 2 the Committee focused in particular on those matters which had 2 failed to achieve at least a satisfactory audit rating in the year, and Dr Peter Fellner 2 2 the management plans to address the issues raised by the Internal 3 David Langstaff 3 3 Audit function, which benefited from the introduction of a more 4 Sir David Lees 0 0 comprehensive self certification process across the EMEA and QNA businesses in year.
The Committee also reviewed the activities of the 1 Appointed on 5 August 2009 and ceased to be a member on 1 March 2010.
2 pensions, tax, insurance and treasury functions in detail, as well as Resigned on 4 August 2009.
3 Appointed on 5 August 2009. overseeing the level of KPMGs audit fees.
The Committee confirms 4 Appointed on 28 April 2010. its view that it has received sufficient reliable and timely information from management in the last financial year to enable it to fulfil Highlights its responsibilities.
Introduction of an updated more comprehensive self-certification tool Increased focus on QNA internal control activity.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Directors Report Governance Corporate governance report continued In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Remuneration Committee role and focus Committee ensures that any other advisory consulting services The Committee meets as necessary although normally not less than provided by the auditor does not conflict with their statutory three times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2010, audit responsibilities and are conducted through entirely separate the Remuneration Committee met on six occasions.
Although not working teams: such advisory and or consulting services generally members of the Committee, the former Group Chairman, the Group only cover regulatory reporting, tax and mergers and acquisitions CEO, the Group HR Director and the Group Head of Reward normally work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor require attended Committee meetings, together with representatives of the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit Committee the Committees external consultants, Deloitte & Touche LLP, as before being initiated, with any such services exceeding 50,000 necessary.
Executive Directors are not present when their own in value requiring the consent of the Audit Committee as a remuneration is being discussed.
Further information on the whole.
In the last financial year, the only non-audit activity activities of the Remuneration Committee during the last financial conducted by KPMG on behalf of QinetiQ which exceeded this year are set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on 50,000 threshold, related to the provision of services to support pages 36 to 41. detailed strategic planning work being conducted across the EMEA business, as well as taxation advisory services to the Group, Nominations Committee neither of which the Committee concluded created any conflict Members of interest issues which might compromise the independence of Committee meetings held in 2009 2010 KPMG audit work.
Sir David Lees Chairman 3 3 It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be Colin Balmer 3 3 appointed into a senior position within the QinetiQ Group 1 without the prior approval of the CFO.
The cost of non-audit Sir John Chisholm 2 3 work undertaken by the auditor was reviewed by the Committee 2 Noreen Doyle 2 3 on several occasions during the last financial year: this process 3 enables the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that Mark Elliott 1 1 there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined 4 Dr Peter Fellner 2 2 through the award of such work.
2 Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani 2 3 KPMG has been the Companys auditor since 2003.
The members 3 David Langstaff 1 1 of the Audit Committee have declared themselves satisfied with the 2 Nick Luff 3 3 performance of KPMG as the Companys auditor in the last financial year.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was undertaken during 5 Leo Quinn 0 0 2008: it is anticipated that he will continue in this role for a maximum 1 Resigned on 28 February 2010. term of five years.
2 Ceased to be a member on 28 April 2010.
Remuneration Committee 5 Appointed on 28 April 2010.
Members Highlights Committee meetings held in 2009 2010 Appointment of Mark Elliott as a Non-executive Director and 1 Noreen Doyle Chairman 6 6 Chairman elect Appointment of David Langstaff and Admiral Sir James Burnell- 2 Colin Balmer 3 3 Nugent as a Non-executive Directors 3 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 0 0 Appointment of Leo Quinn as the Group CEO and Executive Director.
2 Mark Elliott 3 3 4 Nominations Committee role and focus Dr Peter Fellner 3 3 The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
2 David Langstaff 3 3 During the financial year ended 31 March 2010, the Committee met 5 formally on three occasions and consulted informally on several Sir David Lees 6 6 other occasions.
1 Appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 5 August 2009 upon Dr Peter Fellners resignation.
2 The principal focus of the Committees activities during the financial Appointed on 5 August 2009.
3 Appointed on 28 April 2010. year ended 31 March 2010 was to review QinetiQs succession 4 Resigned on 4 August 2009. planning processes at both the Executive and Non-executive 5 Ceased to be a member on 28 April 2010.
As part of the process, the Committee oversaw the recruitment of a new Chairman elect, which culminated in the appointment of Mark Elliott as Non-executive Director in June 2009.
Mark took over the role of Chairman in March 2010.
The Committee also oversaw the appointment of two additional Non-executive Directors, which culminated in the appointment of David Langstaff in August 2009 and Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent in April 2010, together with a new CEO, which culminated in the appointment of Leo Quinn in November 2009.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 QinetiQs Compliance Committee meets on four occasions each Compliance Committee year.
It receives a quarterly report on the compliance areas that it Members monitors from the Head of Business Assurance.
In respect of the Committee meetings held in 2009 2010 Compliance Regime, the Committee receives a report from the Companys Compliance Implementation Director which describes Sir David Lees Chairman 4 4 the permissions which have been sought and granted since the last Colin Balmer 4 4 meeting of the Committee, and the status of projects where the 1 potential conflicts of interest are being managed.
The Committee Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 0 0 also receives, from the Compliance Audit Director, a report on the 2 Sir John Chisholm 4 4 effectiveness of the controls that are in place to ensure that the 3 Regime is operated correctly.
The Committee is the forum that would Mark Elliott 2 2 address any issues arising out of QinetiQs failure to comply with the 3 Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani 1 2 requirements of the Regime.
The Committee reviews the systems 4 Graham Love 2 2 that support the Compliance Regime and those that may have an impact on it, directing changes, if appropriate.
A computer-based 1 Nick Luff 0 0 training package continues to be used to ensure that all relevant 5 Leo Quinn 2 2 employees have a satisfactory knowledge of the operation of the 1 Regime.
For key roles, competence is demonstrated by passing an Appointed on 28 April 2010.
4 Ceased to be a member on 31 October 2009.
The MOD reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Compliance 5 Appointed on 16 November 2009.
Regime, through its right to have an observer at the Compliance Highlights Committee meetings.
Transition of the Committees focus to include wider compliance issues, such as ethics and the QNA Proxy Regime During the year, a total of six new permissions were sought from Further widening of the Committees remit, to include matters such the MOD under the Compliance Regime, where potential conflicts as Trade Controls and Health, Safety and Environment.
of interest were identified by QinetiQ, with one permission request being outstanding from the previous year.
Of these seven requests, five were approved, one was rejected and one remained outstanding Compliance Committee role and focus at the end of March 2010.
At the end of the year, 16 firewalls were During the last financial year, the remit of the Committee was in place, with two being established and ten being closed down widened to provide oversight of other significant compliance issues during the year.
Since vesting in 2001, a total of 119 firewalls have beyond the operation of the Compliance Regime, particularly: the operated with 103 now closed.
No breaches of the MOD Compliance activities that fall within the scope of the Helsinki Protocol covering Regime were noted during the year.
A firewall is a series of rules and trials involving human volunteers: the Groups Business Ethics policy: procedures governing written and oral communication between and the Proxy regime.
employees contributing to products in an MOD competition with industry outside the wall and employees assessing those products The Committee continues to monitor the Compliance Regime, which for MOD inside the wall.
is designed to give MOD customers confidence that QinetiQ is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive evaluation of a Following the end of the last financial year, the remit of the procurement where QinetiQ wishes to operate on both the buy and Committee was further widened to include oversight of Health, the supply sides.
QinetiQ is required by its Articles of Association to Safety and Environment, Trade Controls, Ethics and Security.
implement a Compliance Regime, which was established on its creation out of DERA.
Central to this Regime is the requirement for QinetiQ to seek permission from the MOD prior to providing commercial defence Security Committee services to others where there is potential for a conflict of interest with Members the services that QinetiQ provides to the MOD.
1 Colin Balmer Chairman In designing the Compliance Regime, the MOD and QinetiQ sought 2 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the procurement 3 customers within the MOD principally Defence Equipment and Sir John Chisholm Support and the need to allow QinetiQ flexibility to exploit research 1 Sir David Lees into the supply chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
1 Nick Luff The Compliance Regime is largely self-policing, in that it is applied by QinetiQ in respect of its activities without extensive intervention 4 Graham Love or oversight by the MOD.
Since the inception of the Compliance 1 Regime, over 97% of the requests to the MOD to allow QinetiQ to David Mellors operate on the supply side of the commercial defence market have 5 Leo Quinn been approved.
Oversight of the operation of the Regime is provided by the Compliance Committee.
The Board nominates two senior 1 Appointed on 5 August 2009. executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and 2 Appointed on 28 April 2010.
Appointed on 5 August 2009 and resigned on 28 February 2010.
4 Appointed on 5 August 2009 and ceased to be a member on 31 October 2009.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Directors Report Governance Corporate governance report continued QinetiQ Group Board and Committee structure QinetiQ Group plc Board of Directors Audit Nominations Security Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Compliance Committee Committee Security Committee role and focus Communication with shareholders The Security Committee was established in June 2009 to allow UK The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness of nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national security its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial year, dimension which have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
The the Company has maintained regular dialogue with institutional Committee has not met since its inception as no business has shareholders and the financial community, which has included arisen which would require it to do so.
The Committee is chaired presentations of the full-year and interim results including investor by Colin Balmer.
road shows held in the UK, Europe and US, regular meetings with major shareholders and industry analysts, participation in stockbrokers seminars and investor site visits.
In addition, each Going concern member of the Board attended the Companys Annual General The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to Meeting in August 2009 and a number of Non-executive Directors affect its future development and performance, are set out in the attended key shareholder events in the last financial year, including CEOs review on pages 6 to 11.
The CFOs report on pages 12 to 15 the full-year and interim results presentations, at which they were sets out details on the financial position of the Group, the cash flows, available to take questions from shareholders.
All shareholders committed borrowing facilities, liquidity and the Groups policies and and potential shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report, processes for managing both its capital and financial risks.
Note 27 to presentations to investors and other significant information about the financial statements also provides details of the Groups hedging QinetiQ on the Companys website www.
activities, financial instruments and its exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the Company highlights key business developments during The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, the year and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, the Groups key customers in its primary markets in the UK and US Compliance and Security Committees will be available to answer any remain under pressure.
In light of this, during the year the Group questions on the work of the Committees.
The Company confirms announced revised results expectations which highlighted the that it will send the AGM Notice and relevant documentation to all challenges experienced from our key markets and customers.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have elected to receive communications Despite these challenges the Directors believe that the Group is electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the well positioned to manage its overall business risks successfully.
Investor Relations Section of the Groups website.
After making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the latest five-year forecast for cash flow and results, the Directors have All shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions put to the a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll will be taken on to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The results of the votes Consequently, the Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared on the resolutions will be published on the Companys website.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with An annual process of hierarchical self-certification has been shareholders rests with the Executive Team, led by the CEO, assisted established within the organisation which provides a documented by an investor relations function which reports to the CFO.
The Board and auditable trail of accountability for the operation of the system is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including of internal control.
share price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent This process is informed by a rigorous and structured self-assessment Director and Non-executive Directors make themselves available that addresses all the guidance cited in the Combined Code and to meet with shareholders as required.
The process provides for successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
The process is informed by the Internal Management and control of US subsidiaries Audit function, which also provides a degree of assurance as to the QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are currently required by the US operation and validity of the system of internal control.
In the last National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security financial year the assessment was re-designed to provide greater clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control objectivity and incorporate a wider scope.
Planned corrective actions or influence.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ North are independently monitored for their timely completion.
America, Inc. formerly known as QinetiQ North America Operations, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US and the holding The centrally provided internal audit programme is prioritised company for the substantive part of QinetiQs North American according to risks identified by the Company and is integrated across operations and the US DoD have entered into a proxy agreement all business and functional dimensions, thereby reducing issues of that regulates the ownership, management and operation of overlap or gaps in coverage.
These risks are identified dynamically these companies.
Pursuant to this proxy arrangement, QinetiQ has and the Board is involved in this process as well as the QinetiQ appointed four US citizens Peter Marino, Riley Mixson, John Currier Executive Team and the QNA Executive Team.
and Vince Vitto holding requisite US security clearances as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights of QinetiQ North America, Inc. s The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the risk shares in the US subsidiaries.
The proxy holders are also appointed management process and the system of internal control necessary as directors of the relevant US subsidiaries and, in addition to their to manage risks and presents its findings to the Board.
Internal Audit powers as directors, have power under the proxy arrangements independently reviews the risk identification and control processes to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QinetiQ North implemented by management and reports to the Audit Committee.
The proxy holders have a fiduciary duty to, and agree Where areas for improvement in the system of internal control to perform their role in the best interests of, QinetiQ North America, are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by Inc. and consistent with the national security concerns of the US.
the QinetiQ Executive Team, the QNA Executive Team, the Audit QinetiQ does not have any representation on the boards of the Committee and the Compliance Committee.
subsidiaries covered by the proxy agreement and does not have the right to attend board meetings.
QinetiQ may not remove the proxy The Audit Committee also reviews the assurance process, ensuring holders except for acts of gross negligence or wilful misconduct that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level or for breach of the proxy agreements with the consent of the of assurance required by the Board.
It presents its findings to the US Defense Security Service.
The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control that was in operation during the financial Internal controls year ended 31 March 2010.
The Board also routinely challenges the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of management to ensure that the systems of internal control are internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding constantly improving to maintain their continuing effectiveness.
shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure QinetiQ has in place internal procedures which are designed not only to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable to comply with, but to exceed, international best practice in relation to and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or the prevention of corruption.
This is facilitated by the engagement of loss.
QinetiQ managers are responsible for the identification and independent, internationally recognised organisations, such as TRACE evaluation of significant risks applicable to their areas of business, Transparent Agents and Contracting Entities which conduct antitogether with the design and operation of suitable internal controls bribery due diligence reviews and compliance training on behalf of to ensure effective mitigation.
These risks, which are related to the the Group, particularly in circumstances in which QinetiQ is planning achievement of business objectives, are assessed on a continual basis to engage third-party agents overseas.
QinetiQ has, since 2006, been and may be associated with a variety of internal and external events, a member of the UK Defence Industry Anti-corruption Forum.
including control breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements and natural and other catastrophes.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
