Corporate governance report for the year ended 31 December 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code The company is incorporated in Jersey, where there is no formal code relating to corporate governance.
As a result, in the year ended 31 December 2010 the company was required to apply the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code which was issued in June 2008 in order to comply with the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority.
The company had previously voluntarily applied the Combined Code.
Following the issue of the UK Corporate Governance Code in June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the company has also reviewed the additional and changed principles and provisions of that code, in order to adopt the provisions early, where possible.
The company has been in compliance with the Combined Code throughout the year, except as explained below, in relation to Mr Robert Israels independence.
Details relating to the remuneration paid by the group are contained in the report of the remuneration committee which can be found on page 81 of this annual report.
In addition, reference to the groups activities of the audit and governance and nomination committees can be found on pages 77 and 93 respectively.
The board has taken cognisance of the UK Corporate Governance Code in preparing this report, and that of the remuneration, governance and nomination and audit committees.
In particular, the board acknowledges that to continue to be successful in the long term the company must be lead by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company.
The board adopted a board charter in January 2010 which clearly defines its duties and this will be updated in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of this charter is available on the companys website: www.
The following sets out a statement of how the board has applied the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the steps that they will be taking going forward to address the new or revised requirements.
Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
The board remains committed to guiding the strategic and entrepreneurial development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
Details of what the board has reserved, for its sole discretion, can be found in its charter, referred to above.
The board has reserved for its sole discretion: the finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan: the approval of the annual operating budget, and monitoring performance against budget: the approval of interim and final financial statements: the dividend policy: the approval of any significant change in accounting policies and practices: fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies: approval of all financial, legal and ethical controls of the company to ensure the appropriate compliance procedures are in place: significant mergers and acquisitions and other material transactions: approval of all mining developments: new issues of long-term debt: capital issues, any material changes to the companys capital structure: remuneration of executive directors: nominating candidates for election by the general meeting of shareholders to membership of the board: approval of all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: approval of the annual report and accounts, including the directors report, remuneration committee report, audit committee report, corporate governance report and the governance & nomination committee report and the approval of the 20-F.
In order to facilitate its supervision of the company and group the board has established three board sub-committees, the audit committee, the remuneration committee and governance and nomination committee.
Details of the charters of each committee are available on the companys website.
Randgold Resources 72 Annual report 2010 Day to day management of the company has been delegated and the chairman joined executive management visiting the to the CEO.
An executive committee has been established new Tongon mine in Cte dIvoire.
Attendance at the board by the CEO and membership is made up of the CEO as meetings is tabled below.
chairman, the financial director and senior executives of the company, which includes the operational general managers At the January 2011 board meeting, the chairman presided for East and Central Africa and West Africa as well as the over a session of the non-executive directors without the general managers of each of the companys operations.
presence of the executive directors.
In addition, the CEO chairs the companys environmental committee, details of which can be found in the social Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover has been responsibility and sustainability report which can be found on obtained by the company in respect of legal action against pages 59 to 69 on this report.
Management provides the board, ahead of each quarterly There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the board meeting, with a detailed quarterly pack which covers an head of the company between the running of the board executive overview of the company and group, and includes and the executive responsibility for the running of the reports from each mine, major project and activity along companys business.
No one individual should have with sections covering the financial, legal, technical, human unfettered powers of decision.
resources, environmental and communications activities.
In accordance with clearly defined parameters, the chairman, is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring During the year the board met five times formally.
Board effective communication exists between the executive and meetings normally take place over a two day period with the non-executive directors.
first day allocated to committee meetings and the second for the formal board meeting.
The intervening evening allows The CEO has been delegated the authority to manage the board to engage in informal discussions concerning the day-to-day administration of the group.
A formal job the activities of the group.
In addition, the January board description is in existence and this is reviewed annually by meeting is used to visit a number of the companys the board and the CEO.
operations and allows the board members to interact with a substantial number of the companys senior management, The board charter, which is available on the companys mine and project personnel.
As was the case in 2010, the January 2011 board visit took place over four days, website, clearly sets out those powers which are reserved solely for the boards discretion and consideration, while enabling members to visit the Loulo gold mine as well as the Gounkoto project in Mali.
Dr Kadri Dagdelen also paid listing separately those issues for which the CEO would be a visit to the Massawa and Bambadji projects in Senegal accountable and be monitored.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of formal Total number meetings of board Directors Designation attended meetings P Litard Non-executive chairman 5 5 5 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 5 5 5 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 5 5 5 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 5 5 5 CL Coleman Independent non-executive director 5 5 5 K Dagdelen Independent non-executive director 4 4 4 RI Israel Non-executive director 5 5 5 K Voltaire Independent non-executive director 5 5 5 JK Walden Independent non-executive director 2 2 2 Dr K Dagdelen was appointed to the board on 29 January 2010. mr JK Walden resigned from the board with effect from 1 July 2010.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the the resignation of Mr Walden the board again charged board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of the governance and nomination committee with the duty of identifying the needs of the board regarding suitable its role.
candidates and for the members to assist the committee with The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the company a short list of candidates for consideration.
The committee secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and has ensured throughout the year that time is provided for discussion continues to consider the composition of the board while regarding key strategic issues.
The usual practice of formal at the same time seeking to achieve an optimal balance meetings and committee meetings taking place over two of skills as well as an appropriate geographic and gender days allows on each occasion the board formally meets for representation.
In addition to possessing the expertise required for the strategic direction of a major international active debate among all members of the board.
As required, mining company, candidates are expected to combine a at the time of his appointment as chairman, in November strongly independent perspective with the ability to share a 2004, Mr Litard still meets the requirement of independence cohesive vision of the companys future.
As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonAs reported in the 2009 annual report, at its January 2010 executive directors should constructively challenge and meeting the board appointed Dr Dagdelen as a board member and, in accordance with the companys articles of help develop proposals on strategy.
associaton, Dr Dagdelen stood and was re-elected to the An atmosphere of open debate exists at the companys board board at the AGM on 4 May 2010.
Details of Dr Dagdelens meetings allowing for any single director to engage executive qualifications can be found on page 7 of this annual report.
management on key aspects of policy and performance.
The board believes that mining is a long-gestation business The non-executive directors believe that the format of the and as such justifies a longer period of service for nonboard, in conjunction with the activities of the three board executive directors than many industries, and that reasonable committees, is sufficient to allow them to effectively verify periods of service are therefore needed for the stability of the the performance of management in achieving set goals and board, but that new appointments are needed from time to objectives.
The members of the audit committee believe that time to add a fresh perspective.
their discussions, under the direction of the audit charter, provide an assurance regarding the integrity of the financial Following his appointment to the board in January 2010, information and that the financial controls and the systems of Dr Kadri Dagdelen was appointed to membership of the risk management are both robust and defensible.
Likewise audit committee, whilst upon his resignation from the board the remuneration committee has actively been involved in the on 1 July 2010 Mr John Walden ceased to be a member of determination of the levels of remuneration for the executive the same committee.
The current remuneration committee report, which appears on page 81 of this report, details the revisions The board monitored compliance with the independence of such executive remuneration.
The governance and criteria included in the Combined Code and now monitors nomination committee has continued its involvement with compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The regards to succession planning and were it to be deemed majority of the board therefore continues to be independent necessary would be actively involved in the appointment and non-executive directors.
All of the directors and their removal of any executive director.
biographies are set out on pages 6 to 7 of this report.
Currently Mr Israel has served as a director for more Both in the audit committee and at the main board meetings than thirteen years.
The board has considered his issues relating to financial performance are addressed.
objectivity and contribution and continues to believe For several years the company has had the position of that these are still independent in character and judgement.
However, the board agreed in 2009 that a senior independent director and Mr Norborne Cole Jr continues to serve in this role and is avaliable to shareholders for the duration of his service Mr Israel should be should they wish to contact him.
considered for re-election annually: a provision that is now a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance The non-executive directors under the leadership of the Code in any event.
chairman have continued to meet in session without the presence of the executive directors or secretary.
The Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are directors also meet without the presence of the chairman.
included in note 23 of the financial statements.
In addition, the audit committee has likewise met with the companys external audit partner without the presence of the There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent CFO, Mr Graham Shuttleworth, or the CEO.
procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
The board and its committees should have the This is dealt with in the report of the governance and appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence nomination committee.
and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time effectively.
to the company to discharge their responsibilities Since July 2010, the board has comprised eight members, effectively.
two executive and six non-executive directors.
Following The board believes that all its members have devoted Randgold Resources 74 Annual report 2010 sufficient time to the company.
Details of any candidates accommodated.
However, the board under the leadership of the chairman conducted its usual assessment.
At the existing board commitments are disclosed at the time of conclusion of the session, the chairmanship was passed to consideration of their respective appointment.
No current Mr Cole, in his capacity as senior independent director, and director, whether executive or non-executive, is the chairman the board then appraised the performance of the chairman of another FTSE 100 company, or has other significant and provided feedback to Mr Litard.
commitments that have or would prevent them from allowing sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The board continues to believe that the boards evaluation exercise is beneficial.
All directors should receive induction on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their All directors should be submitted for re-election at skills and knowledge.
regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory The board continues to operate in a field which is technically performance.
complex and directors are provided with information which At its meeting in November 2010, the board agreed as enables them to fulfil their duties effectively.
Upon joining, required by the UK Corporate Governance Code that with board members are provided with a memorandum outlining effect from the next AGM each director will stand for retheir fiduciary responsibilities.
Visits to the mines and election annually.
Any newly appointed director is subject branch offices and technical presentations provided by to election by shareholders after his her appointment.
The management are used to further their knowledge in various articles of association specify neither an age limit for directors areas of specialisation.
To facilitate Dr Dagdelens induction, nor any restriction about the period of service.
in addition to visiting Tongon and Kibali, he also visited Morila and Loulo in January 2010 and spent time with the group At the last annual general meeting, Dr Dagdelen was appointed to the board in accordance with the provisions exploration team understanding the geology in relation to the Massawa and Gounkoto discoveries during his January 2011 of Article 85.1 of the companys articles of association, and in accordance, with Article 90.1, Messrs Litard, Cole Jr, site visit.
Dr Dagdelen and his team at the Colorado School Voltaire and Israel retired by rotation and were re-elected to of Mines have been working with management on improving the board.
In compliance with Article 90.1, Dr Bristow and mine optimisations at all operations and key members of staff Mr Shuttleworth will retire by rotation and being eligible have have visited Denver for this purpose.
Mr Israel, being deemed not independent for the purposes of the Combined Code, will The board should be supplied in a timely manner with stand for re-election and Messrs Litard, Coleman, Cole Jr, information in a form and of a quality appropriate to Dr Voltaire and Dr Dagdelen will stand for re-election and as enable it to discharge its duties.
retiring directors are eligible and have offered themselves for Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of the re-election to the board.
Biographies of the directors can be company secretary to ensure an effective flow of information found on pages 6 and 7 of this annual report.
between the board, its committees and the management of the company.
The process is completely computerised Copies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive allowing the board to access all current and historical board directors are available for inspection at the companys and committee packs as well as key corporate documentation registered office.
The company secretary ensures that the board is appraised on all governance matters.
In terms of the service contracts concluded with each nonexecutive director, notice can be provided by the board of The board should undertake a formal and rigorous a director giving three months notice.
At the time, each annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its contract was concluded, the period was determined in committees and individual directors.
accordance with our articles of association allowing for a three year term, except for Mr Isreal whose term was only This is dealt with in the report of the governance and one year.
Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, The boards evaluation procedure operates through a retain and motivate directors of the quality required structured self assessment system allowing each director to run the company successfully, but a company to rate the performance of the board and its committees should avoid paying more than is necessary for this and focuses on a number of key areas.
A significant proportion of executive directors assessments are then scored and the results were tabled remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards and initially discussed at the November 2010 board meeting.
to corporate and individual performance.
A separate session at the time of the January 2011 board This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
meeting enabled the issues to be more fully discussed in detail.
This session also allowed for the evaluation of the There should be a formal and transparent procedure individual performance of each director and the contributions for developing policy on executive remuneration and for made to the board by that individual.
fixing the remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own Although it was planned that the January 2011 board meeting remuneration.
would include time for the members to meet and undertake This is dealt with in the report of the remuneration committee.
its board appraisal exercise under the guidance of a third party consultant, the political unrest in the Cte dIvoire The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
resulted in the planned itinerary being changed at the end of 2010 and the proposed third party session could not be This is dealt with in the report of the audit committee.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The board is responsible for determining the nature made to shareholders and institutional investors.
During their and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in January 2011 visit to Loulo the board had the opportunity achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should to interact with a group of investment analysts and fund maintain sound risk management and internal control managers who were then touring the operations.
the chairman joined those shareholders, investors and The directors have general responsibility for selecting suitable analysts who attended the African Mining Indaba in Cape accounting policies and applying them consistently, and Town.
Furthermore, the entire board joined management for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to at the August 2010 quarterly results presentations and safeguard the assets of the group and prevent and detect both events allowed for interaction with those present.
As discussed above, the The board continues to use the internet for publication of board has reserved for itself such business decisions so it announcements and to file these on the companys website can assess the significant risks to achieve the companys to assist with communication with shareholders.
In addition, strategic objectives and, in this regard, refer to the audit the board encourages shareholders to access the annual committee report on pages 77 to 80. report from the website rather than having it sent by post in printed form.
Our public relations department monitors The board should establish formal and transparent and responds to all feedback received through our website.
arrangements for considering how they should apply the The structure and accessibility of our website is regularly corporate reporting and risk management and internal monitored through a process of internal and external audits.
control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
The board should use the AGM to communicate with This is dealt with in the risk management section of the report investors and to encourage their participation.
The board believes that the annual general meeting continues to be an appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and The companys audit committee has been set up to review encourages their attendance and participation.
In order to the companys financial reports, internal control principles reflect the sentiment of shareholders at the annual general and risk management systems, significant financial reporting meeting, it is an unwritten policy that all resolutions should judgements and for dealing with the appointment of the be considered by way of a ballot poll and the number of auditors and monitoring their relationship with the company proxies received disclosed to members in attendance.
A copy of the companys audit charter, each annual general meeting, all committee chairmen as well which is reviewed annually, is available on the companys as other non-executive directors are present to address any website.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on Institutional shareholders should enter into dialogue with the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a companies based upon the mutual understanding of whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory objectives.
It has been the policy of the company that dialogue with shareholders takes place.
twice a year road shows are conducted by the CEO The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining accompanied by various members of senior management effective communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, where meetings are held with most of the companys major corporate communications manager and the companys institutional shareholders to brief them on the activities of the investor relations consultants prepare a quarterly report for company.
Furthermore, after the publication of each set of the board detailing the activities and presentations given quarterly results the chairman and CEO will typically make to shareholders.
In addition, since September 2004 the themselves available on a conference call with interested company has employed international market intelligence shareholders and investors, a briefing of UK and other experts to provide a global shareholder identification service international media outlets and in addition the chairman and which has greatly enhanced the focus of the companys the CEO will conduct meetings with certain of the companys communication message.
The road shows are in addition to the companys attendance at several key international gold Although corporate communication with shareholders is mining conferences around the world.
generally conducted by the CEO, the chairman, at least quarterly, participates in an open forum with shareholders Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make and stakeholders.
In addition, the chairman leads a group of considered use of their votes.
The company is pleased to senior executives and directors to the African Mining Indaba, see the increasing trend of institutional shareholders now one of the premier global mining conferences attended by a exercising their rights to vote at general meetings.
Over the substantial number of global players in the mining and related past three years the percentage of shareholders present and industries.
voting at the companys AGM has increased dramatically.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum of two road shows are undertaken during the year Since the companys UK listing in 1997, all resolutions to enable company representatives to interact directly with considered at its general meeting have been by way of a poll as the board believes that this more accurately reflects the shareholders and interested parties.
Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors to join him at presentations views of its shareholders.
