Governance and nomination report for the year ended 31 December 2010 During the year, to highlight the importance that the board applies to governance issues, the decision was taken to alter the name of the committee to the governance and nomination committee.
The members of the governance and nomination committee and their respective attendance during the year were as follows: GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings held Members Appointed and attended P Litard Chairman 27 October 2006 4 4 NP Cole Jr 27 October 2007 4 4 CL Coleman 3 November 2008 4 4 RI Israel 5 May 2009 4 4 In accordance with the directors remuneration policy, Mr Litard receives a fee as the group chairman and Mr Cole Jr received a fee as senior independent director and therefore no additional payments for services to the committee were made.
Fees paid to Messrs Coleman and Israel were US$10 000 each.
In compliance with the Combined Code and UK Corporate Governance Code, the board acknowledges that there should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
Following the resignation of Mr Walden the governance and nomination committee again reviewed the experience and contributions brought by existing board members and it was agreed that a candidate be sought with the necessary independent financial and international market experience.
Accordingly, the committee is identifying potential candidates who meet the identified job specifications.
The board has not made use of either a search agency nor did it advertise for the position.
The board believes that mining is a complex industry and for this reason decided that candidates for board membership could be best identified through personal contact and therefore neither uses a search agency nor advertised for the position.
As noted in the 2009 annual report Dr Dagdelen was elected as a non-executive director on 29 January 2010.
A full biography of Dr Dagdelen is shown on page 7 of this report.
In addition, the committee continued to review the company succession planning procedure, and in particular strategy and tactics regarding key management.
This process involves executive and senior management within the group.
In addition to the appointment of directors, the appointment and removal of the company secretary remains a matter for consideration by the board as a whole.
Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 93 GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATION REPORT CONTINUED All members of the board now have letters of appointment regulations to which the company is subject.
In particular, which will be available for inspection at our registered office the new articles of association reflect certain amendments to and at the AGM meeting itself.
the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended and certain requirements of the UK Listing Rules which come into effect for companies incorporated outside of the UK who have a At its November 2010 meeting, the committee reviewed the premium listing of equity securities on the Official List of the key policies and charters within the group.
The board charter along with the governance and nomination committee UK Financial Services Authority.
charter and the charters of the other board committees are published on the companys website.
All key group policies The principal changes introduced in the new articles of were reviewed at the November 2010 board meeting and association are summarised in Appendix 1 to the Notice where it was felt necessary amendments be made to the to Shareholders.
Other changes, which are of a minor, relevant policies.
technical or clarifying nature, have not been included in the summary.
Copies of the new articles of association and the Current Articles will be available for inspection at the It is proposed that as part of the resolutions for consideration companys registered office 3rd Floor, Unity Chambers, at the forthcoming annual general meeting, that a separate 28 Halkett Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 4WJ, Channel resolution be included to adopt new articles of association in Islands and the companys office in London at 1st Floor, order to update the companys current articles of association the Current Articles.
The new articles of association 2 Savoy Court, Strand, London WC2R 0EZ, United Kingdom primarily take account of changes to law and practice since from the date of the Notice to Shareholders until the time of the Current Articles were last updated and incorporate certain the annual general meeting.
A copy of the new articles of amendments required as a result of changes to the laws and association can also be found at www.
