Audit committee report for the year ended 31 December 2010 The function of the audit committee is to support the board by monitoring the decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting and robust systems of internal control and risk management.
The audit committees responsibilities include: review of accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the financial statements and financial information which is available publically the review of procedures and policies relating to financial and operational controls, including internal reports on the effectiveness of controls review with external auditors of the scope and results of their audit the appointment, remuneration, qualifications, independence and performance of the external auditors review of and recommendation to the board for approval of the groups risk management policies and procedures compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings Members Appointed Resigned attended K Voltaire Chairman since 5 may 2009 1 August 2006 6 6 CL Coleman 11 May 2009 6 6 K Dagdelen 29 January 2010 4 5 JK Walden 3 November 2008 1 July 2010 4 4 To ensure the audit committee discharges its responsibilities, it meets not less than four times per year and is regularly updated on new legislation and other information relevant to the audit committees role.
To assist management in providing the information to allow the audit committee to discharge its responsibilities the groups chief financial officer, other executive management, external auditors and the business assurance manager regularly attend the audit committees meetings.
For the first six months of the year the audit committee comprised four members reducing to three for the remainder of the period, all of whom were non-executive directors.
For reasons described in the corporate governance report, the board considers that the members of the audit committee are all independent.
The chairman has a PhD in finance and one of the members has a considerable number of years of experience in the financial services sector.
Mr Walden was a qualified chartered accountant and remains in compliance with the professional standards required by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The board believes that this level of experience continues to be sufficient to meet the standards imposed by the Combined Code and UK Corporate Governance Code.
In the event that any issues should arise which would Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 77 REPORT Of ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED be deemed outside the areas of expertise of the members, Previously the board through the audit committee considered independent professional advice would be sought.
the necessity for a seperate internal audit function on a regular basis.
However, given the size and complexity of the Over the year the audit committee met six times and the group they considered the regular audits of Morila and Loulo attendance of members of the audit committee at such undertaken by executive management and the financial and meetings is as indicated in the table on page 77. technical audits of the companys branch offices and major assets to be sufficient.
In terms of the directors remuneration policy, for service to the audit committee for the year, Dr Voltaire and Messrs During 2009, the company appointed a chartered accountant Coleman, Walden and Dr Dagdelen were paid US$50 000, who is responsible for the groups compliance with respect to US$35 000, US$17 500 and US$32 083 respectively.
the Sarbanes Oxley Act Sox and internal audit.
This has The board acknowledges that pursuant to the Companies meant that the method by which the company conducted its Jersey Law, 1991, the Combined Code and the UK internal auditing has developed and this has further evolved in Corporate Governance Code it has a responsibility to November 2010 with the creation of an internal audit function present a balanced and understandable assessment of whose purpose will be to enhance business assurance and the companys and the groups position and prospects.
provide a value added service to the board through the audit This extends to the preparation and publication of the committee and to the company in general.
annual report and any other release of information, price sensitive or otherwise.
The board also acknowledges that During the year the board, through the audit committee, the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions include an reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal explanation of the basis on which the group generates or controls for the financial year in accordance with the UK preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for Corporate Governance Code.
These reviews were performed delivering the objectives of the group.
by the business assurance manager and the scope of these The directors are also required to prepare financial reports included financial, operational and compliance statements for the group in accordance with International controls as well as a group risk review which was performed Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European with group management.
These reports were submitted and Union IFRS.
The directors have chosen to prepare financial presented to the audit committee for review and evaluation, statements for the company in accordance with IFRS as including the assessment of key risks facing the group, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
such the board consider that the effectiveness of the internal The directors are responsible for the maintenance of proper controls has been properly reviewed and the board have accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair sought to strengthen the internal control environment with presentation of the financial statements of the company and the introduction of a separate internal audit function.
The executive management continues to undertake regular The directors have also prepared the other information included in the annual report and are responsible for both its reviews of various parts of Morila, Loulo and Tongon mines accuracy and its consistency with the financial statements.
including evaluation and review of their financial functions and detailed reports are submitted to the audit committee The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the and board for comment.
Financial and technical audits of the financial statements.
The directors have no reason to believe companys branch offices and major assets are conducted at that the group and company will not be a going concern in least annually by the business assurance manager and these the foreseeable future based on forecasts and available cash reports are submitted to the board.
The viability of the company and the group is manager met with the audit committee at its November 2010 supported by the financial statements.
The group has operated a code of ethics, which has recently The board notes that no cost effective system will preclude all been updated, since its United Kingdom listing in July 1997. errors and irregularities and so the groups system of internal The code includes specific reference to the companys financial managers and the chief executive officer.
A copy controls provides reasonable, but not absolute assurance, of the revised code is available on the companys website.
against material mis-statement or loss.
The committee makes recommendations to the board in The board has identified various risk factors which it relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of considers either individually or in a combination as likely to the external auditors as well as the remuneration and terms have a materially adverse effect on its business.
Full details of engagement of the external auditors.
The committee relating to these risk factors as well as those relating to our considers re-tendering on a periodic basis, as they consider industry can be found in our annual report on Form 20-F filed appropriate.
BDO LLP served as external auditors for the with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, a copy of group for the 2010 financial year and their appointment will which is contained on the companys website.
However, in be recommended to shareholders at the May 2011 annual this report, the board has itemised several key risks and how general meeting.
There are no contractual restrictions on our ability to appoint alternative auditors.
these are being managed: Randgold Resources 78 Annual report 2010 The companys mining operations may yield those markets could adversely affect the companys less gold under actual production conditions than ability to obtain financing and capital resources required indicated by its gold reserve figures, which are by the business.
estimates based on a number of assumptions, including At the quarterly meetings the board closely monitors the assumptions as to mining and recovery factors, valuation and cashflows of the group, as prepared by management, along with a five-year forecast and this assists production costs and the price of gold.
in understanding the variety of risks facing the group and The company publishes its reserves and resources the likelihood that future external funding might be required.
calculations based on gold prices which are lower than This advanced understanding of the cash requirements of the current market prices of gold.
The price which the the group allows the board to manage the risks of sourcing company uses for this calculation is reviewed annually given funding in difficult market conditions.
Based on current the movement of the gold price during the year, as well as projections the board does not believe that such funding will changes in the cost of production.
be necessary in the forseeable future.
The companys underground project at Loulo, developing Audit committee and auditors two mines at Yalea and Gara, is subject to all of the risks The companys auditors, BDO LLP, perform an integrated associated with underground mining.
audit of the internal controls over financial reporting as The company is cognisant of the difficulties that underground part of the groups financial audit, and their findings are mining raises and for this reason has negotiated with communicated to the audit committee.
third party miners to assist with the development of its underground mines at Loulo and thereby attempt to reduce During the year, BDO LLP were paid US$729 318 2009: the likely risks.
However, management is acutely aware of US$1 228 516 for their services.
The groups previous the various problems that can arise and continues to pay external auditors, , were paid careful attention to all such issues and regularly consults with US$17 215 2009: US$262 115 in respect of their sign off third party experts to make use of their knowledge within of the annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 specific areas of expertise.
In addition, during the year, an December 2009.
The audit committee reviews and monitors experienced mining engineer was appointed as a member the external auditors independence and the objectivity of the executive management committee responsible for all and effectiveness of the audit process.
This is undertaken mining operations within the group.
within the framework of a detailed audit charter.
The audit committee has implemented a policy regarding the provision, The companys success may depend on its social and and pre-approval thereof, of non-audit services by the external environmental performance.
auditors and this mandate is reviewed annually.
During the The company acknowledges that both social and year BDO provided no non-audit services which would have environmental issues can have a material effect on its resulted in the audit committee having to consider whether performance.
As indicated in the social responsibility and these functions would have affected BDOs independence.
sustainability report on page 60, attention is placed on A copy of the audit charter is available on the companys maintaining sound relations with local communities and website.
working with these groups to enhance these relationships.
In addition the companys environmental committee, under the The audit committee reviews the companys published chairmanship of the companys CEO, continues to address results, the effectiveness of its system of internal control, legal key issues under its mandate and reports quarterly on its and regulatory compliance including the Sarbanes Oxley Act, activities and deliberations to the board of directors.
and the cost effectiveness of the services provided by the external auditors.
The use of mining contractors at certain of the companys operations may expose it to delays or suspensions in The audit committee meets regularly and this includes mining activities.
quarterly meetings which are used to consider and approve The close monitoring of performance of third party contractors the companys quarterly results.
The external auditors assists the company in managing the risk of either delays or are regularly invited to attend meetings to report on their suspensions of activities.
Each mines mining manager is activities.
If it is deemed appropriate, the audit committee responsible for the performance of the contractors employed also meets with the external auditors, independent of the on that operation and any issues and problems with any executive directors or management.
Such a meeting took performance are quickly shared within the executive structure place in January 2011 following the presentation of the audit and effectively dealt with.
committee report by the BDO audit partner.
RISK MANAGEMENT The company may be required in the long term to seek funding from the global credit and capital markets to The group maintains a business control framework that develop its properties, and the recent weaknesses in documents the key business risks, together with the related Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 79 REPORT Of ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED operational, financial and compliance controls.
The business point of contact is the companys legal counsel who upon control framework is reviewed annually and updated by notification of such an issue having being raised would management, who report quarterly to the board on any employ independent consultants and pass the findings issues which might affect the risks and controls.
The board onto the senior independent director to pursue any alleged acknowledges that it has responsibility for the ongoing review irregularity.
Quarterly reports are submitted to the audit and update of the business control framework and believes committee concerning any instances where complaints that, through the procedures noted above and below, it has are submitted.
In addition the company has adopted a complied with the requirements of the Combined Code and UK Corporate Governance Code to review the effectiveness policy in accordance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practice of the groups internal controls at least annually.
The Act and all operations, as well as the companys logistics company continues to adhere to the requirements of section department and key suppliers have been briefed concerning 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
the implication of the Act.
The Sarbanes Oxley Act requires companies to establish The audit committee has continued to oversee the groups whistle-blower systems.
The geographical spread of the compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the groups activities, particularly in remote West and Central Sarbanes Oxley Act.
African locations, makes the system complex.
The first Randgold Resources 80 Annual report 2010
