Directors report: Corporate governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key board responsibilities Governance statement The board is responsible for: Group strategy, objectives and policies: The board is committed to ensuring that the Group is well managed and that rigorous and transparent procedures allow general and long-term progress within the political, economic, thisto happen.
environmental and social setting of the day: The principal governance rules applying to UK companies financial performance, annual budgets and business plans: listed on the London Stock Exchange with accounting periods beginning before 29 June 2010 are contained in the Combined major capital expenditure, acquisitions and divestments: Code on Corporate Governance, revised by the Financial annual and half-year financial results and interim Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
This management statements: report also includes the information that is required by the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency board committees and their terms of reference: Rules to be contained in the Companys annual report.
internal controls and risk management: The board confirms that it has fully complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the financial year sound governance, health and safety, and environmental policies: ended 31 December 2010. board and company secretary appointments: and This statement explains how we have applied the principles of the Combined Code, our governance policies and practices senior management structure, remuneration and succession.
and how we run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
Specific responsibilities are delegated to our four committees audit p50, remuneration p48, nominations p46 and finance p45.
They report to the board and operate within defined Combined Code main principles termsof reference, which can be obtained from our website athttp: www.
Directors to the company secretary.
1 The board Board meetings Every company should be headed by an effective board, which Board meetings allow for regular and frank discussion on strategy, is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
trading, financial performance and risk management.
There were eight scheduled meetings during the year and Board composition fouradditional meetings to discuss specific issues.
Our meeting The board consists of: inJune, held away from our headquarters, was devoted entirely a non-executive chairman: to strategy.
During the year, the boards committees also met regularly four independent non-executive directors: todischarge their duties.
two non-independent non-executive directors: and In exceptional circumstances when a director is unable toattend a meeting, his comments on briefing papers can be two executive directors the chief executive and given in advance to the relevant chairman.
The names and biographies of all directors are published on page 43.
The directors attendance at 2010 board and committees meetings is recorded in the table below.
It shows the number of meetings attended by each director compared with the number of meetings that director was eligible to attend.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Finance Board committee committee committee committee Ian Burke 12 12 n a n a 4 4 20 20 Paddy Gallagher 11 12 n a n a n a 20 20 Richard Greenhalgh 12 12 3 3 6 6 3 3 n a Peter Johnson 12 12 n a n a 4 4 20 20 Owen ODonnell 12 12 3 3 6 6 n a n a Tim Scoble 5 5 n a n a n a n a Bill Shannon 12 12 3 3 6 6 4 4 n a Mike Smith 5 5 n a n a n a n a John Warren 12 12 3 3 6 6 4 4 n a Not eligible to attend one meeting as it related to his re-appointment.
Appointed by shareholders at the annual general meeting on 22 April 2010.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 44 Insurance and indemnity Chief executive The Company has arranged insurance cover and indemnity in The chief executives role is to: respect of legal action against its directors to the extent permitted manage and promote long-term profitable development: by law.
Directors insurance and indemnity do not provide cover in exercise stewardship of intellectual property, human and situations where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
financial resources and ensure that the relevant policies areimplemented: Conflicts of interest The directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest.
plan strategy and prepare objectives and policies for In accordance with our articles of association, we have adopted boardapproval: apolicy and procedure for managing and, if appropriate, ensure action is taken to achieve strategies, objectives and authorising actual or potential conflicts of interest.
policies, as approved by the board: We review directors conflicts of interest once a year.
Directors are required to disclose any other new appointments before ensure objectives, policies and strategies are adopted for each agreeing to take them on, so that any conflicts of interest can Group business, that appropriate budgets are set for them beidentified and addressed.
individually, that their performance is monitored, and that During the period under review, one non-executive director guidance is given when needed: took on a position with an external organisation and no conflicts take responsibility for Group health and safety policies: ofinterest in relation thereto have been identified.
The board also assesses conflicts of interest before making make sure the Group complies with all relevant legislation: and anynew appointments.
lead ongoing communication with employees.
Two board appointments were made at the 2010 annual general meeting and the board assessed the potential conflicts Finance committee that could theoretically arise with regard to those individuals.
The board has established a finance committee which is The board is satisfied that its conflicts of interest procedure is comprised of the chairman, chief executive and finance director sufficiently robust to deal with any potential conflicts that might which is authorised to approve capital expenditure and make arise in relation to these appointments.
financing decisions for the Group up to authorised limits.
On behalf of the board, the finance committees role includes setting, A.
2 Clear division of responsibilities monitoring and reporting on: There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head operating plans: of the company between the running of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers performance against budget: and ofdecision.
We have approved a clear division of responsibilities for the The committees terms of reference are available from the chairman and chief executive.
Companys website at http: www.
com downloads terms Chairman of reference tor finance committee.
pdf, or by writing to the The chairman is charged to: company secretary.
The committee met on 20 occasions during the year and the manage the business of the board, preside over meetings and issues it discussed included: seek prompt and appropriate decisions: assessing potential business expansion opportunities: work with the company secretary to ensure directors receive accurate and clear information for the proper execution of capital expenditure requests for new sites and theirduties: gamingequipment: oversee effective communication with shareholders: the Groups utilities requirement: keep the Groups progress and development under review: insurance cover and uninsured risks: ensure the chief executives Group objectives, policies and disposal of Blue Square on-course betting business: strategies are consistent with lasting shareholder value: treasury matters: and evaluate the board and its committees: and non-executive directors fee review.
ensure the Groups governance is effective and in line with bestpractice.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 45 Directors report: Corporate governance continued A.
3 Board balance and independence Non-independent non-executive directors At the Companys 2010 annual general meeting two individuals The board should include a balance of executive and nonwere, on the recommendation of the board, elected by executive directors and in particular independent nonshareholders as directors of the Company.
Both individuals are executive directors such that no individual or small group appointees of Guoco Group Limited Guoco, a parent company ofindividuals can dominate the boards decision making.
of Ranks largest shareholder, which owns 114,235,699 ordinary Size and structure shares in the Company, representing 29.25% of voting rights.
During the year the nominations committee considered the Clearly the presence of representatives of a significant boards size and structure and concluded that it was well balanced shareholder, particularly one with the size of Guocos providing a collective competence to suit the Groups developing shareholding, on the board raises some important corporate needs and an appropriate blend of executive and non-executive governance issues.
As a board we carefully considered these skill.
We believe that all our directors are suitably qualified to issuesin detail and we believe that the decision to propose those help steer and challenge Group strategy.
individuals for election as directors was in the interests of all Half of our board, excluding the chairman, is independent: shareholders.
Both Guoco appointed directors are experienced executives in the leisure industry and we believe their Name Independent 3-year term Appointed contribution is additive to the Group and therefore in the Chairman interests of all shareholders.
Peter Johnson 9 2nd Jan 07 On 21 February 2011, Mike Smith tendered his resignation Executive from the board with effect from 30 April 2011, when he will alsoleave his position as finance director of Clermont Leisure, Ian Burke x n a Mar 06 acompany within the Guoco group of companies.
Tim Scoble Paddy Gallagher x n a Jun 08 willremain on the Rank board as a representative of Guoco and Non-executive Rankanticipates that Guoco will propose the appointment of an Richard Greenhalgh 9 3rd Jul 04 additional representative to replace Mike Smith later in the year.
Owen ODonnell 9 1st Sep 08 Committees Tim Scoble x n a Apr 10 The composition and chairmanship of our board committees is Bill Shannon 9 2nd Apr 06 considered annually.
At its review in January 2011, the board was not of the view that it would be beneficial to make any changes Mike Smith x n a Apr 10 to the chairmanship or membership of any of its committees.
4 Appointments to the board Peter Johnson was appointed chairman on 1 March 2007 Richard Greenhalgh is the senior independent director.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board.
The board considers the chairman and four of the non-executive directors to be independent.
Two of the non-executive directors Nominations committee are not independent they are appointees of Guoco Group We have a thorough and transparent procedure for appointing Limited, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, which new directors, supported by the formal terms of reference of the owns 114,235,699 ordinary shares in the Company, representing nominations committee which are available on our website at 29.25% of voting rights.
com downloads terms of reference tor The principal terms and conditions of appointment for each nominations committee.
pdf, or by written request to the director are set out on pages 57 to 59 and their interests in Rank company secretary.
shares are detailed on page 53.
The nominations committee is responsible for identifying relevant talent and nominating all board appointments.
Board diversity Webelieve it is sensible for the chairman and chief executive During the year the nominations committee also considered the tosit on the committee and be fully involved in the process issue of diversity in the context of the board.
Whilst the board except when their own re-appointment is discussed.
lacks diversity, the nominations committee was of the view that it was not appropriate to increase the size of the board merely in During 2010 the committee met formally on four occasions.
Instead, it would be preferable to wait Themain issues which it discussed were: for a vacancy to arise on the board.
board composition: Senior independent director board diversity see above for more information : As senior independent director since April 2006, Richard Greenhalgh is available to talk with shareholders who have appointment of additional non-executive directors questions or concerns.
He also chairs meetings when nonsee above formore information : executive directors review the performance of the chairman.
re-appointment of senior independent director see p47 for moreinformation : chairmanship and membership of board committees: and identification of directors for re-election by shareholders.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 46 Terms of appointment Skills and knowledge The agreed terms and conditions for non-executive directors All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and, if required, may take independent advice comply with the Combined Code and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
and or professional development at the Companys expense.
During the year the human resources director met and Re-appointment of senior independent director corresponded individually with each non-executive director As at 30 June 2010 Richard Greenhalgh had served his second todiscuss with them their training and development needs three-year term as a non-executive director of the Company.
Additionally, as part of the board Thenominations committee considered the re-appointment effectiveness evaluation process, each director was invited to ofRichard Greenhalgh for a third and final three-year term identify any desired skills and knowledge enhancements so andwasof the view that continuity would be beneficial for the thatappropriate training could be arranged.
Groupand recommended to the board that he be re-appointed.
6 Board performance evaluation The board agreed the recommendation and Richard Greenhalgh was re-appointed as a non-executive director and the senior The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual independent director for a further period of three years from evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees 1July 2010.
In accordance with article 86 of the Companys and individual directors.
articles of association, Richard Greenhalgh is offering himself The board makes sure that the chairman has enough time to forre-election at the Companys 2011 general meeting.
During the year we were unanimously satisfied A.
5 Information and professional development that Peter Johnsons other commitments had no material impact on the execution of his duties.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with To monitor overall board performance, we use off-the-record information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable questionnaires between the chairman and each director to itto discharge its duties.
All directors should receive induction evaluate individuals, the committees and the board as a whole.
on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh The chairman conducts individual interviews with each their skills and knowledge.
board member to discuss their contributions during the year Information andany other issues arising out of the evaluation process.
Assisted by the company secretary, the chairman is responsible The chairmans performance is evaluated through a confidential for ensuring that directors receive accurate and timely questionnaire, completed by all non-executive and executive information on all relevant matters.
The non-executive directors held their annual meeting The directors receive a monthly report of current and forecast to appraise the chairmans effectiveness in January 2011. trading results and treasury positions, as well as updates on At least once a year, the chairman holds a meeting solely with shareholder views.
non-executive directors to consider the performance of executive A rolling programme of items sets the agenda for board directors.
This meeting took place in January 2011. discussion.
This is regularly reviewed and updated to cover We have reviewed the questionnaire reports and are agreed that: topical issues and developments.
Comprehensive briefing papers on substantive agenda items the board functioned effectively during 2010: and are circulated at least five working days before meetings where its committees continued to discharge their duties in line with possible.
These contain detailed background information, thus their respective terms of reference.
freeing valuable time for informed debate.
The core business of the board focuses on: strategy, capital A.
7 Re-election of directors expenditure, responsible operation, gaming industry issues, risk All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular mitigation, succession planning and investor relations feedback.
intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
We operate an open-door policy between the board and the Theboard should ensure planned and progressive refreshing executive.
Members of the executive also make regular board ofthe board.
presentations to ensure a flow of operational information reaches the directors in a timely way.
During 2010, the director of All new directors must stand for election at the first annual strategy and the managing directors of Grosvenor Casinos, general meeting after their appointment and, thereafter, at MeccaBingo and Rank Interactive presented to the board at three intervals of no more than three years.
The human resources director presented an update to areengaged for an initial period of three years and must stand the Groups succession plan to the board in July and the new forelection and re-appointment in the same way.
managing director of Top Rank Espaa presented that businesss Directors seeking re-election at 2011 AGM strategy to the board in October.
Ranks articles of association require one third of serving directors Informal dinners with management have proved an effective to retire annually and Paddy Gallagher, Owen ODonnell and forum for open discussion and three were held during the year.
John Warren will be offering themselves for re-election at the Induction forthcoming annual general meeting.
Richard Greenhalgh will During the year, two non-executive directors were appointed beseeking re-appointment following the board approving his tothe board.
They were given a comprehensive induction re-appointment as a non-executive director and the senior programme, which included briefings on the Groups trading independent director for a further period of three years environment, site visits and meetings with senior management.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 47 Directors report: Corporate governance continued Communication control: the executive directors and senior B. Remuneration management meet regularly with representatives from the There should be a formal and transparent procedure for businesses to address financial, human resource, risk developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing management and other control issues.
theremuneration packages of individual directors.
No director Our system of internal control is designed to manage rather than should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and The board has established a remuneration committee of four provides reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material independent non-executive directors.
A rolling agenda and misstatement or loss.
It controls, rather than eliminates, any topical items determine the committees discussions.
human error, deliberate misconduct or unforeseen events.
A separate remuneration report which gives more Internal audit information on the work of the committee and how it has Our internal audit team provides an objective and continuous applied the provisions of the Combined Code in relation stream of data and opinion on risk management and control.
to the level and make-up of remuneration can be found Toavoid bias, it is entirely independent of the business on pages 56 to 65. operations under audit.
C. Accountability and audit The team is responsible for a systematic appraisal of our adherence to policies and procedures.
Its role is to safeguard C. 1 Financial reporting Ranks assets and interests from loss, including fraud, and to The board should present a balanced and understandable ensure the integrity of financial information.
assessment of the companys position and prospects.
The head of internal audit makes regular presentations to thecommittee and reporting includes comparative and trend The directors responsibility statements can be found on page 55. analysis.
During the year he had three closed sessions with the C. 2 Internal control audit committee without anybody from executive management being present.
The board should maintain a sound system of internal To embed control further, the scores used by internal audit control to safeguard shareholders investment and the tomonitor each business units reporting performance now also companys assets.
Internal control framework Compliance To maintain control and direction over strategic, financial, Compliance affects our reputation, legal position and financial operational and compliance issues, the board has put in sustainability.
We are responsible for compliance across the placeformally defined lines of responsibility and delegation Group and for ensuring that all Rank businesses meet local legal ofauthority.
Established procedures are geared to identify, evaluate and Compliance with the Gambling Act 2005 and its forerunner, manage significant risks and to monitor the Groups businesses the Gaming Act 1968 is fundamental to the survival of and performance.
Ranksbusinesses, creating a heavily compliant culture within This framework is reviewed annually and is designed to theCompany.
safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, while A dedicated compliance team of 15 employees monitors ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained.
Senior day-to-day adherence to the provisions of the Act and other management is responsible for making sure that controls and regulatory obligations.
procedures are enforced and that the board is informed of any Senior executives, the internal audit team and our external risks and control issues that arise.
auditors are responsible for monitoring overall compliance.
Financial control: there is a comprehensive system for reporting Theyreport to the audit committee and the board.
financial results to the board, a budgeting process, an approved Control culture budget and quarterly re-forecasts.
The chief executive and Group We oversee a culture of strong control and risk management.
finance director hold monthly review meetings with managing Thisis reflected in: directors and their respective finance directors.
directors methods of enforcing control, some of which were Financial reporting control: detailed policies and procedures established through Ranks historical activities in the USA and arein place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial the requirement to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: reporting.
We will be installing a new financial reporting systemduring the first half of 2011 which should enhance management style and philosophy: ourreporting capability.
dedicated teams for compliance and internal audit: and Strategic control: the board reviews the Groups strategic plans Ranks organisational structure and clear lines of accountability, annually and regularly reviews strategic progress.
Operational control: our procedures are laid down in detailed manuals and reinforced by employee training.
Each business unit carries out a monthly self-audit to test key controls and report weaknesses to operational management.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 48 Code of conduct However, in recognition of the fact that the Group had a stable We have an employee code of conduct that sets out our values business operation, the board was of the view that a greater and principles and guides everyones behaviour.
Adherence to the degree of risk could be taken when appropriate.
Given that code is important.
It upholds our reputation and relationships, Rankoperates in an industry which is subject to government inside and outside the Company.
intervention, there would be a tendency towards a lower risk The audit committee is responsible for monitoring appetite than in some other businesses.
management reports on employee conduct, including our In September 2010, individuals from the firm engaged whistle-blowing programme.
tofacilitate the risk assessment exercise interviewed a selectednumber of employees from the Groups operations Bribery Act 2010 andsupport functions.
The board has been keeping under review managements In October 2010, the executive committee participated in preparations for the forthcoming implementation of the anexternally facilitated risk assessment workshop to consider BriberyAct 2010.
At its meeting in September 2010, the board therisks identified at the individual interviews and to rank them.
reviewed and approved the actions that had been taken by Individual risk owners were then asked to develop mitigating management todate, including an assessment of the potential actions, risk indicators and measurement criteria.
A summary risk areas for Rank and the associated mitigating actions.
Our riskprofile and action plans for the top ten risks were presented chief executive has been appointed as Ranks main board Bribery to the committee in December 2010 and reviewed by the board Act 2010 champion.
In terms of board and committee reporting, in January 2011. going forward, the Bribery Act 2010 will form part of the general During 2011 the executive committee will review the agreed risks and internal controls reporting to the board and form measurement criteria for the risk indicators identified for the top partof the bi-annual employee code of conduct reports to ten risks on a quarterly basis and report to the board thereafter.
Principal risks and uncertainties Risk management We outline below what we are doing to address our principal As part of its risk oversight role, the board satisfies itself that risks.
The key financial risks facing the Group can be found on thenecessary steps are taken to foster a culture of risk-adjusted page 37. decision-making throughout the Group.
The board strives to ensure that risk management is an integral component of the Taxation and regulation Groups corporate strategy, culture and value generation process.
Adverse change fiscal and regulatory in legislation continues The boards view is that risk management should be neither an tobe our biggest risk.
We participate actively in trade bodies impediment to the conduct of business nor a mere supplement presentations to Government and opposition parties.
During the tothe Groups overall compliance programme.
year we arranged key stakeholder familiarisation visits to some The risk management process is reviewed by the audit ofour sites in order that stakeholders could have an opportunity committee on behalf of the board and monitored regularly to see our businesses in operation and gain a better understanding bythechief executive, supported by the company secretary.
of the positive effect of our business activities, including the The Companys risk management reporting provides provision of a safe environment within which adults can enjoy knowledge of current and emerging risks, trends and gambling, the creation of employment and the generation of opportunities that may colour strategic decisions.
We revenues for the Exchequer.
communicate with regulators, Government, non-governmental In February 2010, Rank published a report entitled organisations and other bodies who have opinions about our Responsible taxation: Fairness, Simplicity, Sustainability in business, its future and effects.
which it outlined a proposal for a new simplified and coherent In January 2010, Ranks then external auditors assisted in regime for betting and gaming.
That report can be found at undertaking an assurance mapping exercise in relation to the http: www.
top23 risks identified on Ranks risk register and the results were Wecontinue to engage with the Government and opposition reported to February 2010s audit committee meeting.
Following a review of the results of the assurance mapping Additionally, in March 2010, Rank published a further report exercise and having regard to the fact that the Group, having entitled Gaming and betting 2010: Fairness, Responsibility and stabilised, had now entered a new phase, the board was of the Sustainability as an introduction to Rank commencing a process view that the execution of the Groups strategic objectives should of working with politicians, the Gambling Commission and other be the primary risk focus.
To that end work started on a new stakeholders to shape a positive environment for gaming and externally facilitated risk assessment exercise in June 2010.
In betting in Great Britain.
A copy of that report can be found order to bring a fresh perspective to the exercise, the external onour website at http: www.
com downloads political facilitation was conducted by a firm who had not previously manifesto.
assisted Rank in a risk assessment exercise.
At its meetings in June and July 2010, the board considered and discussed its appetite for risk going forward.
In recent years, due to the legacy business difficulties that Rank had faced and due to the global credit crisis, it had been appropriate to maintain a low risk appetite in order to maximise shareholder value.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 49 Directors report: Corporate governance continued IT security Economic environment In keeping with our focus on customer and employee safety and The uncertain economic environment, higher indirect taxation given the predominantly cash-based nature of our businesses, our and public sector job cuts could adversely affect our customers security function has a physical security bias.
However, as our expenditure on leisure activities and we therefore monitor closely brands grow online, as we deploy more technology into our clubs customer spending.
We are constantly looking to identify ways and as we move to a more cashless society, the balance between toimprove our offer so that we become our customers leisure our physical security resource requirements and our IT security destination of choice.
Macro-economic factors could also impede resource requirements will shift.
Our risk assessments undertaken our ability to secure new banking facilities when our existing during the year in this area have resulted in us increasing our facilities fall due for renewal in April 2012.
We maintain a ITsecurity resource and we will continue to monitor resourcing programme of active engagement with members of our banking requirements in the light of the changing nature of the syndicate and we check the bond and debt markets regularly for environments in which we operate.
availability so that we can move quickly should they show signs We have policies and procedures in place to safeguard our of tightening.
customer data and to respond swiftly to breaches and attempted C. 3 Audit committee and auditors breaches of our IT systems.
Systems penetration testing is carried out regularly and our IT policies and procedures are regularly The board should establish formal and transparent reviewed in the light of developments.
Following a risk review arrangements for considering how they should apply the earlier in the year, we are carrying out more rigorous due financial reporting and internal control principles and diligence exercises in relation to third party suppliers to our formaintaining an appropriate relationship with the online businesses.
External events Audit committee membership and meetings Customers may be prevented or deterred from accessing our The board has established an audit committee of four clubsdue to factors such as extreme weather, illness or disease independent non-executive directors.
A rolling agenda and epidemics, terrorist threats, strikes and public transport system topical items determine the committees discussions.
Whilst these matters are outside our direct sphere of Members of the audit committee are listed on page 43. influence, we have during the year under review, worked hard Theboard is satisfied that the majority of the committees toprepare ourselves better for such eventualities, particularly members has recent and relevant financial experience.
interms of co-ordinating with our interactive businesses and The chairman, chief executive, Group finance director, making sure that employees can get to work.
We learnt some company secretary and Group financial controller normally important lessons from the first heavy snowfall in early 2010 attend committee meetings, as do the external auditors.
which ensured that when the heavy snow fell again in November, The committee met formally three times in the year.
Its terms we were well prepared in terms of making the interiors and of reference are available from the Companys website at http: immediate exteriors of our premises as safe as possible for those www.
com downloads terms of reference tor audit of our customers and employees who were able to reach them.
pdf, or by writing to the company secretary.
Loss of licences Role of the audit committee Ranks gaming licences are fundamental to its operation and The audit committee assists the board in reviewing and therefore the loss of them would be catastrophic for Rank.
maintaining internal controls, the management of risk and Thisfact has fostered a heavily compliant culture within Rank.
ourcompliance with the law and regulation.
Rank has a dedicated compliance function that is independent It monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups ofoperations and a separate internal audit function that is internal audit function.
independent of both operations and the compliance function.
It also assesses the integrity of all public financial statements Rank maintains a strong and open relationship with the before their submission to the board, ensuring we present a fair Gambling Commission, the body responsible for regulating assessment of the Groups ongoing position and prospects.
commercial gambling in the United Kingdom.
Since entering the Any changes in accounting policies are authorised by the online gaming market, Rank has worked hard to build a similarly committee, which also reviews the objectivity and effectiveness strong and open relationship with the Alderney Gambling of our external auditors every year.
Control Commission, which is responsible for the regulation of The committee oversees the Companys internal code of eGambling in the States of Alderney.
Our responsible gambling conduct and monitors our whistle-blowing programme through and anti money laundering review committees meet quarterly which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about toreview topical issues, trends and statistics and their findings possible improprieties in areas of financial reporting, financial arereported to our audit committee.
We also have a director of control and other ethical matters.
security who is supported by an experienced security team who The committee is regularly updated on accounting and have built informal relationships with police forces in the areas legislative changes through briefing papers from the Group in which we operate so that if problems arise there are open finance director and others.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 50 Audit committee activity in 2010 When seeking external accountancy advice in relation to At its meetings in 2010 the committee examined the effectiveness non-audit matters, the Groups policy is to invite competitive of the Groups approach to: tenders where appropriate.
It is also the Groups policy to balance the need to maintain audit independence with the desirability assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of current and oftaking advice from the leading firm in the area of advice being emerging risk and the Groups risk management processes: sought and the desirability of being efficient.
internal control by approving the internal audit plan and Details of the years fees paid to Ernst & Young LLP are on reviewing its findings, reviewing the annual and interim page 84. financial statements, reviewing the reports of the external Auditor assessment auditors and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal In addition to a private meeting between the audit committee audit function: chair and the external audit partner, the committee meets with action plans to address any failings or weaknesses of internal the auditors following each audit committee meeting in a closed session without executive directors to assess the objectivity and control: and accuracy of financial reporting.
action plans to manage significant risks.
The committee generally reviews the external audit process This process has been in place during the year and up to thedate and the auditors performance at least annually, providing feedback to the auditors from management assessments.
In view of approval of the 2010 annual report and financial statements.
Ithas been reviewed by the board and meets the Internal Control of the fact that there was a change of auditors during the year, no review in respect of the outgoing auditor was undertaken and the Guidance for directors contained in the Combined Code.
review in respect of the incoming auditor will be undertaken Audit committee evaluation following completion of the 2010 year-end audit formalities.
The audit committees performance was assessed by questionnaire to members and other executives who have dealings with the Assurance committee in December 2010.
The board concluded that the The internal audit function and the external auditors presented committee continues to function effectively.
their findings to the committee in July and December 2010 and February 2011.
We confirm that action plans to remedy identified Auditors weaknesses in internal control and risk management have been At last years annual general meeting, shareholders approved the in place throughout the year.
appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors to the Group at Ernst & Young LLPs audit report is published on page 66. aremuneration to be agreed by the audit committee.
Ernst & Young LLP are willing to continue in office and a resolution D. Relations with shareholders thatthey be re-appointed at a remuneration to be agreed by the D. 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders audit committee will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole has Relations with external auditors responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with Our auditors are employed to express an opinion on the integrity shareholders takes place.
They review the systems of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial We speak with institutional shareholders and city analysts statements to the extent necessary to express opinion.
through a programme of investor relations and regular meetings They discuss with management the reporting of operational with principal shareholders.
results and the financial position of the Group, and present All directors receive reports to keep them in touch with findings to the audit committee.
During the year, a total of 62 meetings with 49shareholders were attended by one ormore of the chairman, Information senior independent director, chief executive and finance director.
The directors in office at the date of this report are not aware of Formal briefings on shareholder opinion are circulated to anyrelevant information that has not been made available to the theboard after presentation of the Companys interim and auditors and each director has taken steps to be aware of all such annual results.
information and to ensure it is available to the Companys auditors.
Since May 2010 the Group has circulated to institutional Non-audit work investors and other shareholders who have so requested, a The audit committee oversees the nature and amount of any monthly investor update newsletter covering broker research, non-audit work undertaken by the auditors to ensure they consensus forecasts, share price performance, business news and remainindependent.
Consequently, the committee is required to industry information.
approve in advance all non-audit services above a specified value.
In March 2010 each of the Companys then top seven In view of the fact that the size of the Group has diminished over institutional shareholders was contacted in order to discuss the recent years and the audit fee reduced accordingly, in December boards recommendation that two appointees of Ranks largest 2010 the committee resolved to reduce the level of fees for shareholder be elected to the board of Rank at the 2010 annual non-audit work which required its prior consent from 50,000 general meeting and to obtain their views in relation thereto.
these institutional shareholders were offered face-to-face meetings with the chairman to discuss the implications of the elections.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 51 Directors report: Corporate governance continued In addition, during 2010 one institutional shareholder availed For ease of reference we have provided below details of the pages itself of the opportunity to have a face-to-face meeting with within this annual report and financial statements where you will the chairman of our remuneration committee to discuss find many of the mandatory disclosures, all of which are remuneration issues relating to the Group.
Additionally, during incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of our the year, the remuneration committees advisors, Towers Watson, directors report: have consulted our major institutional shareholders via the Page number s Association of British Insurers and Risk Metrics Group on Accounting policies adopted 7279 matters relating to long-term incentives for executives.
Annual general meeting 52 The principal method of communicating with all our shareholders is via our corporate website, www.
Auditors disclosure of information to 51 Information can be provided in paper format but only when Auditors reappointment 51 shareholders specifically request this.
Board of directors 43 Shareholders may also use electronic means to vote or Business description Gatefold appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the annual and Business objectives, strategies and likely future othergeneral meetings of the Company.
developments 5-13 D. 2 Constructive use of the annual general meeting Business overseas locations 8, 19 & 24 The board should use the annual general meeting Business trends and factors 16-29 tocommunicate with investors and to encourage Change of control significant agreements 54 theirparticipation.
Change of control directors and employees All shareholders are welcome to attend our annual general compensation 54 meeting AGM.
Private investors are encouraged to ask Corporate responsibility: environment, employees questions following a summary business presentation of the and community 30-33 Groups results and development plans.
Critical contractual and other arrangements 54 The chairman and chief executive and chairmen of the audit, Directors appointment and retirement 46 & 47 remuneration, nominations and finance committees are all present.
Directors conflicts of interest 45 Shareholders are invited to vote on the formal resolutions Directors insurance and indemnity 45 contained in the notice of meeting, which is published at least Directors interests in shares and share incentive plans 53 & 64-65 20working days beforehand.
The business presentation, voting Directors responsibility statements 55 results and a summary of the questions and answers are made Dividends 35 & 90 available at www.
com, or in printed format on request.
DTR responsibility statements 55 Next AGM Employee communications and consultations 30 The 2011 annual general meeting will be held on 14 April 2011 and the full text of the notice of meeting, together Employee numbersGatefold & 118 with explanatory notes, is set out in a separate document at: Employees with disabilities 30 http: www.
com downloads agm nom 2011. pdf.
Equal opportunities 30 If you have elected for paper information, this will Financial instruments risk management 102-106 beenclosed with your hard copy of this annual report.
Financial performance and position 1, 34-35 Shareholders wishing to change that election may do so at any time by contacting the Companys registrar contact details are Going concern 37 & 72 on page 119 and on our website at http: www.
com Key performance indicators 5 investors shareholder faqs.
Political donations 55 Other disclosures Post balance sheet events 117 The Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-sized Principal risks and uncertainties 49-50 Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Profits 34 2008, the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Share capital 53 Liability Limitation Agreements Regulations 2008, the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance Shares company own share purchases 54 June 2008, the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules Shares rights, restrictions, obligations and variations 54 andthe Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Significant shareholders 53 Transparency Rules DTR contain mandatory disclosure Suppliers payment policy and practice 54 requirements in relation to this annual report in respect of theyear ended 31 December 2010.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 52 Share capital 8 The Companys authorised share capital at 31 December 2010 was 180m, divided into 1,296,000,000 ordinary shares of 13 p each.
9 The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
There were 390,529,314 shares in issue at the year-end, which were held by 19,085 registered shareholders.
Distribution of registered shareholders Total number of registered Total number % of issued Range shareholders % of holders of shares share capital 1 1,000 14,599 76.49% 3,788,288 0.97% 1,001 5,000 3,650 19.13% 7,463,207 1.91% 5,001 10,000 360 1.89% 2,543,690 0.65% 10,001 100,000 330 1.73% 10,535,111 2.70% 100,001 1,000,000 107 0.56% 34,882,577 8.93% 1,000,000 and above 39 0.20% 331,316,441 84.84% Totals 19,085 100.00% 390,529,314 100.00% Significant shareholders The following interests of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to ordinary shares have been notified to the Company in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules the DTRs.
Due to the fact that the DTRs only require notification where the percentage voting rights reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and each 1% threshold above 3%, there is a difference between disclosures made pursuant to the DTRs and those disclosed on our website at http: www.
jsp which are based on responses to s. 793 Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 notices issued by the Company.
For ease of reference, we have included below voting rights in respect of both DTRs disclosures and s. 793 CA 2006 responses up to and including the date of this report.
As per FSA DTRs As per s. 793 CA 2006 disclosures enquiry responses Date last notified Shareholder % held Voting rights % held Voting rights 17.11.2009 Hong Leong Co. Malaysia Berhad 29.02% 113,313,388 29.25% 114,235,699 07.02.2008 Genting Berhad 11.03% 43,092,136 11.59% 45,251,203 15.02.2010 BlackRock, Inc. 4.92% 19,238,527 4.39% 17,134,549 08.11.2010 Prudential Plc 4.56% 17,816,710 4.56% 17,816,710 21.11.2008 Legal & General Group plc 3.99% 15,602,161 3.63% 14,193,720 23.10.2009 Aviva plc 3.02% 11,805,912 3.46% 13,495,678 22.02.2011 Mr Cheng Fu Zay 3.00% 11,718,122 2.70% 10,545,207 Directors interests in shares 8 Ordinary 13 9p shares as at 8 31 Dec 10 Ordinary 13 9p and as at shares as at Name 24 Feb 11 01 Jan 10 Chairman Peter Johnson 57,260 48,334 Executive directors Ian Burke 260,553 160,553 Paddy Gallagher 160,000 160,000 Independent non-executive directors Richard Greenhalgh 37,564 30,511 Owen ODonnell 17,022 11,674 Bill Shannon 35,394 28,976 John Warren 46,099 38,517 Non-independent non-executive directors Tim Scoble Mike Smith The Rank Group Employee Benefit Trust The Trust holds shares to satisfy the vesting of long-term incentive plan awards.
Executive directors are deemed to have an interest in 8 the ordinary shares of the Company held by the Trust.
As at each of 1 January 2010, 31 December 2010 and the date of this report, the Trust held 1,059,826 ordinary 13 p shares.
9 The non-independent non-executive directors are appointees of Guoco Group Limited, a parent company of Ranks largest shareholder, which owns 114,235,699 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 29.25% of voting rights.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 53 Directors report: Corporate governance continued Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Directors other powers Voting rights Subject to legislation, the directors may exercise all the powers Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general permitted by the Companys memorandum and articles of meetings of the Company.
A copy of these can be obtained by writing to thecompany secretary, or from Companies House.
Meeting rights Registered holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and The articles contain provisions to empower the directors oncertain specific matters, including: speak at general meetings and to appoint proxies.
Information rights appointment of directors, subject to subsequent Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys shareholder approval: annual report and financial statements.
delegation of powers to a director, secretary or committee Share transfer restrictions ofone or more persons: There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares the Companys powers to borrow money: and contained in the Companys articles of association.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between the ability of a director to vote on matters in which he has theholders of Rank shares that may result in restrictions on aninterest.
thetransfer of shares or that may result in restrictions on Changes to the Companys articles of association can only be voting rights.
made by a resolution passed by a majority of no less than 75% Variation of rights ofshareholders.
Subject to applicable legislation, the rights attached to Ranks Change of control ordinary shares may be varied with the written consent of the Our principal loan term and credit facility agreement contains holders of at least three quarters in nominal value of those shares, aprovision that, on a change of control of Rank, immediate or by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the repayment can be demanded of all advances and any ordinary shareholders.
Directors powers in relation to shares We have arrangements with one employee to provide Allotment and issue of shares compensation for loss of employment in the event of a change Subject to the provisions of the CA 2006, and subject to any ofcontrol at Rank, should no suitable role be offered by a resolution passed by the Company pursuant to the CA 2006 new owner.
andother shareholder rights, shares in Rank may be issued with The provisions of the Companys share schemes and such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary incentive plans may cause options and awards granted to resolution decide.
If there is no such resolution or so far as the employees to vest in the event of a takeover.
Company does not make specific provision, they may be issued A change of control may also affect licences to operate, as as Ranks board of directors may decide.
Subject to the Companys specified in the provisions of the Gambling Act 2005 and the articles of association, the CA 2006 and other shareholder rights, Alderney eGambling Regulations 2009 and the Belgian Games unissued shares are at the disposal of the board.
The Company currently has no shareholder authority to allot Critical contractual and other arrangements and grant rights over any proportion of the Companys unissued We assess and record any risks in our dealings with major share capital, nor does it have shareholders authority to allot suppliers as part of the Groups overall risk management process.
andgrant rights over ordinary shares without first making a Contingency plans are in place to deal with events should key prorata offer to all existing ordinary shareholders.
Neither of supply arrangements be terminated without due warning.
these authorities is required for the purpose of allotting shares Our procurement team also reviews the financial health of pursuant to employee share schemes.
Since the board has no our main suppliers.
We have concluded that, while unexpected present intention of allotting shares for any other reason, these termination of any of the Groups major contractors would be shareholder authorities will not be sought at the forthcoming disruptive, it would not have a severe adverse effect.
Suppliers payment policy and practice Market purchases of own shares Ranks individual businesses and intermediate holding companies The Company currently has no shareholder authority to make agree terms and conditions for business transactions with their market purchases of its own shares and it has no present respective suppliers.
Payments are made to suppliers once they intention of making any such purchases.
Therefore the Company have met these terms and conditions.
does not intend to seek such authority at the forthcoming annual At 31 December 2010 the Group had an average of 38 days general meeting.
purchases owed to trade creditors 2009: 35.
The Company is the holding company of the Rank group ofcompanies and as such has no trade creditors.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 54 Charitable donations confirm that the financial statements comply with International In 2010 we made, or committed, charitable donations in the UK Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European of 360,000 2009: 315,000, of which the largest was 306,000 Union: and 2009: 267,000 to The GREaT Foundation.
prepare the financial statements for both the Company and the Further information can be found in the corporate Group on the going concern basis, unless it is appropriate to responsibility section of this report, pages 30 to 33. presume that the Group will not continue in business, inwhich Political donations case there should be supporting assumptions orqualifications.
We made no political donations during the year.
The directors confirm that they have complied with all It has been Ranks long-standing practice not to make cash of the above.
payments to political parties and the board intends that this will remain the case.
However, the CA 2006 is very broadly drafted Accounting records and could catch activities such as funding seminars and other The directors must keep proper accounting records that disclose functions to which politicians are invited, supporting certain with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position bodies involved in policy review and law reform and matching ofthe Company and the Group and ensure that the financial employees donations to certain charities.
Accordingly, as in statements and the directors remuneration report comply previous years, the directors will be seeking shareholders withthe Companies Act 2006 and, for the Group financial authority for political donations and political expenditure at statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard theforthcoming annual general meeting in case any of Ranks IAS Regulation.
activities are inadvertently caught by the legislation.
Safeguarding assets The directors are also accountable for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, therefore, for taking reasonable Responsibility statements under steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate website theDTR The maintenance and integrity of Ranks corporate website, on Each of the directors named on page 43 confirms that to the best which this annual report and financial statements are published, of his knowledge: is the boards responsibility.
We would draw attention to the fact that legislation in the UK on the preparation andpublication the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as offinancial statements may differ from other jurisdictions.
adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company By order of the board and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the directors report which incorporates the Group operating and financial review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the risks and Frances Bingham uncertainties that they face.
Company secretary 24 February 2011 Directors responsibility statements Annual report and financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, thedirectors remuneration report and the financial statements of the Group and the Company, in accordance with the law.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The financial statements must give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of profit or loss for the period.
To prepare the financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2010 55
