Corporate governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE strategy, carries out an advisory and supervisory Mr Day is a Non-Executive Director of WPP role and accepts ultimate responsibility for the Group plc and from October 2010 of AMEC The Combined Code conduct of the Companys business.
This is non-compliant with the provisions The Company has prepared this report Executive Officer CEO, together with the other of the Code which require that no full time with reference to the Combined Code on members of his Executive Committee, provides Executive Director should hold more than Corporate Governance issued by the Financial the day-to-day management of the Company.
one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 Reporting Council FRC as revised in June company.
Both WPP Group plc and AMEC 2008 the Code.
The Company recognises The Board has a formal schedule of matters plc are FTSE 100 companies.
The Board was the importance of high standards of corporate specifically referred to it for decision including: satisfied that Colin Day was able to, and did, governance.
As a company listed on the Takeover offers and the response to any devote sufficient time to the business of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is takeover approach: Company notwithstanding the fact that he held required to comply or explain its application Significant acquisitions, disposals and capital two non-executive directorships during part of the principles set out in Section 1 of expenditure projects: of 2010. the Code.
Final approval of annual budgets and corporate plans: The Company announced on 22 October The Company understands and supports Approval of financial statements and 2010 that Colin Day was leaving the Company the main principles set out in the Code.
shareholder communications: and he resigned as a Director and the CFO The ways in which the Company applies Treasury policies and significant changes of the Company on 8 February 2011.
On 23 these principles and the few provisions with to borrowing facilities or foreign currency November 2010, the Company announced the which the Company does not consider that transactions: and appointment of Liz Doherty as the new CFO.
it is appropriate to comply, are set out in the Risk management policies.
Liz Doherty joined the Company in January relevant sections of this report together with 2011 for a handover period with Colin Day.
Liz the Report of the Directors on pages 13 to 16, This schedule is reviewed annually and was last Doherty was formally appointed as a Director and the Directors Remuneration Report on reviewed and updated in November 2010 as and CFO on 8 February 2011 and she will offer pages 22 to 28. part of the performance evaluations conducted herself for election at this years AGM.
The agendas for Except as specifically set out in relevant sections Board meetings are initially developed by the Adrian Bellamy and Peter Harf have each served of this Corporate Governance report, the Board Chief Executive and the Company Secretary on the Board for more than nine years and considers that the Company was compliant and are finalised by the Chairman.
are therefore obliged to offer themselves for with the provisions, and applied the main re-election on an annual basis in accordance principles of Section 1 of the Code throughout The Chairman and the Chief Executive with the Code.
The other Directors required to the year ended 31 December 2010 and as at There is a clear division of responsibilities offer themselves for re-election at this years the date of this Annual Report.
between the Chairman and the CEO.
The AGM are Bart Becht and Graham Mackay Chairman is responsible for the overall The UK Corporate Governance Code who both retire by rotation in accordance operation, leadership and governance of the Following the Walker Review and the FRCs with the provisions of the Articles and, being Board.
He is also responsible for ensuring review of the Code, the new UK Corporate eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The that all members of the Board develop Governance Code the UK Code was Chairman and each Non-Executive Director an understanding of the views of major published in 2010 and replaces the Code for have provided assurance that they remain shareholders and that there is an open dialogue accounting periods beginning on or after fully committed to their respective roles and with shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for all 29 June 2010.
The UK Code identifies a can dedicate the necessary amount of time to executive management of the Groups business, number of changes designed to reinforce attend to the Companys business.
In addition, consistent with the strategy and commercial Board quality, the focus on risk and to improve the performance evaluation undertaken by objectives agreed by the Board.
the Board was rigorous and transparent to Directors appointment, independence ensure that each of the Directors submitting Although the UK Code is not applicable to and re-election themselves for re-election at this years AGM the Company until the financial year ending The Board comprises eight Non-Executive remain able to properly undertake their duties.
December 2011, the Board is considering the Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the changes appropriate to its own corporate Directors conflicts of interest Chairman, and two Executive Directors, Bart governance arrangements to ensure that it The Company has procedures in place to deal Becht, the CEO, and Colin Day, the Chief remains able to comply with or explain clearly with conflicts of interest.
The Nomination Financial Officer CFO until 8 February 2011 any divergences from the UK Code.
The Board Committee under its terms of reference is and Liz Doherty, CFO from 8 February 2011. has noted the new recommendation that all responsible for the Companys procedures for Information regarding the Directors of the directors of FTSE 350 companies be put up for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest and Company who were serving on 31 December re-election annually but is also conscious of these procedures have operated effectively 2010 and those serving at the date of this the fact that this recommendation does not during the year.
A register of Directors conflicts report is set out on page 12.
Additional currently enjoy universal support from investor is maintained by the Company Secretary and biographical details of all Directors are available bodies.
Half of the Board will be up for reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The from the Companys website.
election or re-election at the AGM on 5 May Board is aware of the other commitments 2011 and the Company will continue to The Board has identified Graham Mackay as of its Directors and any changes to these monitor the situation to ensure its compliance the Senior Independent Director in accordance commitments are reported to the Board.
The majority of NonBoard meetings and information Executive Directors excluding the Chairman BOARD ORGANISATION AND In 2010, there were five regular Board meetings are independent as recommended by the EFFECTIVENESS and seven additional meetings held either by Code.
The Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, was telephone conference or by written resolution.
The role of and matters reserved for independent on appointment.
Peter Harf, the There were three Audit Committee meetings, the Board Deputy Chairman, is a shareholder nominated three Remuneration Committee meetings plus The Board leads and controls the Groups Director and therefore was not independent three additional meetings dealt with by written business and its powers are set out in the on appointment.
resolution and three Nomination Committee Companys Articles of Association Articles, Warren Tucker was appointed as an meetings.
Written resolutions are required which are available on the Companys website.
independent Non-Executive Director on to be signed by all Directors on the Board or The Company has adopted a Board structure 24 February 2010 and elected as a Director at Members on the Committee.
Attendance by which is similar to that of its key international the Companys AGM on 6 May 2010. individual Directors at scheduled Board competitor companies, the majority of which and Committee meetings is given in the are based in the USA.
The Board approves table overleaf.
Reckitt Benckiser 2010 17 Corporate governance report continued Number of meetings attended during 2010 Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 5 3 3 Bart Becht 5 3 Richard Cousins 5 3 Colin Day a 5 Peter Harf 5 3 Kenneth Hydon 5 3 3 Andr Lacroix 5 3 Graham Mackay 5 3 Judith Sprieser 5 3 3 Warren Tucker b 2 2 Notes a Colin Day resigned as a director of the Company on 8 February 2011.
Liz Doherty joined the Company in January 2011 as CFO designate and was formally appointed to the Board on 8 February 2011 and she has attended the one Board meeting held so far in 2011. b Warren Tucker joined the Board on 24 February 2010 and attended all Audit Committee meetings and two of the four Board meetings held in 2010 following his appointment.
Board meetings are structured to allow open are also expected to take responsibility for Directors and, in addition to this review process, discussion.
The Board meets a minimum of identifying their own individual needs and to the Chairman carried out an evaluation of five times a year and constitutes additional take the necessary steps to ensure that they the performance of individual Directors by meetings as necessary to consider specific are adequately informed about the Group and separate interviews with each Director.
The matters which it has reserved to itself for their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board performance of the CEO and of other members decision, such as significant acquisition is confident that all its members have the of the Executive Committee is also regularly or disposal proposals or major financing knowledge, ability and experience to perform reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman holds a session the functions required of a director of a The Board considers that it was best placed to with other Non-Executive Directors at the listed company.
carry out the performance evaluations for the conclusion of each formal Board meeting 2010 financial year, without the need to employ Each Director has access to the Company without the Executive Directors present.
the services of an outside consultancy, and Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that it was an appropriate and cost-effective The Executive Committee presents an annual that Board procedures are followed and that procedure.
The Board is aware of the new strategic review and the annual Corporate Plan the Company complies with all applicable requirement in the UK Code for performance through the CEO to the Board for its approval.
rules, regulations and obligations governing evaluations to be externally facilitated Actual performance against the Corporate Plan the Companys operations.
Furthermore, once every three years and it will keep this is presented to the Board at each of its regular a procedure exists for Directors to take requirement under review with a view to either meetings and any changes to forecasts as a independent professional advice at the complying or explaining its non-compliance at result of current performance are reviewed.
Companys expense in furtherance of the appropriate time.
All members of the Board receive timely reports EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT on items arising at meetings of the Board Performance evaluation The Executive Directors, together with certain to enable them to give due consideration During the year, the Board carried out a formal other Group functional heads and Area to such items in advance of the meetings.
and rigorous evaluation of its performance, Executive Vice Presidents meet monthly as the Those Directors who were unable to attend that of its committees and those of individual Executive Committee under the chairmanship a particular meeting during the year had the Directors to assess such performance with of the CEO.
The members of the Executive opportunity to review and raise any issues on a view to improving the effectiveness of the Committee are appointed to the Committee by the relevant briefing papers.
Additionally, each Board and its committees and the Groups the CEO.
Biographical details of the members of member of the Board has immediate access to overall performance.
the Executive Committee are set out on a dedicated online team room and can access Following a review of the results of an internally page 12. relevant Company information including all generated questionnaire, Board members Board and Committee papers.
The Executive Committee manages the dayengaged in a structured debate to evaluate to-day operations of the Company.
Individual Induction and training the Boards performance.
The evaluation Executive Committee members hold global Non-Executive Directors receive appropriate and discussion focused on key themes and a responsibility for specific operating functions briefings on the Company and its operations small number of actions were identified.
The including category development, supply, sales, around the world on appointment to the Board.
performance review of the Board undertaken finance and legal, information services and Whenever the opportunity presents itself, they in 2010 concluded that the Chairman and human resources.
The three Area Executive Vice are encouraged to visit the Companys offices other Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient Presidents covering Europe, North America and factories for briefings on the local business time to the Company.
The Board maintains Australia and Developing Markets are also operations.
The Board endeavours to hold one an ongoing review of its procedures and its members of the Committee.
There is no EVP for meeting each year at one of the Companys effectiveness and those of its committees Pharmaceuticals as management reports directly operating units.
Full, formal and tailored induction processes Graham Mackay, the Senior Independent COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD are put in place for appointments to the Director, conducted an evaluation of the The Company has established three Board, with built-in flexibility to allow the Chairmans performance in conjunction with his Committees of the Board Audit, Remuneration, new Directors to have input to their induction Non-Executive Director colleagues with input Nomination, the terms of reference of which process so that areas of particular interest to from the Executive Directors.
The Nomination are available on the Companys website and on each Director can be accommodated.
As well as Committee has primary responsibility for request to the Company Secretary.
planned development and briefings, Directors reviewing the performance of individual 18 Reckitt Benckiser 2010 Report of the Directors Audit Committee Groups external auditors and the Groups Vice annually as part of the overall corporate The Audit Committee comprises three President, Internal Audit, attend meetings and governance evaluation process and more Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth have regular private meetings with and direct frequently as circumstances may require.
Hydon, Chairman since 16 November 2006, access to the Committee.
The Committee will recommend to the Andr Lacroix and Warren Tucker.
Kenneth Board whether a conflict or potential conflict Remuneration Committee Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, was CFO of should be approved.
The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and Warren Judith Sprieser, meets regularly to review The principal activities of the Nomination Tucker is CFO of Cobham plc.
Therefore, remuneration policy for the Directors and Committee during the year were: they both have recent and relevant financial senior executives and also has responsibility experience.
The Committee: the review of individual Directors for making decisions on the Chairmans performance: monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of remuneration.
The Committee comprises four the system of internal control: members, of whom three, Judith Sprieser, the consideration of potential non-executive Graham Mackay and Richard Cousins, directors and the appointment of Warren reviews compliance procedures and the are considered independent under the Tucker as a Non-Executive Director: and Groups overall risk framework including the Code.
Adrian Bellamy was independent on Groups whistleblowing arrangements : the consideration of Colin Days successor as appointment but has served on the Board for CFO leading to the appointment of considers reports on Internal Audits more than nine years.
The Board considers Liz Doherty.
activities, significant legal claims and that Mr Bellamy should remain a member of regulatory issues: the Remuneration Committee in light of his In respect of the appointment of Warren Tucker considerable experience and much valued to the Board during the year, the recruitment reviews the interim and full year financial contribution to the workings of the Committee.
process included the development of a candidate statements before submission to the It is acceptable for the Chairman to sit on the profile and the engagement of an external full Board: Remuneration Committee under the Code.
search consultant specialising in the recruitment makes recommendations to the Board of high calibre non-executive directors.
Reports Members of the Remuneration Committee regarding the auditors and their terms of on potential appointees were provided to the and any person attending its meetings do not appointment: and Committee which, after careful consideration, participate in any discussion or decision on their made a recommendation to the Board.
reviews and monitors the external auditors own remuneration.
Additional information on independence and services supplied and the the Committee and its activities is set out in the In respect of the appointment of Liz Doherty objectivity and the effectiveness of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 22 as CFO designate with effect from January audit process.
2011 and her appointment to the Board with effect from 8 February 2011, a detailed role  LLP and its Nomination Committee profile was agreed by the Committee before predecessor firms have been the Groups The Nomination Committee comprises the an external search consultant was engaged auditors since the merger of Reckitt & Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the to prepare a shortlist of potentially suitable Colman plc and Benckiser NV in 1999, and CEO, the Deputy Chairman and the Chairs of candidates.
Only after a rigorous interview the Companys auditors since its formation in both the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
process was the appointment recommended to 2007.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, The Board believes that this membership is the Board.
the relationship with the auditors works well appropriate to the Group despite it not being and the Committee remains satisfied with in compliance with the Code requirement that COMPANY SECRETARY their independence and effectiveness.
It has, a majority of the members be independent.
The Company Secretary is responsible for accordingly, not considered it necessary to Adrian Bellamy was independent on ensuring that the correct Board procedures are require the firm to tender for the audit work.
appointment but has served on the Board for followed and advises the Board on corporate It is a requirement that the audit partner more than nine years.
Peter Harf has served governance matters.
All Directors have access responsible for the Group audit is rotated on the Board for more than nine years and, to the advice and services of the Company every five years and the current lead audit as a shareholder nominated director, was not Secretary and her appointment and removal is partner has been in place since 2008.
Bart Becht is not one of the matters reserved to the Board.
are no contractual obligations restricting the considered independent because he is the CEO.
INTERNAL CONTROL Companys choice of external auditors.
The Nomination Committee provides a formal The Board acknowledges that it has overall The Committee met three times in 2010.
For a and transparent procedure for the appointment responsibility for the Groups system of internal period following the resignation of David Tyler of new Directors to the Board.
The Committee: control and for reviewing its effectiveness, in September 2009, the constitution of the and it has established a control structure keeps the composition of the Board and Committee was non-compliant with the Code designed to manage the achievement of succession to it under review: as it had only two Independent Non-Executive business objectives.
The system complies with Directors as members.
It became compliant makes recommendations to the Board on the Turnbull guidance on internal control again upon the appointment of Warren Tucker the appointment of additional Directors and provides reasonable, but not absolute, as a Committee member in February 2010. having regard to the balance and structure assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee received regular technical of the Board and the required blend of skills Throughout the year the Group has had in updates from the external auditors to keep and experience: place an ongoing process for evaluating the abreast of changes in financial reporting and makes recommendations to the Board system of internal control and identifying and governance matters.
In addition to its routine concerning the re-appointment of any managing risk, including in relation to the agenda, the Committee received additional Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of financial reporting process and the preparation presentations from senior management his or her specified term and the re-election of consolidated accounts.
The basis for the covering the Information Services, Internal of any Director by shareholders under the preparation of consolidated accounts is as set Audit, Group Tax and Group Treasury functions.
retirement provisions of the Articles.
No out on page 34 under Accounting Policies.
The Committee took advantage of a Board Director is involved in determining his or her meeting held overseas to meet with, and With regard to financial reporting and the own re-appointment or re-election: and receive a presentation from, the local finance preparation of consolidated accounts, the Group director to better understand how Group has primary responsibility for considering Finance function has in place a series of policies, policies are embedded in local operations.
The Directors conflicts of interest.
The practices and controls which are designed to CFO and other senior management attend Committee considers the Directors other ensure the identification and communication Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
The directorships and appointments at least of changes in accounting standards, and Reckitt Benckiser 2010 19 Corporate governance report continued reconciliation of core financial systems.
The of business objectives and the Board independence.
The Board recognises that in function consists of consolidation and financial reviews those significant risks which might certain circumstances the nature of the advice accounting teams and technical support impact on the achievement of corporate required may make it more timely and costwhich comprises senior finance managers objectives.
Mitigating controls, together effective to appoint the external auditors who review external technical developments with any necessary actions, are identified who already have a good understanding of and accounting policy issues.
In addition, the and implemented.
A summary of the most the Group.
Group Finance function maintains an up-to-date significant risks faced by the Group is included The external auditors report to the Audit Group Accounting Procedures Manual and sets in the Business Review on pages 6 and 7.
Committee on the actions they take to comply formal requirements with business unit finance Operating unit controls each operating with professional and regulatory requirements functions which specify the standard reports and unit maintains a system of internal control, and with best practice designed to ensure approvals required by the Group.
which is appropriate to its own business their independence from the Group, including Management is required to apply judgement environment.
Such controls must be in periodic rotation of the lead audit engagement in evaluating the risks the Group faces in accordance with Group policies and include partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out achieving its objectives, in determining the management authorisation processes, to in note 4 on page 41. risks that are considered acceptable to bear, in ensure that all commitments on behalf of RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned the Group are entered into after appropriate The Board is committed to effective materialising, in identifying the Groups ability approval.
In particular, there is a structured communication between the Company and its to reduce the incidence and impact on the process for the appraisal and authorisation of shareholders.
The Executive Directors, with the business of risks that do materialise and in all material capital projects.
Director of Investor Relations, meet regularly ensuring that the costs of operating particular Monitoring the effectiveness of the system with institutional shareholders and financial controls are proportionate to the benefit.
of internal control is monitored regularly analysts, in Europe and North America, to The Groups control environment is supported through a combination of management discuss matters relating to the Companys by a Code of Conduct, on which employees review, self-assessment and internal and business strategy and current performance.
receive training annually, and a range of external audit.
The results of external and The Board receives regular monthly reports policies on corporate responsibility.
Other key internal audit reviews are reported to and from the CEO which include updates on share elements within the internal control structure considered by the Audit Committee, and price developments, major buyers and sellers of are summarised as follows: actions are taken to address significant shares, investors views and analysts reports on control matters identified.
The Audit the industry and on the Company specifically.
The Board and management the Board Committee also approves annual internal Feedback on presentations and roadshow continues to approve strategy and performs audit plans and is responsible for performing meetings with institutional investors is an advisory and supervisory role with the the ongoing review of the system of internal presented to the Executive Directors following day-to-day management of the Company control on behalf of the Board.
twice-yearly roadshows in Europe and North being undertaken by the CEO supported by America.
The investor relations programme the Executive Committee.
The CEO and other The Board confirms that reviews of the includes: Executive Committee members have clearly appropriateness and effectiveness of the system communicated the Groups vision, strategy, of internal control throughout the financial year formal presentations of full year and interim operating constitutions, values and business and up to the date of approval of the Annual results and quarterly trading statements: objectives across the Group.
Report and Accounts have been satisfactorily regular meetings between institutional completed in compliance with provision C. 2.1 Organisational structure the Group investors and senior management to ensure of the Code.
In particular major risks have been operates four Area management that the investor community receives a identified and ongoing monitoring procedures organisations covering Europe, North balanced and complete view of the Groups are in place.
America Australia, Developing Markets and performance, the issues faced by the Group Pharmaceuticals, and centralised functions Due to the short time period between the and any issues of concern to the investors: covering category development, supply, completion of the acquisition of SSL on 29 responding to enquiries from institutional sales, finance and legal, information services October 2010 and the end of the financial year, shareholders through the Companys investor and human resources.
Throughout the actions are still in progress to align systems relations team and from retail shareholders organisation, the achievement of business and internal policies and procedures, including through the Company Secretarys team: and objectives and the establishment of risk management procedures, with those of appropriate risk management and internal the Group.
Management will work towards a section dedicated to shareholders on the control systems and processes are embedded ensuring full alignment with the Groups Companys website.
in the responsibilities of line executives.
systems, internal policies and procedures during The Chairman is available to discuss governance the year ending 31 December 2011.
Budgeting there is an annual planning and strategy with major shareholders should process whereby detailed operating budgets The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and such a dialogue be requested.
During the for the following financial year are prepared the information is included on page 15. year the Chairman met with shareholders and and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term reported upon these meetings to the Directors.
AUDITORS AND AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE business plans are also prepared and are The Company believes that it is important Following a recommendation by the Audit reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
that it makes key executives available, along Committee and in accordance with s. 489 with the Senior Independent Director, if Management reporting there is a of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing the required, to discuss matters of concern with comprehensive system of management reappointment of  its shareholders.
The Companys AGM is used reporting.
The financial performance of LLP as the Groups auditors will be put to the as the main opportunity for the Directors to operating units and the Group as a whole shareholders at the AGM.
The Group does not communicate with private investors.
The AGM is monitored against budget on a monthly indemnify its external auditors.
is attended by the Companys Directors and all basis and is updated by periodic forecasts.
The Group has a formal policy in place shareholders present are given the opportunity Area and functional executives also to safeguard auditor independence.
The to question the Chairman and the Board as well perform regular business reviews with their Audit Committee and the CFO keep the as the chairmen of the Board committees.
management teams, which incorporate an independence and objectivity of the external assessment of key risks and opportunities.
GOING CONCERN auditors under review.
The Committee reviews The going concern statement required by the Risk management as part of the ongoing the nature and level of non-audit services Listing Rules and the Code is set out in the risk and control process, operating units undertaken by the external auditors each year Statement of Directors responsibilities on review and evaluate risks to the achievement to satisfy itself that there is no effect on their page 21.
