About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Audit Committee 5.
A review of the effectiveness of the external audit process: Key business activities including finance, land acquisition, product The key features of the Groups internal controls are as design, procurement and information technology are controlled 6.
A review of the effectiveness and structure of Internal Audit: follows: by the Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a 7.
A review of Internal Audit programmes of work.
Committee defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as members receive an Executive summary of each internal authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and audit report: staff recruitment: 8.
Consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
The A comprehensive prioritised risk register which is regularly going concern review: Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and functional heads reviewed: of department meet monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, 9.
A review of internal controls across the whole business: and risks and opportunities.
The operating companies hold monthly The Groups management information systems provide 10.
A review of the Groups Whistleblowing policy.
board meetings which are attended on a rotational basis by the weekly updates on key statistics and information in Executive Directors.
The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which respect of sales and production and the content of these enables employees and other stakeholders e. g subcontractors, to weekly reports is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains The Group formally reviews its prioritised risk register.
In addition, raise concerns in confidence.
The Audit Committee has arranged appropriate: Current Members of the Audit Committee the Executive Board, through its regular meetings, reviews key to receive reports on all occasions when such issues are raised Redrow has an in-house health and safety department areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the under this policy.
and places great emphasis on the importance of health Paul Hampden Smith, Chairman pictured internal controls identified in relation to those risks remain and safety and environmental management.
Alan Jackson Due to the current members of the Audit Committee being department works closely with the operating companies Debbie Hewitt appointed on 19 August 2009, the Audit Committee considered it to ensure that training is provided to employees and Insurance, Risk Management and Internal Audit inappropriate to undertake a review of Audit Committee subcontractors, best practice is shared and appropriate The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on and effectiveness until they had experienced a full Audit Committee actions are taken to comply with heath and safety best co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and they liaise cycle.
As a result, a review of Audit Committee effectiveness will The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing practice and legislation throughout the organisation: take place at the 4 November 2010 meeting.
closely with appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office and the Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and within the subsidiaries and report directly to the Group Finance The Board requires each Director in its operating work of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal Director.
Audit Independence subsidiaries to complete an annual statement on control processes.
The terms of reference of the Committee,  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in Corporate Governance and related party transactions.
The which are in compliance with the Combined Code, are kept under Redrow has a fully embedded risk management process.
A risk 2003 having succeeded  who were statement is designed to provide assurance that Group review.
The current audit partner was first appointed register with risks appropriately ranked is maintained and is policies and procedures are being implemented and in respect of the financial year ended June 2005.
Given the regularly reviewed and updated using a leading accredited complied with in all material respects.
In addition, key All the members of the Committee are independent and the external risk management software tool.
The risk register is significant change in composition of the Board of Directors since functional directors complete a Principal Controls Self Board believes the Committee has the appropriate level of formally considered by the Board at least once per annum.
30 June 2009, subsequent to the finalisation of the Financial Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board expertise to fulfil its terms of reference.
Statements for the year ended 30 June 2009 the Audit to assist in improvements in the control framework: Committee requested and PwC agreed to an extension to the During the year internal audit work was outsourced to RSM The Committee held four meetings during the financial year A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and tenure of the audit partner.
Consequently the audit partner Tenon, Chartered Accountants, who carried out a broad ended June 2010 and holds further meetings as appropriate.
The reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary programme of internal audit work using a risk based approach.
scheduled to rotate off following the conclusion of the 30 June Group Finance Director was invited and attended each meeting board meetings which includes consolidated or subsidiary RSM Tenon provided a designated Audit Manager to ensure a 2009 audit has continued to act as audit partner for one further as did the external Auditors.
On each occasion the Committee year, the year ended 30 June 2010, in order to provide continuity management accounts as appropriate.
Annual budgets are consistent quality of internal audit work whilst being able to use had the opportunity to meet the external Auditors without any and support the maintenance of the audit quality.
The Audit set and forecasts prepared, with actual performance staff having the appropriate level of experience and qualification Executive Director being present.
Committee have approved the appointment of the new Audit compared against the annual budget and updated for the particular audit programmes undertaken.
RSM Tenon have the facility to have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Partner from PwC who is due to start his position following the forecasts: The Committee receives regular updates on changes to conclusion of the 30 June 2010 audit.
Day to day accountability lies directly to the Group accounting standards and best practice in financial reporting and The financial reporting process includes control and Finance Director.
The Committee invites other individuals to reconciliation processes which ensure there is an audit trail The Audit Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work attend the meetings to provide technical support and advice as between the Groups underlying financial reporting systems of the external Auditors.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure The internal audit strategy is discussed and agreed with the Audit appropriate.
In addition, individual members are encouraged to and the Groups financial statements: Committee and PwC.
Suggested control improvements and any that the Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by attend external seminars and courses on areas relevant to their A policy and procedures manual which covers all the control weaknesses identified are followed up as appropriate.
ensuring both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken membership of the Committee.
and the level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes position.
Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the the systems and controls that are to be applied: and During the year, the Group reviewed the effectiveness and The Audit Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its meetings, including: prior approval of the Audit Committee within an established structure of its internal audit processes.
As a result, the Group Daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying budget.
In addition, no work can be undertaken by the external decided it was now appropriate going forward for internal audit significant payments are prepared, 13 week rolling 1.
Reviews of the 2009 10 half-yearly and full year 2009 10 Auditors in any area where there is any identifiable risk that the to be provided by internal resources to take advantage of cashflow forecasts are prepared and forecast banking results including the Annual Report and Accounts: work of an individual within the external audit firm or the industry specific knowledge and experience and for this to be covenant compliance is regularly tested.
Reviews of the results of the 2008 09 external audit and the external audit firm generally could conflict or compromise the supplemented by external resources where specialist expertise is results of the half-yearly review of the results for the six quality, objectivity or independence of any audit or compliance required e. g I. T. work undertaken for the Group.
months to December 2009, together with a review of the Internal Controls 2009 10 external audit plan and associated fees: The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the During the year ended 30 June 2010, the Company undertook a Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its 3.
A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting Rights Issue and PwC were engaged by the Company to provide effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process, which has been in Paul Hampden Smith policies: the report on working capital required as part of this process.
place for the whole year, for identifying, evaluating and managing Chairman of the Audit Committee 4.
A review of the independence and objectivity of the external The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company nor significant risks.
However, in reviewing the effectiveness of 8 September 2010 Auditors: has the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
internal control, such systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Page 32 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 33
