About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Corporate Governance statement Governance Framework On 14 September 2009, Colin Lewis resigned as an Executive All Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year ended Details of internal control and risk management processes are The Board is committed to complying with corporate governance Director.
30 June 2010 were considered to be independent.
included in the Audit Committee report on pages 32 to 33. guidelines and to maintaining high standards of corporate On 18 January 2010, Barbara Richmond was appointed as an governance.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Board balance and independence Executive Director.
Committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, The Financial Reporting Council introduced in June 2010 a new Board as a whole.
The Company Secretary is a member of the knowledge and experience that is appropriate for its business.
The On 31 March 2010, David Arnold resigned as an Executive governance code entitled The UK Corporate Governance Code Group Senior Management team and all Directors have access to Executive team provides the Board with an appropriate view of Director.
the detail of the business and the benefit of their significant the New Code which replaces the Combined Code published his advice and services.
In certain circumstances, Board in June 2008 the Code.
The New Code applies to accounting Committees and individual Directors may wish to take collective experience of the UK house building industry.
The The Board now comprises an Executive Chairman, two further periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
This statement, independent professional advice in connection with their Non-Executive Directors bring a depth of experience and Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive unless specifically stated, refers to the Code, and the Company responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will understanding from outside the Group.
sets out details below of how it has applied the principles of good meet the reasonable costs and expenses incurred.
Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their governance as set out in Section 1 of the Code.
A summary of the composition of the Board and its committees profiles on page 27.
Board responsibilities and processes during the year is set out in Table 1.
The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of The Board met regularly and frequently, no less than six times Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a the Code and believe that throughout the year ended 30 June On 14 September 2009 John Tutte was appointed Group during the year and maintains a close dialogue as appropriate Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise independent Managing Director and as a result there is a clear division of 2010 the Company has been substantially compliant.
Board meetings are held at Head Office and Non-Executive Directors.
This was not the case for part of the responsibilities at the head of the Company between the running section on corporate governance, the Directors have specifically periodically at divisional offices when visits are frequently made year whilst Board appointments were changing.
The Board of the Board and the operational responsibility for the running of identified those provisions with which the Company does not to a selection of developments accompanied by the local currently comprises three Executive and three Non-Executive the Companys business as required by the Code.
In addition as comply with the Code together with the reasons behind this.
Board papers are distributed in advance of Directors, in compliance with the Code, and this has been the Steve Morgan is Executive Chairman, a Non-Executive Deputy the meetings to allow adequate time for review and preparation composition of the Board for the majority of the year.
Chairman and Senior Independent Director, was appointed so The Board and include key strategic, operational and financial information.
Composition of the Board strengthening the independence of the Board.
The Board had Attendance by individual directors at Board and Committee Table 1 on page 28 provides a summary of the Companys Following the Board changes on 19 August 2009 outlined in the previously consulted with leading shareholders and obtained their meetings held during the year ended 30 June 2010 is set out in assessment of the independence of the Directors.
support for this structure which allowed Steve Morgan to bring 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, the Board comprised an Table 2. his extensive knowledge and experience of the UK housebuilding Executive Chairman, three further Executive Directors and three No Executive Director served as a Non-Executive Director industry to Redrow and ensure sufficient continuity of the Board independent Non-Executive Directors.
Company policy permits full time and its practices to serve the interests of all shareholders.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved Executive Directors to hold one Non-Executive directorship, specifically for its decision.
subject to the consent of the Board.
Steve Morgan has other business interests as outlined on page 27.
Table 1 - List of Directors holding office during the year ended 30 June 2010 The matters reserved include: Appointments and re-elections to the Board Number of years Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: The Board has a Nomination Committee whose terms of on board in Corporate reference include making recommendations to the Board on the most recent Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Position appointment Committee Committee Committee Committee and half-yearly financial statements, interim The Nomination Committee report can be found on page 34. management statements, trading updates and the Executive Directors recommendation of dividends: Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are Steve Morgan Chairman i 1 subject to re-election at their first general meeting after John Tutte Group Managing Director 8 Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies appointment.
For those who are not subject to such obligations Barbara Richmond or practices: at this years AGM the Board decided to comply with the appointed 18 1 2010 Group Finance Director - provisions of the New Code on re-election and accordingly all Any changes relating to capital structure: Colin Lewis resigned 14 9 2009 Regional Chairman 8 Directors will be submitting themselves for re-election.
David Arnold resigned 31 3 2010 Group Finance Director 7 The Boards policy on the term of appointment for a Approval of treasury policies: Non-Executive Director is that it is not normally expected that a Non-Executive Directors Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal Non-Executive Director will serve more than six years.
Alan Jackson Non-Executive Deputy control and risk management: appointed 19 08 2009 Chairman and Senior Professional development and performance evaluation Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, Independent Director - Chairman Chairman The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and significant land purchases or contracts: Debbie Hewitt appointed 19 08 2009 Non-Executive Director - Chairman good training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board receives regular presentations and briefings from Paul Hampden Smith Changes to the size, structure and composition of the those responsible for key Group disciplines.
In addition, the Board appointed 19 08 2009 Non-Executive Director - Chairman Board: maintains close relationships with local management teams.
Malcolm King resigned 19 08 2009 Non-Executive Director 5 Chairman Bob Bennett resigned 19 08 2009 Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman Approval of significant policies, including Redrows health All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme Denise Jagger resigned 19 08 2009 Non-Executive Director 2 Chairman & safety policy: and following their first appointment.
The programme for Non-Executive Directors is specifically designed to encompass Review of overall corporate governance arrangements.
i Steve Morgan is the founder of Redrow and rejoined the Board on 23 March 2009, after an absence of over 8 years, and became Chairman on the full breadth of business and includes visits to operating 1 July 2009. subsidiaries.
Page 28 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 29 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Corporate Governance statement Table 2 - Attendance record of Directors at meetings during the year ended 30 June 2010 Corporate Governance structure Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Main Board Total number of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2010 11 4 5 4 1 Executive Directors Non-Executive Team Executive Management Team Steve Morgan 11 11 John Tutte 11 11 Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director Chairman Barbara Richmond i 4 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Managing Director Colin Lewis ii 2 3 Group Finance Director David Arnold iii 7 8 Company Secretary Functional Heads of Department covering Human Non-Executive Directors Resources, Information Technology, Commercial, Alan Jackson iv 9 9 4 4 4 4 2 2 1 1 Marketing and Finance Debbie Hewitt iv 8 9 3 4 4 4 2 2 Paul Hampden Smith iv 8 9 4 4 4 4 2 2 Malcolm King v 2 2 0 0 1 1 1 2 Committees Operating Divisions Bob Bennett v 1 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 Audit Denise Jagger v 2 2 0 0 1 1 2 2 Corporate Responsibility i Appointed on 18 January 2010 Nomination ii Resigned on 14 September 2009 Remuneration iii Resigned on 31 March 2010 iv Appointed on 19 August 2009 v Resigned on 19 August 2009 During the year, formal appraisals of the Group Managing immediately following their publication undertakes formal advance.
It is Company policy to propose a separate resolution at Director and Group Finance Director were undertaken by the presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are the AGM on each substantive issue including the opportunity to Chairman.
available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Group approve the Remuneration report.
published an Interim Management Statement in November 2009 All independent Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal and May 2010.
co. uk, gives access to current conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
The Board undertakes a formal annual review of it own Following the full year and half-yearly results announcements in effectiveness.
For the year ended June 2010, this was undertaken September 2009 and February 2010, the Chairman, Group using a formal questionnaire completed by each Director and the Managing Director and Group Finance Director met current or responses were considered collectively by the Board.
This embraced visits to London and feedback from these meetings is independently collated and Directors remuneration disseminated to the Board.
The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose terms of reference include the review of Main Board remuneration policy During the year ended June 2010, the Chairman and the Senior and agreement of the terms of employment and the granting of Independent Director also held a number of meetings with bonuses, share options or share incentive plans relating to the significant Shareholders.
The Group also hosted a site visit for Groups Senior Management.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 36 to 43.
The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to the Groups Head Office.
All Directors attended the AGM on Capital Structure 4 November 2009.
The AGM represents an opportunity for all Information on the capital structure of the Company is included Shareholders attending to table questions formally during the in the Directors report on page 46. meeting and informally afterwards to the Companys Directors.
Relations with Shareholders Formal notification of the AGM, through the Annual Report and The Group announces its financial results half-yearly and Accounts, is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days in Page 30 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 31
