About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Nomination Committee report Corporate Responsibility Committee report 6.
To consider the proposed re-election of Alan Jackson as The Corporate Responsibility Committees terms of reference are Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent kept under regular review being last amended in February 2010 Director at the AGM on 4 November 2010 and after due and are published on the Groups website.
consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: The Committee met once during the year ended 30 June 2010 7.
To consider the proposed re-election of Debbie Hewitt as and its principal business can be summarised as follows: Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 4 November 2010 and after due consideration to recommend her re-election to 1. Review of the terms of reference of the Committee: the Board: and 2.
Update on carbon foot printing and carbon emissions trading: 8.
To consider the proposed re-election of Paul Hampden Smith as Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 4 November 2010 3.
Update on the Green Team initiatives set up in the individual and after due consideration to recommend his re-election to subsidiaries and at Group and their work to date: the Board.
Current Members of the Nomination Committee Current Members of the 4. Review of external environmental benchmarking reporting: Corporate Responsibility Committee Alan Jackson, Chairman pictured 5. Review of site waste management and water consumption Paul Hampden Smith Alan Jackson, Chairman pictured Alan Jackson procedures: Debbie Hewitt Nigel Smith Redrow Research and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Sustainability Director 8 September 2010 6.
Briefing on Government Energy Consultations.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are kept under The Corporate responsibility review on pages 21 to 25 provides regular review being last amended in June 2010 and are published further information on areas of work monitored by the on the Groups website.
The Committee has met twice during the year ended 30 June 2010 following the appointment of Alan Jackson as Chairman on 19 August 2009 and the publication of the 2009 Annual Report Alan Jackson and Accounts and met twice prior to this.
Its principal business Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee can be summarised as follows: 8 September 2010 1.
To consider the structure of the Main Board and the proposal to streamline the Executive with the introduction of a Group Managing Director replacing the Regional Chairmen roles: 2.
To consider the appointment of John Tutte as Group Managing Director.
The Board considered the merits of the appointment and the qualities and experience of the individual concerned and resolved to recommend the appointment to the Board: 3.
To consider the proposed re-election of Steve Morgan as Chairman acting in an executive capacity at the AGM on 4 November 2010 and after due consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: 4.
To consider the proposed re-election of John Tutte as an Executive Director at the AGM on 4 November 2010 and after due consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: 5.
To consider the proposed re-election of Barbara Richmond as an Executive Director at the AGM on 4 November 2010 and after due consideration to recommend her re-election to the Board: Page 34 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 35
