Board Directors 123 456 789 10 54 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Executive Directors 1 Erik Engstrom 47 6 Marike van Lier Lels 51 Swedish Chief Executive officer since 2009.
Joined Reed Elsevier Dutch Appointed January 2010.
Member of the supervisory boards of as Chief Executive officer of Elsevier in 2004.
Prior to joining Reed KPN NV, USG People NV, TKH Group NV and Maersk BV.
A member Elsevier was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
Before that was of the audit committee of the Algemene Rekenkamer and of various president and chief operating officer of Random House Inc and, Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Was executive vice president and before its merger with Random House, president and chief executive chief operating officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol officer of Bantam Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his career Group, was a member of the executive board of Deutsche Post Euro as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served as a non-executive director Express and held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
of Eniro AB and Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Holds a BSc from Stockholm School of Economics, an MSc from the Royal 7 Robert Polet 55 Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and gained an MBA from Dutch Appointed 2007.
President and chief executive officer of Harvard Business School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Non-executive director of Wilderness Holdings Limited.
Spent 26 years at Unilever working in a variety of marketing and 2 Mark Armour 56 senior executive positions throughout the world including president British Chief Financial officer since 1996.
Non-executive director of Unilevers Worldwide Ice Cream and Frozen Foods division.
Prior to joining Reed Elsevier as Deputy Chief Financial officer in 1995, was a partner in Price Waterhouse.
8 David Reid 64 Holds an MA in Engineering from Cambridge University and British Appointed 2003.
Non-executive qualied as a Chartered Accountant.
chairman of Tesco PLC, having previously been executive deputy chairman until December 2003, and finance director from 1985 to 1997.
Chairman of Kwik-Fit and previously a non-executive director of fide Vere PLC, Legal & General Group plc and Westbury PLC.
Non-Executive Directors 9 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE 67 3 Anthony Habgood 64 British Appointed 2002.
Served as Chairman of the Audit Committee British Appointed Chairman 2009.
Non-executive chairman of Aviva PLC and a Was chairman of Bunzl plc and of Mlnlycke Healthcare Limited and non-executive director of BG Group plc.
Member of the House of served as chief executive of Bunzl plc, chief executive of Tootal Group Lords since 1999.
Was chairman of KPMG Worldwide until 1999, plc and a director of The Boston Consulting Group lnc.
He has also having joined KPMG in 1966.
Previous non-executive directorships been a non-executive director of Geest plc: Marks and Spencer plc: include: chairman of Aegis Group plc: deputy chairman of G4S plc: National Westminster Bank plc: Powergen plc: and SVG Capital plc.
Young & Cos Brewery plc: AEA Technology plc: and member of the Holds an MA in Economics from Cambridge University and an MS supervisory board of ABN AMRO Holding NV.
in Industrial Administration from Carnegie Mellon University.
He is a visiting Fellow at Oxford University.
10 Ben van der Veer 59 Dutch Appointed 2009.
Chairman of the Audit Committee from August 4 Mark Elliott 61 2010.
Member of the supervisory boards of AEGON NV, TomTom NV, American Appointed 2003.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Siemens Nederland NV and Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV.
Was Chairman of QinetiQ Group plc and a non-executive director of G4S plc.
chairman of the executive board of KPMG in the Netherlands and a Until his retirement in 2008, was general manager IBM Global Solutions, member of the management committee of the KPMG International having held a number of positions with IBM, including managing board until his retirement in 2008, having joined KPMG in 1976. director of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa.
President and chief executive officer of Neustar Inc. A director of The Ocean Foundation.
Was president and chief executive officer at Sun Rocket Inc. Before that was president of AOL Broadband, Premium and Developer Services.
Prior to joining AOL, was a founding partner at Brera Capital Partners LLC.
Previously was chief operating officer of Time Warner Telecommunications.
Has served as senior advisor to the Federal Communications Commission Chairman and a senior counsel to Viacom Cable.
Board Committee Membership Both of the executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and members of the Executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc Nominations Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Mrs van Lier Lels is a member of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
All of the other Corporate Governance Committee: joint Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV non-executive directors are directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 55 Structure and corporate governance The boards of both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Corporate structure have agreed, other than in special circumstances, to recommend equivalent gross dividends including, with respect to the dividend Reed Elsevier was created in January 1993, when Reed Elsevier PLC on Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, the associated UK tax credit and Reed Elsevier NV contributed their business to two jointly owned based on the equalisation ratio.
A Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share companies, Reed Elsevier Group plc, a UK registered company pays dividends in sterling and is subject to UK tax law with respect which owns the publishing and information businesses, and Elsevier to dividend and capital rights.
A Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share Reed Finance BV, a Dutch registered company which owns the pays dividends in euros and is subject to Dutch tax law with respect nancing activities.
Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have to dividend and capital rights.
The exchange rate used for each dividend retained their separate legal and national identities and are publicly calculation is the spot euro sterling exchange rate, averaged over a held companies.
Reed Elsevier PLCs securities are listed in London period of five consecutive business days commencing on the tenth and New York, and Reed Elsevier NVs securities are listed in business day before the announcement of the proposed dividend.
Following the merger of their respective businesses, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV entered into a Governing Agreement to regulate their relationship, including the Compliance economic interests of the parties and the composition of their boards and those of Reed Elsevier Group plc and of Elsevier Reed Finance Compliance with codes of best practice BV, as further referred to below.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have implemented standards of corporate governance and disclosure Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier policies applicable to companies listed on the stock exchanges PLC NV of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States.
The effect of this is that a standard applying to one will, where not in conict, also be observed by the other.
Reed Elsevier Group plc The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV which Publishing and Information Businesses comprises an Executive Board and a Supervisory Board, together the Combined Board support the principles and provisions LexisNexis LexisNexis Reed Reed of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Elsevier Risk Legal & Exhibitions Business Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Solutions Professional Information in June 2008 the UK Code and those contained in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code issued in December 2008 the Dutch Code.
The principles and provisions set out in the UK Code and the Dutch Code have applied throughout the financial year ended Elsevier Reed Finance BV Finance Activities 31 December 2010.
Reed Elsevier PLC, which has its primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, has complied throughout the year with the UK Code.
Reed Elsevier NV, which has its primary listing on Equalisation arrangements the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange, has complied throughout Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV each hold a 50% interest the year with the UK Code, and subject to limited exceptions as in Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Reed Elsevier PLC holds a 39% interest explained in the Reed Elsevier NV Report of the Supervisory Board in Elsevier Reed Finance BV, with Reed Elsevier NV holding a 61% and the Executive Board on pages 166 to 169, has applied the interest.
Reed Elsevier PLC additionally holds a 5.8% indirect equity best practice provisions of the Dutch Code.
The ways in which interest in Reed Elsevier NV, reecting the arrangements entered Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV have applied the main into between the two companies at the time of the merger, which principles of the UK Code are described below.
For further determined the equalisation ratio whereby one Reed Elsevier NV information on the application of the Dutch Code by Reed Elsevier ordinary share is, in broad terms, intended to confer equivalent NV, see the Corporate Governance Statement of Reed Elsevier NV economic interests to 1.538 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares.
published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
The equalisation ratio is subject to change to reect share splits and similar events that affect the number of outstanding ordinary New UK Corporate Governance Code shares of either Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV.
In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued The UK Corporate Governance Code the New UK Code, which replaces Under the equalisation arrangements, Reed Elsevier PLC the UK Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010. shareholders have a 52.9% economic interest in the Reed Elsevier The New UK Code will, therefore, apply to Reed Elsevier in respect combined businesses, and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders of the financial year beginning 1 January 2011.
It is the intention of other than Reed Elsevier PLC have a 47.1% economic interest the boards to comply with the New UK Code and in accordance with in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
Holders of ordinary its recommendation, all directors will seek annual re-election at the shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV enjoy respective Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed substantially equivalent dividend and capital rights with respect Elsevier NV commencing from the meetings to be held in April 2011. to their ordinary shares.
Relations with shareholders Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV participate in regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
Presentations are made by the Chairman, Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer following the announcement of the interim and full year results and 56 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Structure and corporate governance continued these are simultaneously webcast.
Two investor seminars on specic The boards areas of the business are currently planned for 2011 and these will also be webcast.
The Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial The board of Reed Elsevier PLC, the Combined Board of officer and the investor relations team meet institutional shareholders Reed Elsevier NV and the board of Reed Elsevier Group plc are on a regular basis and the Chairman also makes himself available to harmonised.
All of the directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc are major institutions as appropriate.
A trading update is provided ahead also directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and are a member of either of the Annual General Meetings of the two companies and towards the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
the end of the financial year through Interim Management Statements.
Reed Elsevier NV may nominate for appointment to the Supervisory The interim and annual results announcements and presentations, Board two directors who are not appointed to the boards of either together with the Interim Management Statements, investor seminar Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Marike van Lier Lels presentations and other important announcements and corporate was appointed to the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board in governance documents concerning Reed Elsevier, are published on January 2010, in succession to Dien fide Boer-Kruyt who retired at the Reed Elsevier website, www.
In accordance the conclusion of the Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meeting in with the provisions of the Dutch Code, Reed Elsevier NV has adopted April 2010.
The names, nationality and biographical details of each a bilateral shareholder contact policy, which is also published on the director at the date of this report appear on pages 54 and 55.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV commission periodic reports on the attitudes and views The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV, Reed Elsevier of the companies institutional shareholders and the results are the Group plc and Elsevier Reed Finance BV each comprise a balance subject of formal presentations to the respective boards.
of executive and non-executive directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the deliberations of the boards.
The boards Both Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV offer e-voting review the independence of the non-executive directors every year, facilities in relation to proxy voting at shareholder meetings.
The based on the criteria for independence set out in the UK Code.
Annual General Meetings provide an opportunity for the boards The UK Code does not consider the Chairman to be independent to communicate with individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the due to the unique role the Chairman has in corporate governance.
Chief Executive officer, the Chief Financial officer, the chairmen Notwithstanding this, Anthony Habgood met the independence of the board committees, other directors and a representative of the criteria contained in the UK Code when he was appointed Chairman external auditors are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The boards consider all non-executive directors other than the Chairman to be independent of management and free from any Board induction and information business or other relationship which could materially interfere with On appointment and as required, directors receive training appropriate their ability to exercise independent judgement.
Lord Sharman, who to their level of previous experience.
This includes the provision of was appointed as a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC in a tailored induction programme so as to provide newly appointed January 2002, and a member of the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory directors with information about the Reed Elsevier businesses and Board in April 2002, will retire from the respective boards at the other relevant information to assist them in performing their duties.
conclusion of the Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC Annual Non-executive directors are encouraged to visit the Reed Elsevier General Meetings in April 2011.
The boards have determined that businesses to meet management and senior staff.
Lord Sharman remains independent in character and judgement despite having served on the board of Reed Elsevier PLC for more All directors have full and timely access to the information required than nine years: there are also no relationships or circumstances to discharge their responsibilities fully and efficiently.
They have which are likely to affect his independent judgement.
access to the services of the respective company secretaries, other members of Reed Elseviers management and staff, and external The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and of Reed Elsevier NV have advisors.
Directors may take independent professional advice in appointed David Reid to act as senior independent director, who the furtherance of their duties, at the relevant companys expense.
is available to meet with institutional shareholders and assist in resolving concerns in cases where alternative channels are deemed In addition to scheduled board and board committee meetings inappropriate.
The senior independent director also leads the annual held during the year, directors attend many other meetings and assessment of the functioning and performance of the Chairman of site visits.
Where a director is unable to attend a board or board Reed Elsevier PLC Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Reed committee meeting he or she is provided with all relevant papers Elsevier NV.
A prole, which identies the skills and experience of and information relating to that meeting and is able to discuss issues the non-executive directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and the members arising with the respective Chairman and other board members.
of the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV, is available on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Board evaluation During the year the Corporate Governance Committee assessed Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders maintain the performance of individual directors and, led by the senior their rights to appoint individuals to the respective boards in independent director, also assessed the performance of the accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association of Chairman.
Using questionnaires completed by all directors, the these companies.
Subject to this, no individual may be appointed Committee reviewed the functioning and constitution of the boards to the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV either of the and their committees.
Based on these assessments and on the Executive Board or the Supervisory Board or Reed Elsevier Group board effectiveness review, the Committee believes that the plc unless recommended by the joint Nominations Committee.
performance of each director continues to be effective and that they Members of the Committee abstain when their own re-appointment demonstrate commitment to their respective roles in Reed Elsevier.
The Committee currently envisages initiating an independent evaluation of the boards and their committees in 2011.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 57 Structure and corporate governance continued Board attendance Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV Reed Elsevier Group plc Date of Number of Number of Number of appointment meetings Number meetings Number meetings Number of cessation held whilst of meetings held whilst of meetings held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended a director attended a director attended Mark Armour 65657 6 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt April 2010 n a n a 2 1 n a n a Mark Elliott 65657 6 Erik Engstrom 66667 7 Anthony Habgood 66667 7 Lisa Hook 65657 6 Marike van Lier Lels January 2010 n a n a 6 5 n a n a Robert Polet 65657 6 Andrew Prozes December 2010 64647 5 David Reid 64647 5 Lord Sharman 64647 4 Ben van der Veer 66667 7 As a general rule, letters of appointment in respect of non-executive The boards, in conjunction with external recruitment consultants, have directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and members of the Supervisory been conducting a search for a suitable candidate as a non-executive Board of Reed Elsevier NV provide that individuals will serve for an director and, on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, initial term of three years, and are typically expected to serve two Adrian Hennah will be proposed for appointment as a non-executive three-year terms, although the boards may invite an individual to director of Reed Elsevier PLC and as a member of the Supervisory serve for an additional period of three years.
Board of Reed Elsevier NV at the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Annual General Meetings in April 2011.
Mr Hennah was appointed The respective Articles of Association of Reed Elsevier PLC and chief financial officer of Smith & Nephew plc in 2006.
He has over Reed Elsevier NV provide that all directors should be subject to 25 years experience in finance and operations in the medical devices, retirement at least every three years and are then able to make technology and pharmaceuticals industries, and will bring highly themselves available for re-election by shareholders at subsequent relevant experience to the board discussions.
Subject to his Annual General Meetings.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the appointment at the Annual General Meetings, he will also be appointed said Articles of Association, the boards intend to comply with the a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier Group plc and a member recommendations contained in the New UK Code, and all directors of the Audit Committees and of the Corporate Governance Committee.
will seek re-election by shareholders annually, commencing with the Annual General Meetings to be held in April 2011.
Elsevier Reed Finance BV has a two-tier board structure comprising a Supervisory Board and a Management Board.
The Board changes Supervisory Board consists of Rudolf van den Brink Chairman, Changes during the year in the composition of the boards of Mark Armour, Ben van der Veer and Marike van Lier Lels, with the Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc Management Board consisting of Jacques Billy, Gerben fide Jong are noted in the table above.
Appointments to the Supervisory Board and the Management Board are made by Elsevier Reed Finance Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, BVs shareholders, in accordance with the companys Articles Marike van Lier Lels was appointed a member of the Reed Elsevier of Association.
NV Supervisory Board in January 2010.
Mrs Van Lier Lels has Date of Number of extensive business and international experience, along with specic appointment meetings Number of knowledge of employee related matters in the Netherlands.
Mrs fide cessation held whilst meetings Members during the year a director attended Boer-Kruyt retired from the Reed Elsevier NV Supervisory Board in April 2010.
Mr Prozes retired as an executive director of the boards Mark Armour 3 3 on 31 December 2010.
Jacques Billy 3 3 Dien fide Boer-Kruyt April 2010 1 1 Rudolf van den Brink 3 3 Lord Sharman will retire from the boards at the conclusion of the Gerben fide Jong 3 3 Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC Annual General Meetings Marike van Lier Lels February 2010 2 2 in April 2011, and will not seek re-election.
In accordance with the Ben van der Veer February 2010 2 2 recommendation in the New UK Code, all other directors will retire Jans van der Woude 3 3 from the boards at the respective Annual General Meetings and, being eligible, they will offer themselves for re-election.
Taking into account the assessment by the Corporate Governance Committee Board committees of the qualications, performance and effectiveness of each individual director seeking re-election, the boards have accepted In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, a recommendation from the Nominations Committee that each the following committees have been established by the respective director be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting boards.
All of the committees have written terms of reference, which of the respective company.
are published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
Membership of each committee during the year is set out on page 59.
58 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Structure and corporate governance continued Number of Audit Committees: Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and meetings Reed Elsevier Group plc have established Audit Committees.
held whilst a Number of The Committees comprise only non-executive directors.
The Committee meetings Members member attended Committees have been chaired by Ben van der Veer since August 2010, having previously been chaired by Lord Sharman.
A report Mark Elliott 5 5 Anthony Habgood 5 5 of the Audit Committees, setting out their role and main activities David Reid 5 5 during the year, appears on pages 81 to 84.
Lord Sharman 5 3 Number of meetings Ben van der Veer was appointed a member of the Committee held whilst a Number of Committee meetings in January 2011.
Members member attended Lisa Hook 5 5 Corporate Governance Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and David Reid 5 5 Reed Elsevier NV have established a joint Corporate Governance Lord Sharman 5 4 Committee, which is responsible for reviewing ongoing Ben van der Veer 5 5 developments and best practice in corporate governance.
The Committee is also responsible for assessing the performance of The functions of an audit committee in respect of the nancing the directors and recommending the structure and operation of the activities are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier various committees of the boards and the qualications and criteria Reed Finance BV.
for membership of each committee, including the independence of members of the boards.
The Committee comprises only Remuneration Committee: Reed Elsevier Group plc has non-executive directors, and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
established a Remuneration Committee, which is responsible for Date of Number of determining the remuneration for the executive directors of Reed appointment meetings Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
The cessation held whilst a Number of Committee comprises only non-executive directors, and is chaired during the Committee meetings Members year member attended by Mark Elliott.
A Directors Remuneration Report, which has been Dien fide Boer-Kruyt April 2010 2 1 approved by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier Mark Elliott 3 3 PLC and Reed Elsevier NV, appears on pages 62 to 80.
This report Anthony Habgood 3 3 also serves as disclosure of the directors remuneration policy, and Lisa Hook 3 2 the remuneration and interests of the directors in the shares of the Marike van Lier Lels January 2010 3 2 two parent companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Robert Polet 3 3 David Reid 3 3 Number of Lord Sharman 3 3 meetings Date of held whilst a Number of Ben van der Veer 3 3 appointment Committee meetings Members during the year member attended Mark Elliott 6 6 Internal control Anthony Habgood January 2010 6 6 Robert Polet 6 6 Parent companies David Reid 6 5 The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV exercise independent supervisory roles over the activities and systems of Nominations Committee: Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier internal control of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed NV have established a joint Nominations Committee, which Finance BV.
The boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV provides a formal and transparent procedure for the selection have each adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be and appointment of new directors to the boards.
The Committee brought to them for decision.
In relation to Reed Elsevier Group plc comprises only non-executive directors, and is chaired by Anthony and Elsevier Reed Finance BV, the boards of Reed Elsevier PLC and Habgood.
The Committees terms of reference include assuring Reed Elsevier NV approve the strategy and the annual budgets, and board succession and making recommendations to the boards of receive regular reports on the operations, including the treasury and Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc risk management activities of the two companies.
Major transactions concerning the appointment or re-appointment of directors to, proposed by the boards of Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed and the retirement of directors from, those boards.
In conjunction Finance BV require the approval of the boards of both Reed Elsevier with the Reed Elsevier Group plc Remuneration Committee PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
and external consultants, the Committee is also responsible for developing proposals for the remuneration and fees for new directors.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees In recommending appointments to the Reed Elsevier PLC and meet on a regular basis to review the systems of internal control Reed Elsevier NV Boards, the Committee considers the knowledge, and risk management of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier experience and background of individual directors and has regard to Reed Finance BV.
In respect of the Supervisory Board as a whole, it also has regard to the prole adopted for the constitution of the Supervisory Board see www.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 59
