Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Directors remuneration report continued Andrew Prozes Options No.
As a potential beneficiary under the EBT in the same way as other employees of Reed Elsevier, each executive In respect of the REGP, the maximum number of shares that can director is deemed to be interested in all the shares held by the vest is 150% of the number of shares shown in the tables above.
EBT which, at 31 December 2010, amounted to 14,654,161 Reed In respect of ESOS and BIP, the number of awards shown in the Elsevier PLC ordinary shares 1.17% of issued share capital and table is the maximum capable of vesting.
ESOS awards vest on 7,781,790 Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares 1.01% of issued share the third anniversary and expire on the tenth anniversary of the capital.
These numbers include ordinary share equivalents held in date of grant.
For LTIP, the number of shares shown in the share the form of Reed Elsevier PLC ADRs and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs.
tables reflects the target award.
The target award under the 2009-11 cycle of LTIP vests for achieving Adjusted EPS growth of 12% and Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc on median TSR relative to an industry comparator group.
Depending 16 February 2011. on actual Adjusted EPS growth and TSR, the proportion of the target award that may vest could be lower or higher.
The maximum Mark Elliott that can potentially vest in respect of these awards is 189% of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the number of shares comprised in the target awards shown in the tables above.
Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC on 16 February 2011 Options under the SAYE scheme, in which all eligible UK employees Mark Elliott are invited to participate, are granted at a maximum discount of 20% Non-Executive Director to the market price at time of grant.
They are normally exercisable after the expiry of three or five years from the date of grant.
No Approved by the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV on performance targets are attached to these option grants as the 16 February 2011 SAYE is an all-employee scheme.
Mark Elliott The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share Member of the Supervisory Board at the date of award of grants under the REGP and BIP was 4.665.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share at the date of award of grants under the REGP and BIP was 8.31.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share during the year was in the range of 4.606 to 5.63 and at 31 December 2010 was 5.415.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share during the year was in the range of 8.174 to 10.115 and at 31 December 2010 was 9.257.
80 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Report of the Audit Committees This report has been prepared by the Audit Committees of The Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee fulfils this role in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in conjunction with the respect of the publishing and information operating business.
The Audit Committee of Reed Elsevier Group plc the Committees functions of an audit committee in respect of the financing activities and has been approved by the respective boards.
are carried out by the Supervisory Board of Elsevier Reed Finance BV.
The Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Audit Committees The report meets the requirements of the UK Corporate fulfil their roles from the perspective of the parent companies and Governance Code, issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council, both Committees have access to the reports to and the work of and the Dutch Corporate Governance Code, issued by Dutch the Reed Elsevier Group plc Audit Committee and the Elsevier Corporate Governance Code Monitoring Committee.
Reed Finance BV Supervisory Board in this respect.
Audit Committees The Committees have explicit authority to investigate any matters The main role and responsibilities of the Committees in relation to within their terms of reference and have access to all resources and the respective companies are set out in written terms of reference information that they may require for this purpose.
The Committees and include: are entitled to obtain legal and other independent professional advice and have the authority to approve all fees payable to i to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the such advisers.
company, and any formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial The terms of reference of each Audit Committee are reviewed reporting judgements contained in them: annually and a copy of each is published on the Reed Elsevier website, www.
ii to review the companys internal financial controls and the companys internal control and risk management systems: Committee membership The Committees each comprise at least three independent iii to monitor and review the effectiveness of the companys non-executive directors.
The members of each of the Committees internal audit function: that served during the year are: Ben van der Veer Chairman of the Committees from August 2010, Lord Sharman Chairman iv to make recommendations to the board, for it to put to the of the Committees until August 2010, Lisa Hook and David Reid.
shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation Lord Sharman and David Reid, both UK chartered accountants, to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external and Ben van der Veer, a registered accountant in the Netherlands, auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of are considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial engagement of the external auditor: experience.
Lord Sharman will retire as a member of the Committees in April 2011.
Biographies of the members of each of the v to review and monitor the external auditors independence and Committees are set out on page 55. objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements: Appointments to the Committees are made on the recommendation and of the Nominations Committee and are for periods of up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three-year vi to develop and recommend policy on the engagement of the periods, so long as the member continues to be independent.
external auditor to supply non audit services, taking into account Details of the remuneration policy in respect of members of the Committees and the remuneration paid to members for the year relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non audit ended 31 December 2010 are set out in the Directors Remuneration services by the external audit firm, and to monitor compliance.
The Committees report to the respective boards on their activities identifying any matters in respect of which they consider that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 81 Report of the Audit Committees continued Committee activities The Audit Committee meetings are typically attended by The Committees hold meetings five times a year: in January, the Chief Financial Officer, the Reed Elsevier Group plc group February, June, July and December, and reports on these meetings financial controller, chief risk officer and director of internal audit, are made to the respective boards at the next board meetings.
and audit partners of the external auditors.
From time to time The principal business of these meetings typically includes: the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer may attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Additionally, the managing director and senior January: review of critical accounting policies and practices, representatives of the external auditors of Elsevier Reed Finance BV and significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising attend the July and February meetings of the parent company Audit in connection with the annual financial statements, including Committees.
At least one meeting each year, the Committees meet appropriateness of the going concern assumption: review of separately with the external auditors without management present.
risk management activities, compliance and internal control The Chairman of the Audit Committees has at least one separate effectiveness: reviewing and approving the internal audit plan: meeting each year with the director of internal audit.
review of internal audit findings: review of the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence and the fees paid to the In discharging their principal responsibilities in respect of the 2010 external auditor for audit and non audit services: financial year, the Committees have: February: review and recommending for approval to the Boards i received and discussed reports from the Reed Elsevier Group of annual financial statements, results announcement, annual plc group financial controller that set out areas of significance in report on Form 20-F and related formal statements: review of the preparation of the financial statements, including: review of external audit findings: the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets for possible impairment, review of estimated useful lives of intangible assets, June: monitoring and assessing the qualification, performance, accounting for pensions and related assumptions, accounting expertise, resources, objectivity and independence of the for share based remuneration and related assumptions, review external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit of the carrying value of investments, accounting treatment process: agreeing the external audit plan: reviewing significant for acquisitions and disposals and business restructuring, financial reporting issues and judgements arising in connection application of revenue recognition and cost capitalisation with the interim financial statements: review of significant external policies, accounting for derivatives, review of tax reserves financial reporting and regulatory developments: review of tax and provisions for lease obligations, and the use of the going policies: review of compliance activities: review of report from concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
external auditors on control matters: review of internal Areas of focus in 2010 were the accounting and judgements in audit findings: respect of: the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, taking into account the effects of the recent global recession and July: review of critical accounting policies and practices, and subsequent economic environment on business performance: significant financial reporting issues and judgements arising revenue recognition and cost capitalisation as business models in connection with the interim financial statements, including evolve from print publications to online services: accounting appropriateness of the going concern assumption: review for the sale and or closure of a number of Reed Business and recommending for approval to the Boards of the interim Information titles and businesses: tax provisioning: and the financial statements, results announcement and related formal recognition of liabilities arising from the restructuring programmes and lease obligations.
statements: review of external audit findings: review of risk management activities and internal audit findings: review and ii reviewed the critical accounting policies and compliance approval of the external audit engagement letters: review of with applicable accounting standards and other disclosure estimated external audit fees: requirements and received regular update reports on accounting December: review of year end financial reporting and accounting and regulatory developments.
issues: review of significant external financial reporting and regulatory developments: review of external audit findings to date: review of internal audit findings: review of the terms of reference and effectiveness of internal audit: review of the terms of reference of the Audit Committees.
82 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Report of the Audit Committees continued iii received and discussed regular reports on the management External auditor independence and audit effectiveness of material risks and reviewed the effectiveness of the systems The Audit Committees have the delegated responsibility for of internal control.
As part of this review, detailed internal control reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit and overseeing evaluation and certification is obtained from management across the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Reed Elsevier has the operating businesses, reviewed by internal audit and a well established policy on audit effectiveness and independence discussed with the Committees.
of auditors that sets out inter alia: the responsibilities of the Audit Committee in the selection of auditors to be proposed for iv received and discussed regular reports from the Reed Elsevier appointment or reappointment at the annual general meeting and for Group plc chief risk officer and director of internal audit agreement on the terms of their engagement and the scope of the summarising the status of the Reed Elsevier risk management annual audit: the auditor independence requirements and the policy activities and the findings from internal audit reviews and the on the provision of non audit services: the rotation of audit partners actions agreed with management.
Areas of focus in 2010 and staff: and the conduct of meetings between the auditors and included: project management of development spend, the Audit Committee.
The policy is available on the Reed Elsevier particularly in relation to the significant product and infrastructure website, www.
investment in the US legal business: restructuring and acquisition integration activities, notably in the restructuring of Reed Under the policy, the auditors are precluded from engaging in Business Information and the integration of the ChoicePoint non audit services that would compromise their independence or acquisition within LexisNexis Risk Solutions: regulatory violate any professional requirements or regulations affecting their compliance and review of information security: business appointment as auditors.
In general, the auditors may not provide continuity planning: and continued compliance with the a service which creates a mutuality of interest: places the auditor in requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act a position to audit their own work: results in the auditor acting in a relating to the documentation and testing of internal controls capacity akin to that of a company manager or employee: or puts over financial reporting.
the auditor in the role of advocate for the company.
The policy sets out specific services that may not be provided by the auditors.
The v reviewed and approved the internal audit plan for 2010 auditors may provide non audit services which do not conflict with and monitored execution, including progress in respect their independence where their skills and experience make them of recommendations made.
Reviewed the resources, a logical supplier of the services, and subject to pre-approval by budget and effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The Committees have reviewed and agreed the non audit services provided in 2010 by the external auditors, vi received presentations from the Reed Elsevier vice president together with the associated fees which are set out in note 3 to compliance on the compliance programme, including the the combined financial statements.
The non audit services provided operation of Reed Elseviers codes of conduct, training were in the areas of taxation, other audit related services, due programmes and whistleblowing arrangements: and from diligence and other transaction related services where their the LexisNexis senior vice president, privacy, security and knowledge of the Reed Elsevier businesses and experience made compliance on management of data privacy, security and them most suitable to carry out the work required.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partners vii received regular updates from the Chief Financial Officer on responsible for the audit engagement every five years.
The lead engagement partner has now completed his second year of auditing developments within the finance function.
Any decision to open the audit to tender is taken only on the recommendation of the Committees.
Ben van der Veer, Lisa Hook and David Reid attended all five The external auditors have confirmed their independence and meetings of the Committees in 2010.
Lord Sharman attended compliance with the Reed Elsevier policy on auditor independence.
The external auditors have attended all meetings of the Committees.
They have provided written reports at the February, June, July and December meetings summarising the most significant findings from their audit work.
These reports have been discussed by the Committees and actions agreed where necessary.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 83
