Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Changes to the Groups capital structure governance set out in the Combined Code published in June Changes to the Groups management and control structure 2008 the Code for financial periods beginning after 29 June 2008.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders Capital investment in excess of 5 million and this report describes how the Board applied the principles Material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million of good governance.
In its prospectus dated 8 September 2008 the Company stated its intention to voluntarily comply with the Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all Combined Code so far as it is practical for a Luxembourg Directors, are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved company to do so.
concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The Board Roles of Board members At 31 December 2010, the Board of Directors was made up of There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman six members comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
Biographical details of the The Chairman Directors are set out on page 15.
Douglas Sutherland is responsible for leadership of the Board, Role of the Board setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial effective communication with shareholders and that the Board leadership and to review the overall strategic development of is aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Board approves the corporate plan and the both the contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and annual budget and reviews performance against targets at every constructive relations between the Executive Directors and meeting.
Through the Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the Non-Executive Directors.
integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of financial The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, are controls and the internal control and risk management system.
responsible for ensuring all Directors are properly briefed on The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full and Committee to set the remuneration policy for Directors and timely access to relevant information.
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility The Chairman is deemed to be independent.
for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board John Matthews retired from the Board with effect from Committees the Committees have authority to make 18 May 2010 and was replaced as Chairman by Douglas decisions in their areas of expertise.
Sutherland, who joined the Board in August 2008.
Frequency of meetings The Chief Executive There were eleven board meetings during 2010.
Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and for its The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework individual attendance by the Directors are shown below.
of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates decision-making and responsibilities accordingly.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Main Board Committee Committee Committee Non-Executive Directors Total meetings 11 5 7 5 The Non-Executive Directors each bring their own senior level Mark Dixon 11 of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent Stephen Gleadle 9 counsel brought to the group by the Non-Executives enhances the overall decision making of the Board.
Non-Executives are John Matthews 3 2 appointed for an initial three year term, subject to election by Martin Robinson 3 3 2 2 shareholders at each Annual General Meeting AGM after Lance Browne 9 5 6 4 their appointment.
Ulrich Ogiermann 8 5 6 4 On 18 May 2010 Martin Robinson, Senior Independent Douglas Sutherland 11 5 7 5 Non-Executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Elmar Heggen 5 2 4 2 committee, retired from the Board.
On 31 December 2010 Alex Sulkowski 6 2 4 2 Ulrich Ogiermann, Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, retired from the Matters reserved for the Board Board.
On 1 June 2010 Elmar Heggen and Alex Sulkowski The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its were each respectively appointed as an Independent decision, to ensure that no one individual has unfettered powers Non-Executive Director.
These include: Company Secretary Approval of regulatory announcements including the interim The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising and annual financial statements the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters Terms of reference and membership of the Board and and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board its Committees meetings and discussions.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
18 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
indd 18 07 04 2011 09:15 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder and Other Information Board Committees External auditors: The Board has delegated certain of its governance KPMG Audit S.. r. l. were the Companys auditors for the year responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration ended 31 December 2010.
For 2011, the Audit Committee Committees.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to has recommended to the Board that a resolution to re-appoint all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are KPMG Audit S.. r. l. as the Companys auditors be proposed circulated to all Board members.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, The terms of reference of the Committees have been documented the effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the and approved by the Board and are available on the Companys lead audit partner.
A brief summary of the members, activities and terms of reference of the Committees is provided below.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Companys external auditor is monitored by and, above certain Audit Committee thresholds, requires prior approval from the Audit Committee Alex Sulkowski Chairman appointed 1 June 2010 to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not Douglas Sutherland Chairman resigned 18 May 2010 impair their independence or objectivity.
During the year, KPMG Elmar Heggen appointed 1 June 2010 performed due diligence work on certain acquisitions.
KPMG is Martin Robinson resigned 18 May 2010 prohibited from providing services that would be considered to Ulrich Ogiermann resigned 31 December 2010 jeopardise their independence such as book keeping services, Lance Browne valuations and system design.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for applying an Remuneration Committee effective system of internal control and compliance, accurate Elmar Heggen Chairman appointed 1 June 2010 as a member external financial reporting, ful lling its obligations under law of the Committee and 31 December 2010 as Chairman and the Combined Code, and managing the relationship with Martin Robinson Chairman resigned 18 May 2010 the Companys external auditors to the Audit Committee.
The Lance Browne Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
Alex Sulkowski appointed 1 June 2010 Ulrich Ogiermann Chairman appointed as Chairman 18 May The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the 2010 and resigned from Committee 31 December 2010 request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive Douglas Sutherland resigned 18 May 2010 Directors, the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk Management attend each meeting.
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30.
Summary terms of reference: Nomination Committee Financial Reporting provide support to the Board by Douglas Sutherland Chairman appointed 18 May 2010 monitoring the integrity of and ensuring that the published John Matthews Chairman resigned 18 May 2010 financial statements of the Group and any formal Martin Robinson resigned 18 May 2010 announcements relating to the Companys financial Lance Browne performance comply fully with the relevant statutes and Ulrich Ogiermann resigned 31 December 2010 accounting standards.
Alex Sulkowski appointed 1 June 2010 Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of Elmar Heggen appointed 1 June 2010 the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The Committee meets as required during the year to consider Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit matters delegated to it under its terms of reference.
Board programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately effectiveness, performance and leadership were discussed informally by the Board as a whole.
resourced and free from management restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of Summary terms of reference: the internal auditors.
Board appointment and composition to regularly review External audit the Audit Committee advises the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and make the appointment, re-appointment, remuneration and removal recommendations on the role and nomination of Directors for of the external auditors.
appointment and reappointment to the Board for the purpose of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of skills, knowledge Employee concerns the Audit Committee reviews the and experience.
Companys arrangements under which employees may in con dence raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee in relation to the suitability of candidates for membership of the ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The appointment and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
removal of Directors are matters reserved for the full Board.
The Audit Committee also meets independently with the Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and Companys auditors and with the Head of Risk Management Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations to informally discuss matters of interest.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 www.
indd 19 07 04 2011 09:15 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued Board performance assist the Chairman with the annual The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging markets that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue performance evaluation to assess the overall and individual generated from the USA and Europe over time and provide performance and effectiveness of the Board.
better protection to the Group from an economic downturn Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic issues in a single market.
and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep Exposure to movements in property markets under review the leadership needs of the organisation to A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent enable it to compete effectively.
This means that the costs of these leases may Principal risks and uncertainties vary as a result of external movements in the property market.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically contain upward an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The Group only rent reviews which means that should open market rents has a risk management structure in place designed to identify, decrease, then Regus could be exposed to paying higher than manage and mitigate business risks.
Risk assessment and market rent in these locations.
evaluation is an essential part of the annual planning, budgeting If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to customers and forecasting cycle.
due to local property market conditions then this could result in The Directors have identi ed the following principal risks and reduced pro tability or operating losses in these markets.
These do not constitute Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent review all of the risks facing the Group.
clauses, the Group may bene t from paying below market rent Economic downturn in signi cant markets in a market with increasing open market rents.
This may allow The Group has a signi cant proportion of its centres in the the Group to improve pro tability if the movements in open Americas predominantly the USA and Europe.
An economic market rents are passed on to clients.
downturn in these markets could adversely affect the Groups The length of the Groups leases or the period after which the operating revenues thereby reducing operating performance Group can exercise any break option in the leases is usually or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in operating losses.
signi cantly longer than the duration of the Groups contracts Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues from with its customers.
If demand falls, the Group may be unable customers and pays its suppliers principally landlords are to increase or maintain occupancy or price levels and if revenue matched to reduce working capital needs.
However, a reduction declines the Group may be unable to reduce the lease cost in revenues, with no immediate decline in the cost base, could base.
Additional costs could be incurred if the Group disposes result in signi cant funding shortfalls in the business.
Any of unpro table centres.
funding shortfall may require the Group to seek external Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value funding or sell assets in the longer term.
of certain Group assets could result in impairment.
In addition, competition may increase as a result of landlords Regus completes a review of the carrying value of its assets offering surplus space at discounted prices and companies annually to assess whether those carrying values can be seeking to reduce their costs by sub-letting space.
These supported by the net present value of future cashows factors could result in reduced revenue for the Group as the derived from such assets.
This review examines the continued prices it is able to charge customers would be reduced.
appropriateness of the assumptions in respect of which the carrying values of certain of the Groups assets are based.
This The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate this risk: includes an assessment of discount rates and long-term growth The Group has entered into performance based leases rates, and timing and quantum of future capital expenditure.
Due with landlords where rent costs vary with revenues earned to the Groups substantial carrying value of goodwill under IFRS, the revision of any of these assumptions to re ect current or by the centre.
anticipated changes in operations or the financial condition of the Building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic Group could lead to an impairment in the carrying value of certain intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they become assets in the Group.
While impairment does not impact reported onerous.
In cities with a number of centres this allows the cash ows, it does result in a non-cash charge in the consolidated Group to stagger leases such that an orderly reduction in income statement and thus no assurance can be given that any exposure to the location may be facilitated.
future impairments would not affect the Companys reported distributable reserves and therefore its ability to make distributions The pro le of clients in a centre is continually reviewed to to its shareholders or repurchase its shares.
avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients in a particular industry group.
The Groups geographic expansion may increase exposure to unpredictable economic, political and legal risks.
Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has a number Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets of options for mitigating losses, for example by closing centres historically are less predictable than in countries with more at lease break points.
As the Group increasingly enters into emerging markets, the value of the Groups investments may be adversely affected by political, economic and legal developments which are beyond the Groups control.
20 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
indd 20 07 04 2011 09:15 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder and Other Information Exposure to movements in exchange rates Internal controls The Group has signi cant overseas operations whose businesses The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining a are generally conducted in the currency of the country in which sound system of internal control and for periodically reviewing they operate.
The principal exposures of the Group are to the its effectiveness.
US dollar and the euro with approximately 38% of the Groups In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Report revenues being attributable to the US dollar and 18% to the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined euro respectively.
Code, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, Given that transactions generally take place in the functional managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
The currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to Groups system of internal controls is designed to: transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
However, the facilitate an effective and ef cient response to risks which translation into sterling of overseas pro ts and net assets will be might affect the achievement of the Groups objectives: affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event that either the US dollar or euro were to signi cantly depreciate or appreciate safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss or fraud: against sterling, this would have an adverse or bene cial impact help ensure the quality of internal and external financial on the Groups reported performance and position respectively.
reporting: and The financial risk management objectives and policies of the help ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to such risks are set out in note 23 of the Accounts.
Wherever possible, the No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance Group attempts to create natural hedges against currency against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system of exposures through matching income and expense and controls helps to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure assets and liabilities in the same currency.
to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented or Given the continued volatility in exchange rates in January 2009 will be detected in a timely manner for appropriate action.
the Board approved a policy which allows the Group to hedge, subject to strict limits, the rates at which overseas earnings are Strategy and risk management translated.
This will enable the Group to have more certainty The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups strategic over the sterling value of these earnings.
Country and regional strategic objectives, quarterly plans and performance targets for 2011 have been set by the Group Structure Executive Directors and are regularly reviewed by the main As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of central Board in the context of the Groups overall objectives.
administration head of ce in Luxembourg and being tax resident in Luxembourg, Regus plc is required to comply with There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business risks and addition, Regus plcs ordinary shares are listed on the Of cial their financial implications are appraised by the responsible List of the UKLA and admitted to trading on the main market Executives as a part of the budget process and these are endorsed of the London Stock Exchange.
It is possible that con icts may by regional management.
Key risks are reported to the Board and arise between the obligations of Regus plc under the laws of the Audit Committee.
The appropriateness of controls is considered each of these jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and by the executives, having regard to cost bene t, materiality and the the Listing Rules.
If an irreconcilable con ict were to occur then likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate Regus plc may not be able to maintain its status as a company those risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally tax resident in Luxembourg.
reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
The Group manages the risk that a signi cant tax liability could Control environment arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying out the High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at all Group reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to Group believes that under current laws and regulations the risk support this: of irreconcilable con icts between current laws and regulations impacting Regus plc is also low.
the induction process is used to educate new team members on the standards required from them in their role, including business Centrally managed applications and systems ethics and compliance, regulations and internal policies: The Group has moved to a centrally managed applications and systems environment with the resultant effect that all systems all team members are provided with a copy of the Team and applications are housed in a central data centre.
Should the Member Handbook which contains detailed guidance on data centre be impacted as a result of circumstances outside employee policies and the standards of behaviour required the Groups control there could be an adverse impact on the of staff: Groups operations and therefore its financial results.
This risk policies and procedures manuals and guidelines are readily is managed through a detailed service arrangement with our accessible through the Groups intranet site: and external data centre provider which incorporates appropriate back-up procedures and controls.
operational audit and self-certi cation tools which require individual centre managers to con rm their adherence to Group policies and procedures.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 www.
indd 21 07 04 2011 09:15 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy Regular staff communications include general information on to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and the business from senior management as well as operational staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
The Group has also established an externally hosted Sales staff and operational management periodically attend whistle-blowing channel to all staff to report issues and regional sales or management conferences at which information concerns in con dence.
on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present the key messages to employees who did not attend the event.
Control processes The Company has had procedures in place throughout the year Monitoring effectiveness and up to 21 March 2011, the date of approval of this Annual The following key mechanisms were available to the Board at Report, which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for various times during the year in the conduct of its review of Directors on the Combined Code.
These include the following: internal controls: The Board normally meets with regional executives every six Review of the Groups monthly management accounts which months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group and contain detailed analysis of financial performance for the Group regional financial performance, business development and each of the Groups geographic reporting segments: opportunities, Group infrastructure and general Group An ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, management issues: senior management meetings and divisional reviews as well The annual budget process is driven from senior management as other management meetings, for the formal identi cation of meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a detailed level by business signi cant operational risks and mitigating control processes: centre and roll-up at a country and regional level.
The Executive Internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings and Directors review regional budgets to ensure consistency with recommendations of each review are reported to regional strategic objectives, and the final budget is reviewed management and the Audit Committee: and approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the basis of business management throughout the year: Quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness Operational reports and financial reports are prepared and of investment activity: and distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual results are reviewed against budget and forecast and explanations are A bi-annual internal control self-assessment and management received for all material movements: certi cation exercise covering the effectiveness of financial and operational controls.
This is based on a comprehensive Key policies and control procedures including finance, operations, internal control questionnaire collated and reviewed by Internal and health and safety are documented in manuals having Audit.
Results and any necessary mitigating action plans are Group-wide application.
These are available to all staff on the presented to senior management and the Board.
Groups intranet system: Other matters The Board has formal procedures in place for the review and Board Performance Evaluation approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The Group A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board was Investment Committee comprising the Executive Directors carried out by the Chairman.
The aim is to ensure continuous reviews all investments prior to approval by the Board.
improvement in the functioning of the Board.
Additionally the form and content of investment proposals Arising from the review carried out in 2010, the Board has are standardised to facilitate the review process: agreed to ongoing development in the following areas: The Group has clearly delegated authority limits with regard Strategy planning at Board level: and to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders must be obtained in advance for all purchases in excess of 1,000: and Submission of information to the Board.
Numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales and Training and resources operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly basis to Appropriate training is made available for all new Directors to provide management at all levels with performance data for assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
Training their area of responsibility which helps them to focus on is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular needs with operational issues that may require their input.
the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
Information and communications processes During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, provided The senior management team are integrally involved in the updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, whilst business and to this extent regularly discuss and address issues the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
Formal developments through presentations from management, business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, are held with internal audit and the external auditors.
The Board programme the regional teams and functional heads on a monthly basis.
includes presentations from management which, together with site visits, increase the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the business and sector.
22 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
indd 22 07 04 2011 09:15 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder and Other Information All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Re-election of the Board Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that From 1 January 2011, all Directors submit themselves Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory for re-election by shareholders annually and Directors compliance are followed and complied with.
Should a Director appointed during the period are required to seek re-election request independent professional advice to carry out his duties, at the next AGM.
such advice is available to him at the Companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the re-election Directors and Of cers Insurance requirements and serve the Company under letters of The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually and appointment, which have an initial three-year term.
appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the Directors Compliance statement and senior management in the event of a claim being brought The Company has complied with the provisions set out in against any of them in their capacity as Directors and of cers section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended of the Company.
31 December 2010, with the exception of the following: Dialogue with shareholders Provision D. 1.1 The Senior Independent Non-Executive Regus reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with Director Lance Browne does not have regular meetings the interim results announced in August September and the with major external shareholders.
preliminary final results announced normally in March.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the Of cer to give presentations of these results to the Companys main conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent institutional investors, analysts and media in London and other Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Of cer meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, maintain a close dialogue with institutional investors on the at the time of major announcements.
The Chairman regularly Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
updates the Board and particularly the senior independent These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding non-executive director on the results of his meetings and the of the views and any concerns of the Companys major opinions of investors.
On this basis, Regus considers that the shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is able to gain full updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors have a standing request.
The principal communication with private shareholders invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
is through the Annual Report, the Interim Report and the AGM.
The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick Group plc as their Investor Relations adviser.
AGM The AGM will be held in May in Luxembourg and will be attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents, are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands.
Substantial resolutions of the shareholders require a poll to be taken.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website www.
Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 www.
