Directors corporate governance report 21 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Appointments to the Board governance.
This report, together with the Directors remuneration report With effect from 26th July 2010, the Nomination committee has been on page 23 sets out how the Company has applied the principles of the instituted as the committee responsible for reviewing the structure and Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the composition of the Board and nominating candidates for appointment Financial Reporting Council and contains the information required by to the Board.
Previously, there was a combined Remuneration and nomination committee.
A majority of the members of this committee are Section 7 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency independent non-executive directors and a list of membership and the Rules.
The UK Corporate Governance Code issued in June 2010, which replaces the Code, applies for financial years commencing on or after 29th chair of the committee is set out on page 5.
The terms of reference of this June 2010 and will therefore apply to the Company from 1st July 2010. committee are published on the Companys website.
The Company will report on compliance on the UK Corporate Governance No new appointments have been made to the Board during the year Code in its next annual report.
but the committee will be considering how the Board structure and composition will be affected by the retirement of Joe McGeehan from the A.
DIRECTORS Board with effect from the next AGM.
The Board The Board comprises five executive and four non-executive directors.
The The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office upon written request.
directors holding office at the date of this report and their biographical details are given on pages 4 and 5.
None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of effective business controls and review of business performance.
There is a formal Information and professional development schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include The Board receives appropriate documentation, management accounts, the approval of annual and interim results and interim management forecasts and commentaries thereon in advance of each Board meeting statements, company and business acquisitions and disposals, major to enable its members to review the financial performance of the Group, capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and current trading and key business initiatives.
company secretary appointments and removals, any patent-related dispute Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training courses and other material litigation, forecasts and major product development to update their knowledge of their duties as directors.
on changes to law and regulations are provided as appropriate.
NonThe Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties effectively.
executive directors are invited to attend internal conferences, which In the financial year ended 30th June 2010, the Board met ten times and provide information to the Group on new product development and the directors attendance record at Board and committee meetings is set marketing initiatives.
Business presentations are given at Board meetings out at the end of this report.
In addition, the non-executive directors met a to provide updates on product and business strategy.
All directors have number of times without executive directors present.
access to the company secretary and to independent professional advice at the Companys expense where necessary to discharge their The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit committee, responsibilities as directors.
the Remuneration committee and the Nomination committee.
Performance evaluation There is an executive committee known as the Executive Board that is The Board has established a formal process, led by the senior independent responsible for the executive management of the Groups businesses.
It is director, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and chaired by the Chairman and includes the executive directors of Renishaw the Chairman.
This includes the completion of a questionnaire designed plc and other senior management representatives.
and approved by the Board to provide a framework for the evaluation A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps out the structure process.
It is the role of the senior independent director to summarise of delegation below Board level and includes the matters reserved to the the responses and discuss them with individual directors and with the Executive Board.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors Board as a whole.
The requirement under the UK Corporate Governance and officers as disclosed in the Directors report.
Code that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years has been noted and the The Company amended its articles of association in October 2008 to implementation of this requirement will be considered by the Board.
deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in October 2008.
The Re-election Board adopted a conflict of interests policy, putting in place procedures In the spirit of best practice, the Board has decided that starting with for the disclosure and review of any conflicts and potential conflicts and this years AGM all directors will retire from the Board annually and, other authorisation by the Board if felt appropriate.
Authorisations granted and than in the case of any director who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer themselves up for re-election at the AGM.
the terms of such are reviewed on an annual basis.
New disclosures are made where applicable.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Chairman and Chief Executive The Directors remuneration report set out on page 23 explains how the The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and thus Company applies the Code principles relating to remuneration.
contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the Board C. ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT FINANCIAL REPORTING considers that there is still a clear division of responsibilities at Board level to The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in connection ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
with the financial statements are explained in the Statement of directors Board balance and independence responsibilities and the Independent auditors report.
Three of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be Going concern independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its or circumstances that are likely to affect the judgement of such nonfuture development, performance and position are set out in the Financial executive directors.
Joe McGeehan has served as a director since review on pages 10 to 14, where also given are details of the financial and January 2001 and therefore has been a member of the Board for over liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 in the financial statements includes 9 years and would not under the terms of the Code be considered the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, details of its independent.
He will be retiring at the next Annual General Meeting AGM financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to credit risk to be held on 14th October 2010. and liquidity risk.
The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The the directors have considered the current financial projections.
As a Board does not comply with this requirement as it considers the balance of consequence, the directors believe that the Group is well placed to the Board to be appropriate for the size of its business.
manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
With effect from 26th July 2010 the senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available to discuss concerns with shareholders should the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Annual report and accounts 2010 22 Directors corporate governance report continued Going concern continued The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Company may, in confidence, raise matters of concern, including that the Company and the Group have adequate resources possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit preparing the Annual report and accounts.
Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without executive Internal control directors present.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control D. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Dialogue with institutional shareholders achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not Presentations are given to institutional investors following publication absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
of the half-year and full-year results, following which interim reports There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
are published and annual reports are delivered to all shareholders.
There are also established and centrally documented control Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the Companys procedures, including, for example, capital and other expenditure, headquarters and manufacturing sites where they will meet at least information and technology security, and legal and regulatory one of the executive directors and have the opportunity of discussing compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
Meetings with investors, analysts and media The Group internal audit function provides independent and are reported at each Board meeting and analysts and brokers objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and reports circulated so that the Board develops an understanding of the effectively applied.
The Group Audit Manager attends Audit views of investors and others.
committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and the If requested, non-executive directors are available to attend meetings results of such internal audits.
Actions are monitored by the Audit with major shareholders.
All directors attend the AGM at which they committee on an ongoing basis.
have the opportunity to meet with shareholders.
There is a process for the review of business risks throughout the Constructive use of the AGM Group.
These are reported on a monthly basis by senior management The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters and formal and overseas subsidiaries.
These reports are reviewed by the Board notification is sent to the shareholders at least 20 working days before at each of its meetings.
A business presentation is given at the meeting and all The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls over directors are available for questions during and after the meeting.
the financial reporting and consolidation processes.
Monthly Tours of the Companys facilities are offered.
accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board for review.
The The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on Group internal audit function undertakes a programme of review each resolution, the balance for and against each resolution and the of subsidiaries accounting processes and performance to provide number of abstentions after the resolution has been dealt with on assurance to the Board on the integrity of the information supplied a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders by each company which forms part of the consolidated results of attending the AGM and published on the Companys website the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness FSA DISCLOSURE RULE DTR 7.2.
6 R of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk The information regarding share capital required to be disclosed by and controls analysis for the Group.
The review covers all material this rule is contained in the Directors report.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, ATTENDANCE RECORD evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the Group that Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of has been in place during the year, is regularly reviewed and accords the Board and its committees at which the director was present and, with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms that necessary in brackets, the number of meetings that the director was eligible to action has been or is being taken to remedy any significant failings or attend during the year.
weaknesses identified from its review.
Remuneration & Audit committee and auditors Audit nomination The Audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors.
A Director Board committee committee list of the members and the chairman is set out on page 5.
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee have recent Sir David McMurtry 10 10 - - and relevant financial experience, being Terry Garthwaite and David D J Deer 9 10 - - Snowden.
The terms of reference of this committee were reviewed B R Taylor 10 10 - - during the year and are available on the Companys website.
A C G Roberts 10 10 - - The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its annual and interim financial statements before submission G McFarland 10 10 - - to the Board and its compliance with statutory requirements.
The J P McGeehan 9 10 2 3 1 1 committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements T D Snowden 8 10 3 3 1 1 and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews T B Garthwaite 10 10 3 3 1 1 the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and W H Whiteley 9 10 2 3 0 1 internal audit function.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The committee has primary responsibility for making the The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of the recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of Code throughout the year except in relation to the following matters external auditors, which the Board puts to shareholders for approval the reasons for non-compliance are stated in the report above : at the AGM.
the combined role of chairman and chief executive: and It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors.
at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not comprise The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on an annual independent non-executive directors.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on the N Tang balance of audit to non-audit fees.
