Governance 29 Board corporate governance statement Put simply, the highest standards of governance are critical to the boards ability to do its job.
They underpin the boards objectivity and effectiveness in carrying out its duties covering the oversight and reporting of business performance, risk management, executive remuneration, succession planning and ensuring that business is conducted responsibly with a proactive approach to sustainability.
John McAdam Chairman Board composition and independence The board has authorised a number of potential conflicts of interest regarding the non-executive directors.
These potential The board currently comprises the chairman, six independent conflicts are not material either to the company or, the directors non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The only believe, to the other companies that are the subject of the potential changes in the composition of the board during the year were the conflict.
Authorised conflicts are reviewed by the board periodiresignation of Michael Murray as a director and chief financial cally.
The process for authorising potential conflicts is reviewed officer at the end of March 2010 and the appointment of Jeremy by the nomination committee and described in the nomination Townsend as a director and chief financial officer at the end of committee report below.
August 2010, with our chief executive, Alan Brown, taking board responsibility for financial matters in the intervening months.
The boards policy is to appoint and retain non-executive directors who can apply their wider knowledge and experience to their The chairman, John McAdam, is not classified as independent.
understanding of the companys affairs.
Appointments to the The board regards Peter Long, Peter Bamford, Richard Burrows, board are made on the recommendation of the nomination Alan Giles, William Rucker and Duncan Tatton-Brown as being committee following a rigorous selection process.
New members independent in all circumstances which are likely to affect, or of the board receive appropriate training and induction which could appear to affect, their judgement in carrying out their includes spending time in the companys operations.
The senior independent director, Peter Long, is available to be In the ordinary course, each non-executive director serves for consulted by shareholders should they have concerns that they are a fixed term not exceeding three years that may be renewed by unable to resolve through normal channels.
He is also responsible mutual agreement for a further two terms of three years, subject to for leading the performance review process in respect of the the board being satisfied with a directors performance, independchairman, further details of which are provided below.
Peter Long was appointed in October 2002 and serves as the senior independent director and as chairman of There have been no changes in the board since the year end.
He will have served as a director for The board continues at the date of this report to consist of the nine years in October 2011.
Peter Long continues to demonstrate chairman, six independent non-executive directors and three independence of mind and an effective challenge to management non-independent executive directors.
and most importantly has a detailed knowledge of the challenges facing the company over the next several years.
The board is fully supportive of him being re-elected as a director at the annual general meeting in 2011.
The UK corporate governance code, which will apply to the companys next annual report, provides that all directors should submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis and the board has decided that all directors will submit themselves for re-election at the 2011 annual general meeting.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 30 29 Board composition 30 Nomination 31 Corporate 33 Corporate Corporate governance and independence committee governance across governance Board corporate governance statement 30 Board effectiveness31 Attendance the group compliance 30 Board committees at meetings32 The management statement 30 Audit committee31 Performance of risk35 Board internal 30 Remuneration evaluation32 Engaging with control statement committee shareholders Board effectiveness Audit committee The board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved Throughout 2010 the audit committee comprised, Duncan for its decision including: strategy, risk evaluation, the review Tatton-Brown, Peter Bamford and William Rucker, all of whom are and approval of the financial statements, significant changes independent non-executive directors.
The committee chairman, in accounting policies, remuneration of the companys auditors Duncan Tatton-Brown and William Rucker are considered by the delegated from shareholders, external reporting, approval board to have recent and relevant financial experience, details of the annual operating plan and major transactions and other of which are set out on page 22.
The company secretary acts as major capital transactions above the level delegated to the secretary to the committee.
The chairman, chief executive and chief executive.
chief financial officer, the group controller, the director of internal audit and representatives of the companys auditors attend by The board held ten meetings in 2010 and one two-day meeting invitation.
The committee meets routinely four times a year and in November to review and update the groups strategic plan.
additionally when necessary and also meets the companys The board has a rolling programme of items for discussion which auditors and director of internal audit without executive directors ensures that all matters reserved for its attention and other present.
Details of the committees responsibilities and activities key issues are considered by the board at appropriate times.
during the year are set out in the audit committee report on For example, during the year the board was briefed by senior pages 36 to 38. executives on operational priorities and financial performance in operating divisions.
The chairman, supported by the company secretary, ensures that the board is kept properly informed and Remuneration committee that all matters reserved to it are given appropriate attention.
Throughout 2010 the remuneration committee comprised Peter Board papers and other information and resources are provided Long, Richard Burrows and Alan Giles, all of whom are independent in sufficient time to allow directors to be properly briefed in non-executive directors.
The company secretary acts as secretary advance of meetings.
Advice on remuneration matters is provided to In 2010, the board visited the groups largest textiles and hygiene the committee both from the companys human resources director business, which is based in France, as part of an ongoing programme and independently by Deloitte LLP, who act as independent through which the board visits operations in the UK and overseas.
The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the board on the companys policy on the remuneration of executive directors and of the Board committees senior management population.
The committee also considers and The board reviewed the terms of reference for the nomination determines specific remuneration packages for executive directors committee, the audit committee and the remuneration and for senior executives reporting to the chief executive.
The committee during the year and a number of relatively minor committee also considers and authorises incentive arrangements changes were approved during the boards annual review of its for executive directors and senior executives reporting to the chief governance procedures and practices.
Agendas, papers and executive and also considers and authorises any payments on minutes of committee meetings are generally provided to all termination of employment and related benefits to those individuboard members for information and comment.
Further information on the activities of the committee and on the membership of the committees and their activities as well audited information on directors remuneration, benefits and as directors attendance is set out in the following pages.
Copies of long-term incentive arrangements is provided in the directors the current terms of reference for the principal board committees remuneration report on pages 40 to 47.
A resolution to approve are available on the companys website, www.
com the directors remuneration report will be proposed at the or on application to the company secretary.
In addition to the principal board committees audit, remuneration and nomination the board operates a number of ad hoc commitNomination committee tees dealing with specific matters.
The main ad hoc committee Throughout the year the nomination committee comprised being the finance committee which comprises the chairman, the John McAdam, Peter Long, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Alan Giles.
chief executive, the chief financial officer and three non-executive The committee is chaired by John McAdam who, while not an directors with relevant financial experience.
The finance commitindependent director, is considered by the board to be the tee reviews matters concerning company financing and group appropriate person to chair the boards nomination committee.
treasury policy and makes recommendations to the board on specific financing matters referred to it.
The committee has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the board and for reviewing succession Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 31 Corporate governance Board corporate governance statement planning amongst the senior management population and for The report also drew out a number of areas where some changes reviewing the boards process for considering and authorising in board and audit committee oversight of the risk management directors potential conflicts of interest.
and internal control framework could be improved, on which the chief financial officer was giving attention.
The board acknowledged that gender diversity would be an active consideration when Attendance at meetings changes in the boards composition were next contemplated.
The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings Individual director evaluation showed that the directors, all of during 2010 is shown in the following table.
whom would be seeking re-election at the annual general meeting in 2011, continued to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Audit Remuneration Nomination The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent Directors Board Committee Committee Committee director, Peter Long, carried out a performance evaluation of John McAdam 10 10 4 4 the chairman after taking account of the views of the executive Alan Brown 10 10 directors.
The review concluded that the chairmanship of meetings Jeremy Townsend 4 4 and the leadership of the board was conducted effectively.
Andy Ransom 10 10 The board intends to carry out further performance evaluations Duncan Tatton-Brown 9 10 6 6 3 4 on a regular basis.
Richard Burrows 8 10 5 6 William Rucker 10 10 6 6 Corporate governance across the group Peter Long 9 10 5 6 3 4 The directors apply a governance approach that currently complies Peter Bamford 10 10 6 6 with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate GovernAlan Giles 10 10 6 6 4 4 ance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 Michael Murray 1 1 the Combined Code.
An analysis of compliance is set out in the table on pages 33 and 34.
The company will be adopting the 2010 Total number of meetings 10 6 6 4 UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of the 2011 financial Prior to his appointment, Jeremy Townsend attended by invitation a board year.
A copy of the UK corporate governance codes can be obtained meeting in June 2010. from www.
The board has delegated to the chief executive the development Performance evaluation and execution of strategy as well as the day-to-day management The evaluation conducted in 2009 concluded that the board and of the groups businesses.
The chief executive is supported by the principal committees were functioning effectively and that the heads of the groups operating divisions and of the finance, individual director performance including that of the chairman was human resources and information services functions that together effective.
It was agreed that in 2010 the evaluation process would comprise the companys executive board under the chief execube focused on a more limited range of topics and conducted by tives chairmanship.
They meet 5 6 times a year to review perforexternal advisers who tailored the information gathering element mance, priorities and operational actions.
In addition, the chief of the process to the boards specific requirements.
The individual executive and chief financial officer lead monthly and quarterly director and committee evaluation processes were constructed on business performance reviews with local management teams.
the basis recommended by the external advisers.
The 2010 report The groups change programmes are monitored by a programme from the external advisers was reviewed by the board.
board chaired by the chief executive.
The HR, Finance and IT functions each has a governance structure that oversees the The report covered the boards composition, expertise, dynamics, delivery of functional change programmes to drive capability support arrangements, oversight of strategy, risk management and improvements across the group.
control, succession planning and human resource management all in the context of the boards priorities over the coming year.
In The governance process in the business units comprises the general the report concluded that the directors had the appropriapplication of group and local policies and procedures, manageate range of skills and experience and constituted an effective and ment oversight, the analysis and management of risk, all underunified board.
The report noted that the board currently lacked pinned by the groups values and behaviours.
This framework is gender diversity and had limited international diversity in its designed to ensure that decisions are taken at the right time by membership although acknowledged that the board contained colleagues with appropriate authority, after considering all relevant substantial international operational experience which gave factors from commercial to reputational.
The group operates the board the appropriate international reach and experience.
through locally constituted and governed legal entities in some Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 32 Corporate governance Board corporate governance statement 50 countries.
Corporate entities are managed in compliance with framework in a small number of businesses have highlighted local law and regulation and under principles set out in the groups weaknesses both of capability and systems which have required code of conduct.
The groups internal control framework is corrective actions.
Lessons learned in individual cases are described below.
discussed by the audit committee and reviewed by the board.
The chief executive has board level responsibility for all corporate responsibility matters.
The board and the companys executive Engaging with shareholders board review, at least annually, the groups corporate responsibility The company places great importance on communications with performance.
The groups corporate responsibility performance shareholders, including with employee shareholders, and the is set out in the corporate responsibility report below and more chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer make themextensively in the groups web-based corporate responsibility selves available to shareholders at all appropriate times.
The report which can be found at www.
company has a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders through one-to-one and group meetings, formal investor and The management of risk analyst conference calls as well as ad hoc communications, where appropriate.
The board has responsibility for evaluating and reviewing the overall level of risk that is inherent in its strategy and for the Formal presentations are held after full year and half year results, execution of that strategy and specifically owns the risks attaching to which investors and sell buy side analysts are invited.
These to the matters reserved for its own decision.
The board reviews presentations are web-cast and any investor is able to hear the the strategic risks facing the group as part of its annual review of presentation and related questions and answers via the companys strategy and operational risks are reviewed routinely.
Accompanying slide presentations are hosted on the external risk factor continues to be the economic and competitive companys website as are recordings of meetings.
Conference environments in the territories in which the company chooses calls for investors and analysts are hosted after the first and third to operate which are routinely considered by the board when quarter trading updates, with typical levels of participation in reviewing business performance.
Collectively, the execution excess of 80 shareholder and analysts.
Investor road shows are of change programmes and managements capability to deliver conducted after full year and interim results, involving extensive change is a key risk and is the subject of regular board review.
investor meetings on each occasion.
The chairman and senior An assessment of risk is intrinsic to individual decisions concerning independent director are available to attend meetings with investment, organisational changes and commercial issues such investors, as required.
The company also provides opportunities as entry into new markets or territories.
for private client investor presentations across the UK.
The board has delegated to the audit committee the role of The company sees the annual general meeting as an important assessing the effectiveness of the groups internal control opportunity for all shareholders to engage with the board over processes as well as reviewing the risk mapping methodology used performance and other matters on the agenda for the meeting and to identify generic or business specific risks and the management encourages both private and institutional shareholders to attend.
actions taken to mitigate specific risks.
This process provides the In 2010, the Chairman led a programme of investor meetings audit committee with an analysis of the gross and net after involving the chief executive and chief financial officer and the mitigating actions risk taken by the group.
The board makes its company secretary for small groups of leading shareholders held assessment of whether the residual risk is acceptable based on this principally to take have an exchange of views on the evolving analysis.
As an additional analysis of risk, risks have been mapped corporate governance environment.
against the groups five strategic thrusts.
The board is briefed on the companys investor relations programme The board also delegates to the audit committee stewardship through a comprehensive quarterly report from the head of investor of the internal and external assurance processes that test the relations who is responsible for day-to-day communications with effectiveness of the control and risk mitigation framework.
shareholders and the financial community as well as by periodic The committee reports on these matters to the board on a regular updates from the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
In basis but it remains the boards responsibility to be satisfied with addition, published broker reports are provided to the board.
The the level of assurance gained over individual risks.
companys financial and investor relations advisers also maintain a The board gains its confidence over the effectiveness of control regular dialogue with major shareholders and reports are provided processes through regular and transparent management reporting, to the board on investors views on key issues and management through the governance processes of the group and from the performance following major investor presentations of results.
external and internal assurance processes the output of which The companys annual report and other investor presentation is reported to the audit committee and available to the board.
material is available to all shareholders via the companys website As reported elsewhere in this report, failings in the control at www.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 33 Corporate governance Board corporate governance statement Corporate governance compliance The chief executive has delegated authority from the board to manage the company, subject to the strategic direction of the statement board.
He is also responsible for the achievement of the objectives During the year ended 31 December 2010 the company complied set by the board and preparing an overall strategy for the company with all relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
This report and to achieve such objectives and the implementation of the overall the following committee reports, the directors remuneration strategy decided by the board.
report and the summary table below together describe how the Section A3 Board balance and independence company applied the main and supporting principles of the a balance of executive and non-executive directors Combined Code during the year.
An extract of the relevant in particular independent NEDs Combined Code provision is shown in italics.
The companys annual Information on the balance of the board is set out earlier report for 2011 will report on the companys compliance with the in this report.
The board regards Peter Long, Peter Bamford, Richard Burrows, Directors and board Alan Giles, William Rucker and Duncan Tatton-Brown as independSection A1 the board an effective board collectively responsible ent non-executive directors.
for the success of the company The board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction The board has appointed Peter Long to act as senior independent and control of the company and specifically reserves certain director whose main responsibility is to be available to shareholdmatters for its consideration.
The schedule of matters reserved to ers should they have concerns that they are unable to resolve the board for its own and its committees decisions covers matters through normal channels and for leading the performance review such as strategy: risk appetite: the control environment: major process in respect of the chairman.
investment decisions: financial reporting: accounting policies and Section A4 Appointments to the board the capital structure.
These are set out in governance procedures formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment and practices manual which is reviewed annually.
The current of new directors expected time commitments of NEDs schedule of matters reserved formally to the board is available The companys articles of association set out the powers of in the corporate governance area of the investor relations removal, appointment, election and re-election of directors.
The section of the companys website or on application to the process for nomination to the board and for considering succession company secretary.
planning is set out in the nomination committees report.
The The board meets routinely nine times a year and additionally when board continues to satisfy itself that the chairman has sufficient necessary and follows an agreed formal schedule of matters which time available to devote to his duties.
The letters of appointment are considered at individual meetings.
In 2010, the board met of the chairman and other non-executive directors set out the on ten occasions.
Details of directors attendance at board and expected minimum time commitment to the company, which principal committee meetings are set out in this report.
in general covers days required for meetings plus a further day per meeting for preparation and other training or company Section A2 chairman and chief executive clear division related activities.
of responsibilities The role of the chairman, John McAdam, is set out in his letter of Section A5 Information and professional development appointment and is included in boards governance procedures and timely quality information induction on joining practices manual.
The chairmans priority is the management of regular update of skills and knowledge the board whereas the chief executives priority is the management Material is provided to the board in a timely manner and in of the company.
The chairman received an award under the 2008 appropriate detail to enable it to discharge its duties and to give Share Incentive Plan, which was formally approved by shareholders appropriate challenge to executive management.
In addition, at the time of his appointment.
As a consequence of this one-off executive directors and senior executives of the company provide award, he is not regarded as independent under the provisions such additional information, as is required by the board, on specific of the Combined Code.
The chairmans main interests outside the business issues or on functional or technical developments that company are set out in his biographical details on page 22. are material to the groups operations as a whole.
The company maintains a director induction programme which operated in 2010 following the appointment of Jeremy Townsend as chief financial officer, through which an extensive familiarisation process was undertaken which included not only briefings on all aspects of the groups operations but also visits to key operational Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 34 Corporate governance Board corporate governance statement sites and functional locations.
The group HR director facilitates Accountability and audit the induction process.
Section C1 Financial reporting present balanced and understandable assessment of The board and its committees are supported by the company position and prospects secretary who, under the direction of the chairman, advises the A report from the audit committee is provided on pages 36 to 38. board on all governance matters and helps ensure good communiIt is the audit committees responsibility to ensure that reporting cation and information flows within the board, including between meets the standards of transparency and balance that are required.
executive and non-executive directors and between the board A going concern statement is provided to shareholders in the and its committees.
Section A6 Performance evaluation Section C2 Internal control formal and rigorous annual valuation of its own performance sound system of internal control The board and the audit, remuneration and nomination commitThe boards statement and commentary on its review of the tees complete an annual evaluation of their performance as do effectiveness of the groups system of internal control is set the directors of their own performance.
In 2010, the evaluation out in this report below.
was conducted with the assistance of an external facilitator.
The process was initiated by a targeted questionnaire completed by Section C3 Audit committee and auditors each director giving an assessment of individual performances and formal and transparent arrangements for the boards functioning as a whole.
The results are considered by applying financial reporting and internal control principles the board and by each committee during February of each year.
The role of the audit committee and the conduct of the relation - As a part of the process, the chairman discusses any issues ship with the auditors is set out in the audit committee report which arose during the process with each director individually.
The chairman also discussed with each director the ongoing Relations with shareholders professional development needs which might enhance individual Section D1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders performance.
The chairman appraises the performance of the dialogue based on mutual understanding of objectives chief executive and the senior independent director appraises The chief executive and chief financial officer hold regular the performance of the chairman and discusses with the chairman meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders to discuss any issues arising from the appraisal process.
the companys strategy and financial performance.
The board is Remuneration regularly provided with an analysis of the companys shareholder Section B1 the level and make up of remuneration base and with commentary on market views and sentiment.
levels sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors The chairman, the senior independent director and other nonavoid paying more than is necessary significant proportion executive directors make themselves available for discussions of remuneration to the variable with shareholders as required by circumstances or as requested The directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 47 sets out by shareholders.
the policies and practices which demonstrate the companys Section D2 Constructive use of annual general meeting implementation of the Code principles and provisions.
use AGM to communicate with investors and encourage Section B2 Remuneration procedure their participation formal and transparent procedure Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM which offers The remuneration committees processes and procedures are an opportunity for all shareholders to ask questions and provide described in the directors remuneration report.
The committee comments on the companys strategy, the performance of the meets when required and usually at least four times annually.
The business and any other matter which is within the scope of the remuneration committees terms of reference which are described meeting.
The company provides electronic proxy voting on in the report are available on the companys website and the report resolutions and in 2010 adopted the process of all resolutions being also sets out the terms relating to the appointment and remuneraconducted through a poll, giving all shareholders voting by proxy tion of non-executive directors.
the opportunity to participate in voting on the day of the meeting.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 35 Corporate governance Board corporate governance statement Through the monitoring processes set out above, the board has Board internal control statement The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls control during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The system is and risk management and also for reviewing its effectiveness.
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, risk and can only To discharge these responsibilities, the board has established the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material processes necessary to comply with the UK governance regime, misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion including having clear lines of responsibility, documented levels of the board, indicated that the system overall was satisfactory.
of delegated authority and appropriate operating procedures.
In relation to instances of individual failings in control environThis framework represents a continuous process for evaluating ments, actions have been or are being taken to remedy identified and managing the control-related risks the group faces.
The audit committee and the board have process has been in place from the start of 2010 to the date of received reports from management on individual instances.
It has been reviewed by the board and Refining the internal control framework is iterative and improveaccords with the Turnbull guidance for directors.
ment measures are continually under review.
The company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to its financial reporting process and the processes for the preparation of financial statements.
These On behalf of the board, systems are designed to facilitate the proper collection and recording of financial data in order to give reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded in a way that will allow financial information to be prepared in compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
Business performance is monitored through processes which include the supervision of the groups business operations by Paul Griffiths executive management, through monthly and quarterly business Secretary performance reviews, the results of which are reported to the 14 March 2011 board on a regular basis.
Management and financial information is delivered to the board through a comprehensive financial planning, accounting and reporting process.
The monitoring of controls includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management processes.
The audit committee assists the board in the performance of its responsibilities by reviewing the board procedures as they relate to internal controls and risk management processes.
The committee also considers internal and external auditors reports on internal control issues and internal control and risk management systems and reports its findings to the board.
A report on the activities of the audit committee in 2010 is reported below and further information on the risk management and internal control processes can be found in the financial review on pages 19 to 21 and in the business review on pages 12 to 18.
As reported in 2009 the company is engaged in a process of modernising and standardising its business processes over a three to five-year period which will enhance and improve the control environment by removing many non-standard processes.
In addition, the company has introduced a more standard approach towards the management of projects which is being embedded across the group.
The calibre of financial management within the group has been strengthened significantly but continues to be an area of focus.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
