Governance 39 Nomination committee report The nomination committee provides a focus for the key task of ensuring that there are proper plans in place to ensure that the board continues to comprise a group of individuals who work effectively together as a team and who possess the right mix of experience and talent to provide effective oversight and challenge to management on behalf of shareholders as well as to deal with individual appointments as they arise.
John McAdam Chairman, Nomination Committee Terms of reference HR director on the more general aim of ensuring that employees with the required skills and experience are developed for the future The main purpose of the nomination committee the committee and adequate procedures are in place to encourage the developis to assist the board by keeping its composition under review and ment of talent across the group.
conducting a rigorous and transparent process when making or renewing appointments of directors to the board.
During the year In order to satisfy itself that it would be appropriate for all directors the board approved an adjustment to the committees terms of to submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting, reference to make clear the duty to consider diversity issues when the committee reviewed the results of the board evaluation contemplating board appointments.
process, including the assessment of individual independence and commitment.
The committee noted that Peter Long who took no part in the discussion would have served three consecutive terms Membership, meetings and attendance of three years as a non-executive director in October 2011 but Membership has not changed during the year and comprises: the agreed that it would be extremely valuable to retain Peter Longs chairman, John McAdam, the senior independent director, Peter detailed knowledge of the range of issues that have affected the Long and the next two longest serving non-executive directors, company in recent years.
Duncan Tatton-Brown and Alan Giles.
The nomination committee In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the committee met on four occasions during the year.
reviewed the process conducted by the company for identifying and considering potential conflicts of interest and concluded that Activities the process which was introduced in 2008 remains effective.
The The committee oversaw the process of identifying an appropriate review consisted of considering a report from the secretary and candidate to join the board as chief financial officer and with the reviewing the process and the related documentation, including assistance of external advisers put forward to the board a proposal the questionnaire provided to directors.
The committee also that Jeremy Townsend should be appointed chief financial officer.
reviewed the current authorised potential conflicts of directors The proposal followed a rigorous and transparent selection process and was satisfied that the authorisations remained appropriate.
which involved all members of the committee as well as other members of the board.
Jeremy Townsend was appointed to the Committee evaluation board at the end of August 2010.
In common with the processes conducted by other committees, The committee has specific responsibilities for succession planning the committee with the assistance of an external facilitator, has to ensure that the board has the correct balance of individuals to conducted a review of how it operates which concluded that the discharge its duties effectively.
During the year, the committee was committee operates effectively.
briefed on succession planning issues relating to executive director On behalf of the board, and senior management roles and satisfied itself that action plans are in place to deal with longer term and, as far as is practicable, unexpected short-term gaps or weaknesses in the executive team.
John McAdam The committee is principally concerned with roles at board level Chairman, Nomination Committee and at the level below.
The board as a whole is briefed by the group 14 March 2011 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
