36 Audit committee report The aim of the committee is to ensure high standards of corporate controls, risk management, reporting and compliance to enhance the effectiveness of control processes and to reduce risk.
The committee makes recommendations to the board on reporting, control, risk management and compliance and provides independent monitoring and challenge to executive management in the committees area of responsibility.
Duncan Tatton-Brown Committee chairman Terms of reference Membership, meetings and attendance The terms of reference of the audit committee the committee The membership of the committee and details of the number of require it to review the appropriateness and effectiveness of the meetings held and attendance at each during the year are set out companys external financial reporting and its internal control and earlier in this corporate governance statement.
The committee risk management processes.
They also place upon the committee meets quarterly and additionally when necessary and during 2010 the responsibility of overseeing the appointment and performance met on six occasions.
The committee invites the chairman, the of the external auditors, the scope of their duties, their independchief executive, the chief financial officer, the group controller, ence and also to approve the appointment of the head of internal the director of internal audit and representatives of the external audit and to receive and act upon reports from the external and auditors to attend its meetings.
The company secretary attends internal auditors.
The committee has unrestricted access both meetings in his role as secretary of the committee.
to the external auditors and to the head of internal audit.
The During the year, the committee has had a dialogue with the activities of the companys risk committee are reported to the external auditors without executives present.
committee by the chief financial officer providing additional support to the committee in carrying out its duty to oversee on Activities behalf of the board the internal control framework of the group.
A summary of the committees activities during the year is set The committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated out below.
by the board during 2010 and a copy is available on the companys website or by application to the company secretary.
The commitFinancial reporting and external audit tees terms of reference take full account of the Smith guidance The committee reviewed and approved the companys annual and on the role of audit committees.
The committee did not find it interim financial statements and first and third quarter trading necessary to seek external advice during the year, other than updates after reviewing reports on the financial information prepared through its dialogue with the external auditors.
The committee received reports routinely on the current status of material litigation to gain comfort that potential financial exposures had been appropriately dealt with in the financial statements.
The committee also considered an analysis demonstrating that it was appropriate for the company to prepare its accounts on a going concern basis.
The committee also reviewed and approved a paper proposing the reappointment of KPMG as the companys auditors at the 2010 AGM.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 37 Corporate governance Audit committee report As part of the committees responsibility to monitor the independmanagement processes relating to the commencement and ence of the external auditors the committee reviewed the monitoring of individual projects forming part of the Programme companys existing policy on the provision of non-audit services Olympic work streams and also reviewed the process developed by the companys auditors and approved a minor clarification in 2010 of a standardised approach to business continuity in the policy.
The committee regularly reviews a schedule of management across the group.
non-audit matters carried out by the auditors which mainly The committee reviewed the measures the company had in place relate to technical advice on taxation and other matters together and was introducing to ensure that there were appropriate with a limited amount of investigation activity.
The level of processes to combat the risk of individuals committing acts that non-audit fees incurred in the year is described in note 4 to the would be regarded under any jurisdiction as corrupt.
This included accounts on page 71. the approval of a new anti-corruption policy that would supplement The committee considered a report setting out the findings of an the groups updated code of conduct on business ethics, distributed internal evaluation of the 2009 audit process, which was the first in 2010 to the management population and, in a simplified format, audit conducted by KPMG.
The results showed that overall the to colleagues worldwide.
The committee was updated on the audit was considered to have met expectations.
The auditors groups management of its corporate tax arrangements, including presented to the committee the audit strategy for 2010 which the level of tax risks within the group and was satisfied that the set out the areas of audit focus.
The committee considers that groups tax management was compliant with the risk tolerance set the companys auditors remain independent.
out in the groups tax policy previously approved by the board.
Risk Internal control In the governance section above the boards approach to risk During the year the committee received presentations on the management has been summarised and set out below are some status of the internal control environment from the finance of the committees actions on risk management during the year.
directors of the Asia Pacific division, the Textiles & Hygiene division and also of the Pest Control division.
Early in the year, the committee considered a paper on the development of the group assurance map, which had been During the year the company suffered from a breakdown in the amended to more clearly identify the specific risks in business units control environment in the Philippines business, which although and the effectiveness of management responses alongside the not significant to the group as a whole triggered a thorough proposed internal audit work in relation to the risks and the levels review of systems and processes in the Philippines business of assurance to be gained for each risk.
utilising both internal and external resources.
The committee reviewed on more than one occasion the circumstances of the Later in the year, the committee reviewed the approach taken by breakdown and assessed implications for the groups control the company to identify risks facing individual business units and framework in the region.
The committee reviewed the assessment made by management of the mitigating actions in place to identify The Textiles & Hygiene division made a number of appointments the net residual risk taken in each of a range of matters relating to to improve the quality of financial leadership.
However, the the groups businesses, using assurance mapping methodology.
Benelux businesses in particular suffered from relatively weak The net risk position formed the basis of the groups internal audit financial management and some control failings in respect of which plan for 2011.
During the year the company categorised risk against action was initiated during the year.
each of the groups strategic thrusts.
The committee found that The committee reviewed the work underway as part of Programme the additional categorisation was a helpful tool in the analysis of Olympic to modernise the financial and other transactional processrisk.
In relation to the group as a whole, the principal risks ing activities of the group, through the gradual creation of shared continued to relate to economic and market conditions and to service centres.
These are being established in the UK, Germany, the overall delivery of the operational excellence programme Switzerland, Austria, the Benelux area, Spain and in Scandinavia.
and the related issue of the capability of management to deliver These changes are designed to improve the control environment change anticipated in the groups strategic plan, further details and reduce risk as well as delivering operational efficiencies.
on which are provided in the risks and uncertainties section on The committee considered a paper prepared to assist the commitpages 16 to 18. tee and the board in carrying out its review of the effectiveness of The committee was updated on the activities of the groups risk the groups system of internal controls.
The paper set out the risk committee which had been re-constituted during the year to management process together with other measures such as the provide improved efficiency over the provision of functionally-led control self-assessment process, quarterly representation letters control mechanisms.
The risk committee had reviewed the risk from business unit managers, the incidence of control failings and Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 38 Corporate governance Audit committee report weaknesses and internal control developments during 2010.
The committee reviewed the proposed statement to be provided to shareholders and confirmed that the statement was appropriate.
Internal audit During the year the groups internal audit resources were strengthened.
Since the appointment of KPMG in September 2009 the internal audit function has utilised the output of the financial controls testing carried out by the external auditors to more efficiently target internal audit resources to deliver an improved level of assurance.
At each meeting the committee considered reports from the director of internal audit on control incidents including any matter which arose under the groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
No incident was material to the group as a whole.
Any whistleblowing report is investigated by the groups internal audit function and the outcome reported to the committee.
At each meeting, the committee considers a report on the status of internal audit review outcomes and the progress of their resolution.
Primary responsibility for the adequacy of the financial control environment rests with line management, with the internal audit function and the results of the external auditors controls testing programmes providing the committee with assurance.
Committee evaluation The committee conducted a review of its effectiveness which in 2010 was supported by an external evaluator.
The review concluded that the committee had received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities and highlighted some areas to improve the effectiveness of the committees oversight of the control environment and associated assurance processes.
The result of the evaluation process was reported to the board early in 2011.
On behalf of the board, Duncan Tatton-Brown Chairman, Audit Committee 14 March 2011 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
