54 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report corporate governance good governance compliance The Rexam board believes there is a link This corporate governance report has been prepared in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance between high standards of governance issued in 2008 the Code by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Code can be viewed on www.
The board has also and the creation of shareholder value, considered, in advance of the commencement date, the principles and provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and is committed to promoting governance the New Code published by the FRC in May 2010.
This report, which is meaningful and relevant.
being part of the directors report which includes the business review and the remuneration report, provides a summary of the Sir Peter Ellwood Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code and chairman the extent to which such principles have been applied.
Throughout the period 1 January to 31 December 2010 the Company has been fully compliant with the Code.
The board believes it has put policies in place so that the Company is fully compliant with the New Code from 1 January 2011. leadership the role of the board The boards primary role is to ensure the sustainable long term success of the Group, which it does through its focused leadership, and the development, review and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Its other roles are to maintain control over the Groups assets, to monitor performance of management and succession planning, to establish high ethical standards of behaviour, to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices and procedures, and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The board also ensures that the strategy is in the best interests of the Groups customers, suppliers, employees and the local communities in which Rexam operates.
Matters referred to the board are considered by the board as a whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
There are well documented procedures and controls, including a formal schedule of matters that require the boards specific approval.
This schedule provides the framework for the matters to be decided by the board and those which can be delegated to committees of the board or senior management.
schedule of matters reserved for the board Board appointments and removals Changes to the Groups management and control structure The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses Matters relating to the Companys share listing Material financial decisions relating to equity, marketable securities, borrowing facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in accounting policy or practice All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital expenditure project which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups financial criteria The appointment and removal of principal advisors and external auditors 55 non executive directors board membership and meetings 2010 held attended Rexam has six non executive directors, including the chairman, 9 whose role is to understand the business and its markets, Sir Peter Ellwood chairman of the board 9 consider proposals on strategy and constructively challenge the Graham Chipchase 9 management.
They contribute wide experience and objective Noreen Doyle 9 perspective and through the board committees bring focus on John Langston 9 governance and succession planning, internal controls, risk management policies and remuneration.
Wolfgang Meusburger 9 David Robbie 9 Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
Jean-Pierre Rodier 9 On appointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that Carl Symon 8 the non executive director has sufficient time to fulfil his or her role on the board.
The Company operates through its main board committees namely the audit and risk formerly the audit committee and the Carl Symon is the senior independent director and, when nomination and remuneration committees.
The board also has a necessary, supports the chairman and the other non executive finance committee which oversees the financial risk management directors on Company related matters.
He is available to talk to strategy, policy and treasury transactional matters delegated to it, shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any and reviews and approves financial transactions on behalf of the unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be brought to board.
The board evaluates the membership of its individual board his attention.
There is a written job specification for this role and it committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that its principal is reviewed annually by the nomination committee.
committees have different non executive directors as their The non executive directors, including the senior independent chairman.
The board committees are governed by terms of director, met several times during the year with the chairman but reference which detail the matters delegated to the committee without the executive directors in attendance to discuss, on a less and for which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms formal basis, the Groups performance, governance, strategy and of reference for the main committees can be found on the succession planning.
Appropriate insurance cover has been obtained to protect the directors and senior management in the event of a claim being brought against them in their capacity as directors or officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
chairman and chief executive The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with each having clearly defined responsibilities.
Nonetheless, they retain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the boards decision making process and the successful delivery of the Groups strategy.
Sir Peter Ellwood, as chairman of the Company, is responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He works with the company secretary to ensure that appropriate matters are discussed during board meetings.
He safeguards the interest of the Companys shareholders and is also responsible for the overall supervision of the Groups policies governing the conduct of the business.
board balance as at 23 February 2011 Graham Chipchase, as chief executive, is responsible for the 6 non executive directors executive management of the Company and the running of the including the chairman Groups businesses.
2 executive directors The written job specifications for the roles of chairman and chief executive are reviewed annually by the nomination committee.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 56 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report corporate governance effectiveness The main terms of reference of the committee are: composition of the board to review the structure, size and composition of the Rexam has a board of directors of different nationalities with board including the skills, knowledge, experience international business backgrounds representing a range of and diversity : diverse skills and experience.
These skills are invaluable in to give full consideration to succession planning and challenging and developing the Groups strategy and enable the ensure that processes and planning are in place with board to effectively govern a global business.
The board works regard to both the board and senior executive as a team but independence of thought and approach as well as appointments: constructive debate is encouraged.
Influence is balanced within the to make recommendations to the board on the board by virtue of the chairman, together with the non executive nomination of appointments to the board, board senior independent director and a further four non executive committees and the appointment of the company directors, all of whom the board considers to be independent.
secretary: to assess the time needed to fulfil the roles of chairman, Throughout 2010 and up to the date of this annual report the senior independent director and non executive directors: Company has had a majority of independent non executive and directors on the board.
to assist the chairman with the annual board The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and performance evaluation process to assess the overall considers that these commitments do not conflict with their duties and individual performance and effectiveness of the as directors of the Company.
A biography of each member of board and each board committee.
the board and details of their other directorships are given on pages 52 and 53. appointments to the board The performance and effectiveness of the committee are reviewed The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by as part of the main performance evaluation of the board and all its the Companys articles of association, which may only be committees.
amended with shareholders approval in accordance with Any board appointments are conducted through a formal, rigorous relevant legislation.
Recommendations for appointments to the and transparent procedure between the nomination committee board are the responsibility of the nomination committee which and the board.
The committee identifies through the management acts in accordance with its terms of reference and the articles review process any internal people whose skills, experience and of association.
contribution to the Group would add value to the board.
The the nomination committee committee also works alongside recruitment consultants to evaluate All of the members of this committee are independent and consider prospective external candidates and review internal non executive directors.
Following an evaluation of candidates, the committee meets with prospective candidates who are then considered and, membership and meetings 2010 held attended if appropriate, recommendations are made to the board for approval.
6 Sir Peter Ellwood committee chairman 6 No new directors were appointed to the board in 2010 or Noreen Doyle 6 up to the date of this annual report.
John Langston 6 development, information and support Wolfgang Meusburger 6 The chairman and the company secretary ensure that, prior to each scheduled board meeting, the directors receive accurate, timely Jean-Pierre Rodier 6 and clear information which enables them to discharge their duties.
Carl Symon 5 In the months with no scheduled board meeting, the directors receive the prior month and cumulative financial and operating information relating to the Group and its businesses.
All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes visiting Group businesses.
This programme is tailored to each directors needs taking into account their individual qualifications and experience and, if required, an overview of the role and responsibilities of a director can be facilitated by an external consultant.
The company secretary gives guidance on board procedures and corporate governance.
57 The chairman regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training and development needs and members of the committees receive specific updates in matters that are relevant to their role.
Achievement of 2010 objectives identified through the The chairman arranges for the directors to visit at least one board performance evaluation in 2009 of the Groups business locations each year to ensure that their strategic planning knowledge, skills and familiarity with the Groups businesses are new strategic plan process was developed in 2010 updated and maintained.
During 2010, the board visited the UK focus on regular reporting to the board on the progress can manufacturing plant in Wakefield.
of strategic issues and actions risk management Members of the senior management team with responsibility for the comprehensive risk management process was Groups businesses and those with corporate and service centre enhanced by creation of an enterprise risk functional responsibilities make periodic presentations at board management function meetings about their businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, finance director provided regular updates to the board customers, markets and strategy.
on key risks and mitigation measures The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is customers responsible for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
an insight into the partnership between Rexam and its This includes taking minutes of the board meetings and the major customers and suppliers was achieved through recording of any concerns relating to the running of the Company regular focus at board meetings or proposed actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a the board was actively involved in the approval of the director in a board meeting.
The company secretary is also Groups major contracts secretary to the audit and risk, nomination and remuneration talent management and succession planning committees.
Under the direction of the chairman, he is responsible Group functions have been strengthened with the for the communication of relevant information between the board, appointments of a group director corporate affairs, its committees and the senior management team.
He also advises a group director enterprise risk, a group director the board, through the chairman, on all governance and regulatory plastic packaging and a director of group finance compliance matters.
the nomination committee has identified the areas to be considered for succession planning Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out his or her duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
board performance evaluation The chairman requested that the boards 2010 performance All directors, including the chairman, receive a formal performance evaluation be led by an external independent consultant.
The evaluation to which all other members of the board have an consultant selected has proven experience of providing opportunity to contribute.
The annual evaluations of the non executive independent board evaluation services and has no other directors, senior independent director and chief executive are led by connection with the Company.
The consultant met on at least one the chairman.
The chief executive leads the evaluation of the finance occasion with each of the directors.
The senior independent director leads the evaluation of the chairman.
The chairman and chief executive absent themselves The results of the 2010 board performance evaluation were when their own performance is being assessed or discussed.
The evaluation focused on the performance of each director and an evaluation of the The chairman met a number of times with the non executive effectiveness of the board and its main committees.
Particular directors during 2010 to discuss the evaluation of the board focus was given to those non executive directors who have been and individual directors performance, and succession plans.
on the Rexam board for more than six years to ensure they continue to add value to the board and that their independence is maintained.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 58 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report corporate governance The directors shared the view that the board and its committees to be proposed for re-election at AGM 2011 continue to operate effectively.
The board has agreed that during Sir Peter Ellwood chairman 2011 the following processes will be further developed and improved.
Graham Chipchase chief executive process 2011 objectives following 2010 evaluation David Robbie finance director Strategic planning To refine and implement the strategy Carl Symon senior independent director developed in 2010 Noreen Doyle non executive director Risk management To continue regular board debate of risk John Langston non executive director mitigation measures and changes in the Wolfgang Meusburger non executive director Groups key risk profile Jean-Pierre Rodier non executive director Financial and non To progress non financial monitoring financial monitoring and reporting through a Group balanced scorecard accountability Talent management and To put in place formal board succession succession planning plans To formally review the effectiveness of The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the the executive leadership team annually implementation and maintenance of effective systems of risk Board development To prepare a board development plan management and internal control, and presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position A full performance evaluation of the board and its committees and prospects.
The systems and controls in place include policies will continue to be conducted annually and an external evaluation and procedures which provide reasonable assurance that will take place, as recommended by the New Code, at least every transactions are recorded as necessary to facilitate the financial three years.
reporting process and the preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting election and re-election of directors Standards IFRSs.
Representatives of the businesses are required The Companys articles of association state, in accordance with the to certify that their reported information gives a true and fair view Code, that any director appointed to the board since the date of of the state of affairs of the business and its results for the year.
the last AGM should be proposed for election at the first AGM after To discharge these duties and responsibilities the board works their appointment.
Thereafter a director must be proposed for closely with the audit and risk committee.
re-election at the third AGM following the AGM at which the director was last elected or re-elected.
To promote good After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk governance and in accordance with the New Code, the board committee, the board confirms that it carried out a review of the has recommended that all directors should submit themselves for effectiveness of the system of internal control which operated re-election on an annual basis.
Following a rigorous evaluation within the Group during 2010 and up to the date of this annual of the performance of each director and on the recommendation report in accordance with the requirements of the Code and the of the nomination committee the board is proposing that all revised guidance issued in October 2005 Internal Control: directors stand for re-election at the AGM 2011.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
This review covered all controls, namely financial, Graham Chipchase is being recommended for re-election as the operational, compliance and risk management.
board believes his leadership and insight into the Group and its markets will help to grow Rexam and create shareholder value.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review David Robbie is being recommended for re-election as the board for 2010.
The board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement believes his strong financial and corporate finance experience and were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary his financial and strategic skills are important to the board and to action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The board will the maintenance of tight financial controls.
The chairman and all continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
non executive directors are being recommended for re-election as they remain independent, and continue to be effective and demonstrate their commitment to the board.
A biography of each member of the board can be found on pages 52 and 53.
59 the audit and risk committee Other published financial information is reviewed by the committee The committee members comprise independent non executive for statutory and regulatory compliance and is submitted to the directors.
John Langston is the chairman of the committee.
As a board with a recommendation for approval.
qualified chartered accountant and former finance director he is risk management and internal control well placed to provide the committee with the relevant financial The Group has well established systems of risk management and experience to enable it to carry out its responsibilities.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, membership and meetings 2010 held attended the systems aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no system can provide 4 absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, John Langston committee chairman 4 the Groups systems are designed to provide the board with Noreen Doyle 4 reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions Carl Symon 4 are properly authorised and recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected within a timely period.
The main terms of reference of the committee are: to oversee and review the fundamental financial In 2010 the Company appointed a group director and operational risks, policies and management: enterprise risk to the executive leadership team.
The to assist the board in meeting its responsibilities in appointment brings an increased focus and emphasis ensuring an effective system of internal control and on global risk management and provides leadership compliance and accurate external financial reporting: and coordination for the Groups business and to assist the board in managing the relationship with operational risk activities.
Other responsibilities include the Companys external auditors, to review and health and safety, environment, fire and property monitor their independence, and in particular the protection, security, insurance, business continuity provision of non audit services provided by them to and crisis management.
the Group: and to approve the appointment of the director internal audit and review and approve the annual programme of internal audit assignments.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting the risks faced by the Group.
This formal audit and risk process known as the ARC process is led by the group director enterprise risk together with the finance director, The committee meets at least four times a year.
At the request of the director internal audit and other senior management the committee chairman, the chairman of the board, the chief representatives.
Meetings are held with businesses and functional executive, the finance director, the group director enterprise managers who present their risk profiles, enabling discussion of the risk and the director internal audit are invited to attend risks identified, the management of those risks and the mitigation each meeting.
measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems of internal Should it be requested, the committee has access to independent control.
The process ensures that risks are not just the product expert advice at the Companys expense.
The performance and of a bottom up approach but are also examined from a top down effectiveness of the committee are reviewed as part of the main perspective and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
The results of the ARC process are reported to the audit and risk financial and business reporting committee and provide an opportunity for the committee to discuss The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the board and analyse the risks reported.
In addition to reviewing the risks, for reviewing in detail the annual report and half year results as presented by management, the committee also receives announcement, which provide a clear assessment of the presentations from the Groups businesses or functional managers performance and prospects of the Group through the business to assess at first hand the effectiveness of the process, and whether model, strategy and a review of strategic risks and financial and the risks identified are being managed successfully, and to non financial performance.
Also included in the annual report challenge management on the mitigation measures in place.
The is the external auditors report to the members providing an committee then reports their conclusions to the board for review.
independent view of the state of the Groups affairs.
The half Details of the key risks to which the Group is exposed are included year results announcement includes the external auditors review in the business review and can be found on pages 36 to 39. report to the Company.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 60 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report corporate governance The framework which the board has established to provide effective internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint ventures is supported by the key areas set out in the table below.
key areas of the internal control framework activity in 2010 Financial reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting were performing in line with budget and strategy.
financial results to the board.
An annual budget and strategic review are prepared for each business and The chief executive and the finance director met are consolidated for review by the board before regularly with sector management to ensure businesses being formally adopted.
During the year, monthly were performing and reporting according to the management accounts, including cash flow and capital Groups standards.
Following those meetings the chief expenditure reporting, are prepared with a executive and the finance director reported back to comparison against budget and prior year.
are revised in the light of this comparison and are also reviewed by the board.
Delegated authority There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and The Group authority levels and related financial limits, levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, which include information on those matters that are with specific matters reserved to the board.
Businesses specifically reserved for the boards consideration, are decentralised with operating autonomy and were reviewed and updated as appropriate to financial responsibility delegated to corporate and address, among other things, the changes in local management to the extent that they have approval management structure.
to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
Procedures and There are formal written Group financial procedures Group authority levels have been updated.
controls and controls in operation, including specific The process for approving significant contracts has procedures for treasury matters, capital investment been refreshed following a review by the Group and the approval of significant contracts.
and local management are required to complete bi-annual representation letters formally confirming The Code of Conduct has been updated and an online that their businesses comply with the Groups financial compliance training process developed to ensure reporting policies and other Group policies and employees familiarity and compliance with the Code procedures.
Internal audit The internal audit function monitors financial and other The annual internal audit plan was produced from risks faced throughout the Group and the control an assessment of the risks following the ARC process systems in operation to manage those risks.
Any reviews and was presented to the audit and risk significant internal audit findings are reported to committee for approval.
the audit and risk committee.
Meetings were held regularly with internal audit management and the finance director, together with business management, to review progress on implementing audit recommendations and to ensure any significant issues identified were addressed.
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit.
Operational risk Operational risk management, part of the enterprise In line with the Rexam Way values a system of awards management risk function, provides the leadership to develop and is being introduced to recognise businesses receiving monitor processes which identify, assess and manage high scores based on the audits.
risks associated with health and safety, environment, In addition to the lost time accident rate, the Rexam business continuity and crisis management, fire and incident rate was implemented to further strengthen loss prevention, security and asset protection.
Purpose the focus on health and safety through an increased built audit programmes allow for businesses to be attention to incidents requiring medical attention.
evaluated against Rexams and external best practice Further details can be found in the key risk section standards, and provide the basis for continuous of this annual report on page 36. improvement action plans.
In addition, many Rexam businesses are accredited to external internationally recognised standards.
The function also manages Rexams global insurance programme.
Periodic updates including any significant findings and issues are reported to the audit and risk committee.
61 internal audit of the non audit services can be found in note 5 to the consolidated The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits of the financial statements.
Other audit firms were engaged to provide businesses to ensure that the controls operating in the businesses expatriate and specialist tax advisory services as well as to advise conform with Group controls and procedures.
The director internal audit provides regular updates to the audit PwC are prohibited from providing services to the Company that and risk committee and reports on any significant audit findings.
would be considered to jeopardise their independence, such as He also has separate meetings with the chairman of the audit financial systems design and implementation, actuarial services, and risk committee without any other member of management internal audit outsourcing services and investment services.
The policy on non audit services will be monitored during 2011 to ensure it is in line with best practice.
In line with best practice, an external independent assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit function was carried directors situational conflicts of interest out on behalf of the audit and risk committee.
This assessment In line with the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with was based on a series of interviews with key stakeholders and the Companys articles of association, the board has a formal included a review of the internal audit functions working practices system in place for directors to review regularly their interests and and reports, and overall support for the Groups businesses.
report any conflicts of interest to the chairman and the company The outcome of the review was positive and the director internal secretary.
Any situational conflicts considered by the board and audit will continue to review the role and focus of the internal audit any authorisations given to a director who has a situational conflict function during 2011, to identify areas for further improvement and are recorded in the board minutes and in a register of directors to provide assurance to the committee and Group management of conflicts which is reviewed annually by the board.
No situational the robustness of internal audits processes.
conflicts were reported to the board during 2010 and up to the date of this annual report.
external auditors The committee has primary responsibility for and advises the board code of conduct on the appointment, reappointment and the remuneration of the A worldwide Code of Conduct, which applies to all the Companys Companys external auditors.
 LLP PwC employees, has been approved by the board and provides a clear have been the Companys external auditors since 2003 with the statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted lead audit partner changing by rotation in 2008.
During 2010, the by Rexams activities.
The Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and and has been refreshed during 2010.
It is communicated has recommended to the board that a resolution to reappoint PwC through an induction process for new employees, as part of the be proposed at the AGM 2011.
A review of PwCs effectiveness team briefings in the Groups businesses, and on the Groups will be undertaken in 2011 following completion of the 2010 year intranet and website.
The board is kept informed regarding the end audit.
The committee will continue to keep under review the maintenance of the Code of Conduct and any breaches of it.
independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
An online training system has been introduced to ensure all management are aware of their responsibilities and are in The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings.
compliance with the Code of Conduct.
The committee chairman also has separate meetings with the external auditors to discuss matters of interest.
In addition, with the expected introduction of the UK Bribery Act, all policies and procedures relating to bribery and corruption are The first meeting within the Group annual audit cycle is to consider being reviewed to ensure they are in line with best practice and the nature and scope of the audit and to consider any additional that there are adequate procedures to prevent bribery or special reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings are held corruption taking place.
prior to the approval of the half year results and the full year results to consider, as relevant, the audit conclusions, the results of any whistle blowing policy special reviews undertaken, the business risks facing the Group Rexam recognises that there will be times when an employee and the reports from the ARC process meetings.
The committee might not be comfortable raising concerns directly with local reports its findings on the audit process and on the wider aspects management and in such cases, communication with business of internal control to the board.
and Group management is encouraged.
Non audit services provided by PwC to the Group require Rexam operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported pre-approval and agreement of the fees to be paid for such by an external confidential telephone helpline, available to all services.
The scope and extent of such non audit work are employees for the raising of any concerns, including those of a monitored by and, above certain thresholds, require prior approval financial nature.
The Raise Your Concern telephone helpline has from the committee to ensure that the provision of such services been beneficial as an independent point of contact for employees does not impair PwCs independence or objectivity.
Non audit where, if requested, the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
fees in 2010 relate mainly to global advisory tax services and During 2010 there were 45 concerns 2009: 33 concerns logged assurance in IT projects, including a new treasury system.
The cost and investigated, raising matters, in the majority of cases, related to local business human resource issues and practices.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 62 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report corporate governance All concerns reported are investigated at the earliest opportunity shareholder relations by the director internal audit, in conjunction with the company secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the respective business.
The director internal audit provides an update on all calls dialogue with shareholders and constructive use received, and the actions taken to respond to and resolve them, of the AGM to Group management and the audit and risk committee on a The board believes that it is a priority to communicate with regular basis.
Any significant concerns are reported directly shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many to the chairman of the audit and risk committee as well as to shareholders as possible.
There are programmes for the chief Group management.
executive, finance director and the head of investor relations to meet with the Companys major investors in the UK, US and The committee reviews the whistle blowing policy and the Raise Europe.
Presentations are made on the operating and financial Your Concern process annually.
The Raise Your Concern policy performance of the Group, including corporate governance has been highlighted in team meetings during 2010 to ensure related matters, and the Groups longer term strategy.
the policy is understood and available to all employees.
The presentations made to representatives of the investment going concern community following the announcement of the half and full year The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely results are available on the Companys website, as is a live to affect its future development, performance and position are webcast of the related results presentation.
Roadshows are held set out in the business review on pages 12 to 39.
The financial in the UK, US and Europe following the announcement of the half position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and and full year results.
Where it is not possible to meet face to face, borrowing facilities are also detailed in the business review meetings are held by video or telephone conference.
In addition, notes 23, 24 and 25 to the The Company also hosts plant visits and annual seminars for consolidated financial statements include the Groups objectives institutional shareholders and representatives of the investment and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management community.
The seminars are webcast live and replays, together objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging with presentation slides, are available online.
activities, and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources, strengthened by refinancing 1bn of its bank facilities during 2010, together with established contracts with a number of customers and suppliers During 2010 our chairman, Sir Peter Ellwood, met with across different geographic areas and markets.
As a consequence, some of our top institutional shareholders to discuss the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its Rexams governance and strategy.
Conversations centred business despite the economic environment which increases risks mainly on the Groups strategy under Graham and uncertainties.
Chipchases leadership, the boards position on succession The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied planning, the remuneration policy and the internal control that the Company and the Group have adequate resources and risk management policies within Rexam.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated and Company financial statements.
Institutional shareholders can request an opportunity to meet with any of the executive and non executive directors.
The non remuneration executive directors are given regular updates as to the views of institutional shareholders.
After the investor meetings held following the announcement of the half and full year results, remuneration policy for directors a summary report on investor responses is prepared for the board, The remuneration committee is responsible for making normally by the Companys corporate brokers.
The non executive recommendations to the board on the Groups remuneration directors have an opportunity to meet with shareholders at the policy and setting the remuneration levels and specific packages AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the chief appropriate for the chairman and the executive directors taking executive and finance director.
The board fully supports the into account the Groups annual salary negotiations.
The principle of the Code which seeks to encourage more active remuneration report is on pages 64 to 74 of this annual report.
interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
63 Communication with private shareholders is largely through the AGM, which is held at a central London location.
The notice of the AGM is posted to shareholders with, if requested, the annual report and any related papers at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM to ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in which to consider the items of business to be voted upon.
The majority of shareholders have elected to access the annual report and other shareholder documents online via the Rexam website rather than receiving a copy by post.
Rexams ADR investors receive details of the AGM and are entitled to instruct the depositary, The Bank of New York Mellon, to vote on the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
A presentation is made at the AGM to update shareholders on the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the board and the chairman of each board committee during the AGM and meet all the directors informally at the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the for, against and vote withheld proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the AGM are counted and announced at the end of the AGM after the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
An announcement confirming whether each resolution was passed at the AGM is made through the London Stock Exchange and can be viewed on the Rexam website, together with a summary of the number of votes cast in respect of each resolution.
Shareholders can ask questions of the Company at any time through the Rexam website or by contacting the company secretarys department at the Companys headquarters.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
