corporate governance Statement of compliance Neither the Chairman nor the other two executive directors The 2008 Combined Code of Corporate Governance hold any other non-executive directorships or commitments Combined Code sets out the principles and provisions disclosable under the Combined Code.
relating to good governance of UK listed companies.
In this Biographical details of the directors at the date of this section we set out how we have applied the principles and report appear on pages 16 and 17. complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during 2010 and explain the reason for one area of non-compliance.
Directors remuneration The principles and details of directors remuneration and the Board contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration At the date of this report, the Board comprises eight directors Report on pages 32 to 44. including the Chairman Scott Forbes, three executive directors Ed Williams, Managing Director, Nick McKittrick, Board and committee membership and attendance Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director and Peter In accordance with the Combined Code, the Articles of Brooks-Johnson, Managing Director, Rightmove.
co. uk and Association require all directors to seek re-election every four non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew, who is the three years.
In addition all directors are subject to election by Senior Independent Director, Ashley Martin, Judy Vezmar, shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Following the changes introduced by the Combined Code in Colin Kemp has worked for HBOS companies for over 30 June 2010, all directors will seek re-election at the 2011 years and held the position as Managing Director of Halifax Annual General Meeting.
Peter Brooks-Johnson, who having Estate Agencies Limited an agency customer of the Group been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will from January 2005 to December 2007.
Although the Lloyds retire from the position as executive director and offer himself Banking Group subsequently sold the business in October for election.
2009, in strict application of the Combined Code, Colin Kemp The membership of the Committees of the Board and is not considered to be independent.
However, the Board attendance at meetings for the year under review are set out considers that Colin Kemp is independent in character and in in the table below: Remuneration Audit Nomination particular continues to challenge rigorously the executive Board Committee Committee Committee directors and the Board as a whole.
Whilst the composition of the Board for the year under review was not in strict Total meetings 8 6 4 2 compliance with supporting principle B.
1.2 of the Combined 1 Scott Forbes 8 6 N A 2 Code in that at least half of the directors excluding the Jonathan Agnew 8 6 4 2 Chairman are not considered independent non-executive Colin Kemp 8 N A N A N A directors, the directors believe that the Board currently operates effectively and that all the non-executive directors are fully Ashley Martin 8 6 4 N A independent of management and that Jonathan Agnew, Ashley Nick McKittrick 8 N A N A N A Martin and Judy Vezmar are free from any business or other 2 Stephen Shipperley 5 N A N A N A relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of Judy Vezmar 5 5 4 2 their independent judgment and advice to the Board.
Ed Williams, Managing Director, is also a non-executive Ed Williams 8 N A N A N A director of Trader Media Group.
His remuneration for that 1 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the position is retained by him and is set out in the Remuneration Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
2 Stephen Shipperley resigned on 31 December 2010.
25 rightmove plc annual report 2010 corporate governance continued In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Chairman and Managing Director meetings with the non-executive directors without the There are clear written guidelines to support the division of executive directors being present when required.
Jonathan responsibilities at the head of the Company with the roles Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting of the Chairman and Managing Director separately held.
of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was The Chairman is responsible for the effective conduct of the also reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
Board, for communication with shareholders and for ensuring that each director uses their skills and experience to the operation of the Board benefit of the Boards decision making.
With the assistance The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall of the Company Secretary, the Chairman monitors the direction and control of the Group.
Its key task is to approve information provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of projects pertinent, timely and clear.
and proposals and monitoring the operating performance of The Managing Director has day-to-day executive the Group in pursuit of its objectives in the interest of responsibility for the running of the Group, leading the maximising long-term shareholder value.
The Board has executive and operational teams in developing strategies adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring specific and delivering results against defined targets to enable the approval.
These include, amongst other things, the approval Group to meet its objectives.
of the annual business plan, capital structure, dividend policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of Board training officers of the Company, approval of the Half Year and Full The breadth of management, financial and listed company Year results, shareholder communication and responsibility experience of the non-executive directors is described in the for corporate governance and review of the Groups risks biographical details on pages 16 and 17, and demonstrates a and system of internal controls.
range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills The Board receives meeting papers one week prior to and experience given the size of the Company.
There are the meetings to allow sufficient time for detailed review and procedures in place for individual Board members to receive consideration of the documents beforehand.
If any director induction and training as appropriate and to seek the advice has a concern about any aspect of the business conducted and services of independent professional advisers, at the at any Board meeting, the Company Secretary shall discuss Companys expense, where specific expertise or training is this with the director concerned and record their concern or required in the course of their duties.
comments in the Board minutes.
The Board also receives The directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity monthly management and financial reports on the operational provision between the Company and its directors and officers and financial performance of the business setting out actual as provided by the Articles of Association of the Company, and forecast financial performance against approved budgets which was in force at the date of this report.
The Group has in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board also also arranged directors and officers insurance cover in receives copies of broker reports and press releases relating to respect of legal action against the directors.
At least once a year the Managing Director and the The Group has set out written policies in compliance with senior management team present a strategic review and an a code of securities dealings in relation to the shares and annual plan to the Board for review and approval.
equivalent to the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
The Board normally schedules eight meetings each year The code applies to all directors, other persons discharging although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the managerial responsibility and other relevant employees.
request of any director or if required.
In addition to formal Board meetings, there is regular informal dialogue between all directors.
26 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Board evaluation Shareholders are also kept up to date with the Groups The Board conducted a Board evaluation exercise in activities through the Annual and Half Year Reports and the quarter four of 2010 which was led by the Chairman, investor relations section of its website, which provides details assisted by the Company Secretary.
All directors completed of all the directors, latest news, including financial results, questionnaires inviting feedback on the performance and investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
The results were discussed at the The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of Board meeting in December 2010.
The Board concluded that those with an interest in the Company through reports from it was operating effectively and agreed a number of actions the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer and and training requirements for the forthcoming year.
In addition Finance Director as well as reports from the Companys joint each director provided feedback on the performance of each brokers, UBS and Numis.
Directors receive notification of any of their Board colleagues which was collated and changes in the status of substantial shareholders and at each communicated at one-to-one meetings conducted by the Board meeting an update is given by the executive directors Chairman.
At a meeting chaired by Jonathan Agnew, Senior on the movements in major shareholdings and on the views Independent Director, the Board provided input into and and opinions of those with an interest in the Company.
reviewed the performance of the Chairman.
The Board has agreed to adopt best practice and to Conflicts of interest organise an externally facilitated Board evaluation at least In cases of doubt, the Chairman of the Board is responsible once every three years and will take some time to review the for determining whether a conflict of interest exists.
external market place over the next year to determine an appropriate facilitator and process alternatives with the aim Annual General Meeting of introducing an external evaluation by 2012.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Companys Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2011 where all directors will Relations with shareholders be available to answer questions and will also be available for The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance discussions with shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
and activities of the Company and the Chairman ensures that The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and related effective communication with shareholders takes place.
papers to be available on the Companys corporate website at Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the www.
rsp or posted to shareholders Company has conducted regular dialogue with shareholders where requested so as to allow at least 20 working days for through ongoing meetings with institutional investors and consideration before the Annual General Meeting.
research firms to discuss strategy, operating performance and The Company also complies with the Combined Code financial performance.
Contact in the UK is principally with the with the separation of all resolutions put to the vote of Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer and Finance shareholders.
The Company proactively encourages Director.
The Chairman also participates in the USA biannual shareholders to vote at general meetings by providing investor road shows.
In 2010, Jonathan Agnew, the Senior electronic voting for shareholders who hold their shares Independent Director, consulted major shareholders on the through the Crest system and provides personalised proxy remuneration policy for the executive directors.
He is also cards to ensure that all votes are clearly identifiable.
The available to shareholders if they wish to supplement Company presently takes votes at general meetings on a show communication or if contact through the normal channels of hands on the grounds of practicality due to the limited is inappropriate.
number of shareholders in attendance.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder meeting where legally required.
All proxy 27 rightmove plc annual report 2010 corporate governance continued votes are counted and the level of proxy votes including and to set the remuneration for the executive directors and abstentions lodged for each resolution are reported after senior management from 2011.
A detailed report on the each resolution and published on the Companys website.
Companys remuneration policy and the work of the Remuneration Committee is available in the Remuneration Board committees Report on pages 32 to 44.
The Board has established three principal committees, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the nomination committee Nomination Committee, each of which operates within written The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes who is terms of reference approved by the Board.
No person other also Chairman of the Board, Jonathan Agnew and Judy than a Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings Vezmar as independent non-executive directors.
The quorum of these Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of for meetings of the Nomination Committee is two members.
The Chairman of the Company may not chair the Nomination Committee in connection with any discussion about the Remuneration committee appointment of his successor to the chairmanship of the The Remuneration Committee consists of the three Company.
In these circumstances, the Senior Independent independent non-executive directors, Jonathan Agnew who Director will take the chair.
Appointments are for a period of is Chairman, Judy Vezmar and Ashley Martin.
In addition, the up to three years, extendable by no more than two additional Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the three year periods, so long as members continue to be Chairman of the Board attend the Remuneration Committee independent.
The quorum for meetings of the Remuneration The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may Committee is two members.
The Remuneration Committee be necessary and normally meets at least twice a year.
will meet at such times as may be necessary but will normally The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and meet at least twice a year.
make recommendations to the Board about the composition The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure of the Board, including proposed appointees, and whether to that the Companys executive directors and senior executives fill any vacancies that arise or to change the number of Board are properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual members.
contributions to the Companys overall performance having The Nomination Committees terms of reference due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the are available on the Companys website, financial and commercial health of the Group.
rsp or by request from The Remuneration Committees terms of reference the Company Secretary.
are available on the Companys website, During the year the Nomination Committee reviewed the www.
rsp or by request from organisation structure, approved the plans for the succession the Company Secretary.
of the executive directors and the senior management team, The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the agreed the process for the Boards annual evaluation together Committee.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with the changes to the Combined Code and conducted an reports to the Board on the Remuneration Committees behalf annual review of its terms of reference.
During 2010 the Committee appointed Aon Hewitt Limited Audit committee trading as Hewitt New Bridge Street, remuneration The Audit Committee consists of the three independent consultants, to assist with a review of the remuneration policy non-executive directors, Ashley Martin who is Chairman, 28 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Judy Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew.
Ashley Martin was for an internal audit function.
Given the simplicity of the previously the Finance Director of Rok plc and Group Finance organisational structure, the open and accountable culture Director of the media services group Tempus Group plc and, with clear authority limits, the straightforward financial model having relevant financial skills and experience, was appointed and systems and the fact that the management team and to the role of Audit Committee Chairman on his appointment Board conduct regular financial reviews, the Committee to the Board in June 2009. recommended to the Board that an internal audit function The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two was not currently appropriate for the business.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period is kept under regular review.
of up to three years, extendable by no more than two The Committee also discussed its responsibilities to additional three year periods, so long as members continue safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well as to be independent.
the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical in The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year many cases for the auditor to be assigned to other non-audit and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior project work due to their knowledge and expertise of the to the announcement of the Half Year and Full Year results business.
This would usually relate to corporate transaction of the Group, when the external auditor is in attendance.
The Committee agreed a policy The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
that management be given authority to incur non-audit fees The Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director and up to 50% of the annual agreed audit and tax fee in any Financial Controller are normally invited to attend the financial year without the prior approval of the Audit meetings.
Colin Kemp, non-executive director, is also Committee.
In 2010 the non-audit fees were 7,000 in relation invited to attend the meetings.
to other advisory services and are fully disclosed in Note 6 of The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the the financial statements.
Board on the Audit Committees behalf after each meeting.
The Committee reviewed the Annual and Half Year The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its Reports.
The external auditor also presented the results of duties concerning the announcement of results, the Annual their review of the 2009 Full Year and 2010 Half Year results and Half Year Reports and the maintenance of internal as well as their audit plan to the Audit Committee.
It reviews the scope and planning of the audit and to receiving reports from the external auditor, members met the auditors findings and considers the Groups accounting with the external auditor without the presence of the policies and the compliance with those policies and applicable executive directors.
The Committee also reviewed the whistleblowing policy The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any areas which provides the procedure for staff to report any concerns of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to obtain that they may have independent of management about outside legal or other independent professional advice in suspected misconduct without fear of retaliation and connection therewith.
The Audit Committees principal duties conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
and terms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
rsp or by request internal controls from the Company Secretary.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system During 2010 the Committee has, amongst other matters, of internal controls and has established a framework of approved the appointment of the external auditor, fixed their financial and other controls, which is periodically reviewed in remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of the external accordance with the Turnbull guidance for its effectiveness.
The Committee has also considered the need 29 rightmove plc annual report 2010 corporate governance continued The Board has taken, and will continue to take, appropriate a comprehensive disaster recovery plan based upon measures to ensure that the chances of financial irregularities co-hosting of the Rightmove.
co. uk website across three occurring are reduced as far as reasonably possible by separate London locations, which is regularly tested continually seeking to improve the quality of information at and reviewed: all levels in the Group, fostering an open environment and a treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts ensuring that the financial analysis is rigorously applied.
Any and cash on deposit and is responsible for monitoring system of internal control is designed to manage rather than compliance with banking agreements, where appropriate: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance a whistleblowing policy of which all employees are made against material misstatement or loss.
aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line The Groups management has established the procedures management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside the necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for line management structure.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the Through the procedures outlined above, the Board has whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and up considered all significant aspects of internal control for the to the date of the approval of the financial statements and year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
Going concern The key elements of the system of internal control are: The Board is required under the Combined Code to consider major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks whether or not it is appropriate to adopt the going concern are formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed basis in preparing the Group and the parent Company with the executive directors, after which they are considered financial statements.
by the Board: As part of its normal business practice the Group prepares a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and annual and longer term financial plans.
In addition, a going monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly concern paper was prepared and presented to the Audit management reporting and monitoring of performance Committee in February 2011 prior to it recommending the against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for approval of the financial statements and notes to the accounts all significant variances: for the year ended 31 December 2010 to the Board.
an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of After reviewing this, the Board has a reasonable responsibility and delegation of authority: expectation that the Group has adequate resources and clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and banking facilities to continue in operational existence for investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals the going concern basis in preparing the financial requiring Board approval: statements.
Further information is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
30 rightmove plc annual report 2010 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Annual Report and financial statements responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement and the Group and parent Company financial statements in that comply with that law and those regulations.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Legislation in the UK governing the Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial preparation and dissemination of financial statements may statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
