S u s t a i n a b l e d e v e l o p m e n e t c n a n Corporate governance Rio Tintos board is ultimately responsible for the success of the Group and upholds high standards of corporate governance that will enable us to achieve our vision of global sector The way we work leadership.
The board of directors firmly believes that high standards of A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision corporate governance form an essential underpinning to the or consideration by the board as a whole has been agreed by the achievement of Rio Tintos vision to become the sector leading directors.
This schedule covers areas such as the Groups strategy, global mining and metals company and to maximise major investments and acquisitions.
It is available on the shareholderreturns.
corporate governance section of the website.
Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to In line with its principal role, the board is ultimately accountable comply with the regulatory obligations associated with its three to Rio Tintos shareholders for the performance of the business.
principal stock exchange listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
Responsibility for day to day management of the business is Statements of compliance with each of the corporate governance delegated to the chief executive who, in turn, has established codes applied by these jurisdictions are set out on page 127. an executive team, the Executive committee, with authorities delegated to individual executives, all within an agreed financial Board control framework.
As part of the annual financial planning Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of process, the board sets annual performance targets, which directors.
The directors are responsible for the success of the Group include personal and business performance measures, under the and, through the independent oversight of management, are Groups short term incentive plan detailed on page 133 of the accountable to shareholders for the performance of the business.
These performance targets are determined by the Remuneration committee on behalf of the board for the Responsibilities chief executive based upon his proposals and objectives for the The principal role of the board is to set the Groups vision and to year.
The chief executive establishes targets for the other regularly review its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board members of his Executive committee which are then cascaded also has responsibility for the establishment and maintenance of throughout management teams.
Further details of the effective standards of corporate governance across the Group and performance evaluation of the executive directors and other oversees managements control and accountability framework.
senior executives is discussed in the Remuneration report.
Board performance r Reviewing each of the product group strategies.
Key activities during 2010 r Considering and eventually withdrawing from plans to create the r Monitoring economic developments in order to meet the challenges Western Australian iron ore production joint venture with BHP Billiton.
of the financial volatility of OECD countries and the opportunities presented by the growing levels of urbanisation and industrialisation r Driving completion of the divestment programme.
in populous parts of the world.
Board objectives r Promoting the growth of the business, evidenced in particular by: r Prioritise value adding growth.
the signature of a joint venture agreement with Chalco for the r Support the vision of global sector leadership.
development and operation of the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea: the approval of further funding for expansion of Pilbara iron r Regular review and oversight of Group strategy.
ore capacity to 283 million tonnes per annum: and other corporate r Review financial and non-financial performance metrics.
activity relating to Oyu Tolgoi and Riversdale.
r Oversee succession planning for the board and senior executives.
r Positioning Rio Tinto to meet fiscal and monetary challenges, r Strive for excellence in the Groups governance processes and policies, including engagement with the Australian Government in relation including risk governance.
to its proposed Resources Super Profits Tax and its subsequent r Review and implement actions from board and board committee replacement with a Minerals Resource Rent Tax.
r Overseeing the management of the risks facing Rio Tinto, seeking r Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
to influence government and other external stakeholders within r Maintain a strong balance sheet.
the mining and natural resource sector relating to resource nationalism and socio-economic development.
114 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report r e v o G V a l u e s Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Board balance and independence Conflict of interests UK company law allows the board to authorise a situation in which Chairman and chief executive there is, or may be, a conflict between the interests of Rio Tinto and The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and the direct or indirect interests of a director or between the directors the division of their respective responsibilities has been reviewed duties to Rio Tinto and to another person.
Further to the approval and approved by the board.
obtained from shareholders in 2008, Rio Tinto plcs articles of association give directors the power to authorise such conflicts.
Board balance The board has adopted procedures for ensuring that its powers Rio Tinto has a diverse board comprising directors drawn from a to authorise conflicts operate effectively and for this purpose, a wide range of professional backgrounds and geographic areas.
The register of conflicts and any authorisation granted by the board board supports the principle of diversity and its implementation is maintained by the company secretary and reviewed bi-annually throughout Rio Tinto and believes that a board and employee by the board.
community reflective of the Groups global activities is critical to the success of the organisation.
See pages 116 to 117 for more Executive directors other directorships information on diversity.
Executive directors may on occasion be invited to become non As of the date of this report, the board consists of 14 directors: executive directors of other companies.
The board has adopted the chairman, three executive directors, and ten independent non a procedure under which approval may be given to accept such executive directors.
invitations recognising the benefit to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from such exposure.
For further information see The names, skills and experience of each director together with page 139. their terms in office are shown in the biographical details on pages 102 to 105.
Details of changes to the board during 2010 and in the year to date are set out in the Directors report on page 110.
Sir Rod Eddington and Yves Fortier and have announced their intention to retire from the boards upon the conclusion of the 2011 annual general meetings.
The board will then comprise 12 directors of which eight will be independent non executive directors.
How the board members spent their time in 2010 Strategy 43% Director independence Site visits & familiarisation 25% The tests of independence of a non executive director in the Operational & financial jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings are not wholly performance 22% consistent.
The board has therefore adopted a formal policy for Governance 8% the determination of the independence of its non executive Board evaluation 2% directors.
This policy, which includes materiality thresholds for the measurement of independence to be approved by the board, is available on the Groups website.
Excludes board committee responsibilities Among its key criteria are independence from management and the and delegated authorities by the board absence of any business relationship which could materially interfere with the directors independence of judgment and Industry background experience ability to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards Mining engineering 33% deliberations, or which could interfere with the directors ability Consumer goods services 21% to act in the best interests of the Group.
Where contracts in the Business finance 14% ordinary course of business exist between Rio Tinto and a company General industry 14% in which a director has declared an interest, these are reviewed for Government affairs 14% materiality to both the Group, and the other party to the contract.
Law 4% Material is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts for more than two per cent of either parties consolidated gross revenue per annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
Applying these criteria, the board is satisfied that all of its non Length of tenure Non executive directors only executive directors are independent in accordance with this policy.
0 - 3 years 46% Jan du Plessis, upon his original appointment to the board as a 4 - 6 years 36% non executive director in September 2008, was deemed to be 7 - 9 years 18% independent in accordance with the criteria set by the boards policy.
At the time of his appointment as non executive chairman from 20 April 2009, the board determined that he continued to be independent under the policy.
In the boards view, he continues to satisfy the tests for independence under the Australian Securities Exchange Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations ASX Principles and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards NYSE Standards.
com 115 Corporate governance continued to benefit in this way by a visit to the Groups coal operations Election and re-election in Australia.
The board also takes the opportunity to combine The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during attendance at the annual general meeting in Australia with the year.
Directors appointed in this way will, upon the recommendation site visits.
of the board, offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first annual general meetings after theirappointment.
Board performance evaluation In subsequent years the re-election of directors is subject to each Under the leadership and guidance of the chairman and with the director meeting the independence criteria detailed above, the support of the company secretary, the directors continue to review absence of any conflicts of interests, ongoing commitment to the design and effectiveness of the board evaluation processes.
Group activities, and satisfactory performance.
These processes have been further refined in 2010 resulting in an annual exercise to evaluate not only the boards effectiveness, but In accordance with a new provision of the UK Corporate Governance also that of the board committees and individual directors.
Code formerly the Combined Code, Rio Tinto expects to submit all directors for re-election annually with effect from its annual general Each non executive directors performance is appraised personally meetings in 2011. by the chairman each year.
For 2010, in light of the publication of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires the evaluation Non executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six of the board to be externally facilitated at least every three years, a years and, except in special circumstances, would not normally range of alternatives for conducting the evaluation of the board and serve more than nine years.
The board concluded that an evaluation Governance process led by Jan du Plessis, in his capacity as chairman of the board, managed by the company secretary, but overseen by an The board meets regularly in order to effectively conduct its independent third party, was appropriate for 2010, since it was business.
In 2010, there were eight scheduled board meetings considered that this approach would promote further transparency and three board meetings convened and held at short notice.
and objectivity and facilitate a challenging and rigorous selfThe number of meetings held in 2010 is a reflection of the assessment process summarisedopposite.
considerable corporate activity considered by the board during the year, particularly in relation to the proposed iron ore production For the board committees, a similar process was followed with the joint venture with BHP Billiton in Western Australia, divestments, assistance of the external facilitator, agreed with the committee capital expenditure commitments and acquisition opportunities.
chairman and completed by each committee member and Details of the directors attendance at all of the board and regularattendees.
committee meetings held in 2010 are set out on page 118.
The senior independent non executive director leads a discussion The board has regular discussions with the executives during the involving all of the non executive directors without the chairman year on the Groups strategy.
These discussions will typically in attendance to assess the chairmans performance, taking into include strategy presentations that are given by product group consideration the views of the executive.
Feedback is provided directly chief executives, other members of the Executive committee or to the chairman by the senior independent non executive director.
The board also holds an annual two day The chief executive undertakes a performance evaluation of the strategy-setting meeting with the Executive committee which other executive directors.
Taking into consideration the views includes broader, detailed review sessions on the Groups strategic of the chairman and non executive directors, feedback is often direction.
The outputs from this event help underpin the boards provided directly to the executive directors by the chief executive.
annual financial planning exercise and provide strategic direction and focus to the executive team through effective allocation of the Based upon the results of these evaluations summarised opposite, Groups resources.
it was concluded that the board and its committees are operating effectively and that the individual directors performance continues Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate management and to be effective and demonstrates the level of commitment expected other information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
have direct access to the advice and services of the company secretaries.
In the event that they consider it to be required in the Diversity delivery of their fiduciary duties, the directors are also able to obtain independent professional advice at the Groups expense Rio Tintos commitment to diversity and inclusion through the company secretaries.
We believe that diversity improves business outcomes.
We are a global company, and wherever we operate, and across every part In addition to these formal processes, the directors are in regular of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which informal communication with members of the Executive difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men committee and other senior executives.
This helps to foster an and women from diverse backgrounds and giving each person open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience between the opportunity to contribute their skills, experience and management and the non executive directors.
perspectives, we believe that we are best able to develop To continue building on the formal induction programmes, innovative solutions to challenges and deliver sustainable which all new non executive directors undertake, they are value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
routinely provided with training and development opportunities.
In 2010, these opportunities included a briefing on reserves and What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto mineral resource reporting.
The directors are also encouraged t Embracing workforce diversity irrespective of age, gender, race, to participate in site visits to the Groups operations around the national and ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, physical world and to meet local employees.
In 2010, directors were able ability, language.
116 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Board and board committee evaluations Based upon the results of these evaluations, it was concluded that the board and its committees are operating effectively Evaluations completed by Assessment Examples of agreed actions members of the board, board committees, and the Executive committee For the board: Key areas of focus for the board: For the board: r the evaluation results informed r board structure and dynamics r a desire for continued improvement of the process discussions between the chairman bywhich management proposals are made to, and r board composition and capability and each individual director reviewed by, the board and its committees r strategy, planning and risk r the chairman also took the r seeking to further enhance the non executive r succession planning opportunity to provide feedback on directors induction process and their continued r culture and relationships each non executive directors training and development r board and committee governance individual performance and r building on the improvements made in risk r board process and support contribution together with that governance in 2010 and placing increased emphasis r directors training and development of the chief executive.
The chief on the oversight of reputational risk executive undertook this process r enhancing the boards mix of experience to assist its Key areas of focus for board for the other executive directors.
understanding of investor sentiment committees: r the board used one of its scheduled r roles and responsibilities For board committees: meetings to discuss the output from r performance and effectiveness its performance evaluation and agreed r reviewing the Audit committees risk governance a number of actions responsibilities in light of the implementation r capabilities of members of a refreshed risk management process in 2010 r interaction with management For board committees: r a continued focus for the Remuneration r committee governance and processes r the evaluation results were collated committee on ensuring alignment of reward r members training and development and presented for discussion and with strategic objectives debate and to agree actions r reviewing the range of non financial, corporate social  indicators provided to the Committee on social and environmental accountability and the board and re-examining the quality and substance of stakeholder engagement t Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse t Governance models, such as the recently established Group thinking, skills, experience and working styles of our Diversity Council employees.
t Policies, practices and targets t Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for t Leadership and cultural competence work arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at different life and career stages.
t Stakeholder relationships t Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and t Education and communication sustainable relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, governments, customers and suppliers.
What our current focus is Priorities for 2011 include five year programmes to: How we are building an inclusive environment at Rio Tinto t Improve the representation of women in senior management We use five levers to drive action and build awareness about roles and the pipeline of female talent: and diversity and inclusion.
Long and short term initiatives are prioritised based on need and impact.
t Improve the number of individuals from under-represented nationalities in professional and leadership roles, especially people from emerging regions in which Rio Tinto is developing business.
com 117 Corporate governance continued Board committees The board has established committees which are responsible for audit, remuneration, executive and non executive succession, social and environmental matters and assisting the board to deliver its responsibilities.
Each committee plays a vital role inhelping the board ensure that high standards of corporate governance are maintained throughout the Group.
The committees are governed by terms of reference which are reviewed annually and can be viewed in the corporate governance section of the website.
Governance structure Board of directors Board of directors Board Audit Nominations Committee on Remuneration Chairmans committees committee committee social and committee committee environmental accountability Chief executive Chief financial officer Management Disclosure and Investment Executive procedures committee committee committees committee Continuous Closure Ore reserves Risk Strategy and disclosure committee steering management finance a committee committee committee committee a The Continuous disclosure committee is an independent management committee.
Attendance at board and committee meetings during 2010 Committee on social Board Board Audit Nominations and environmental Remuneration Chairmans b b b b b b b scheduled short notice committee committee accountability committee committee Tom Albanese 8 8 3 3 17 18 a Sir David Clementi 2 3 1 1 4 4 1 1 1 1 Robert Brown 6 6 3 3 2 2 4 4 Vivienne Cox 8 8 2 3 7 7 3 3 Jan du Plessis 8 8 3 3 3 3 18 18 Sir Rod Eddington 8 8 2 3 3 3 6 6 Guy Elliott 8 8 3 3 16 18 Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 3 3 7 7 3 3 3 3 Yves Fortier 8 8 2 3 3 3 5 6 Ann Godbehere 8 8 2 3 6 6 2 2 Richard Goodmanson 8 8 3 3 3 3 6 6 3 3 Andrew Gould 8 8 2 3 3 3 3 3 Lord Kerr 8 8 3 3 7 7 3 3 6 6 a David Mayhew 2 3 1 1 Paul Tellier 8 8 3 3 7 7 3 3 3 3 Sam Walsh 8 8 3 3 a Retired from the board on 26 May 2010. b Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended 118 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Audit committee report a b Members 1.
Paul Tellier a Sir David Clementi was chair of the Audit committee until his retirement on 26 May 2010. b Ann Godbehere became a member upon her appointment on 9 February 2010, and became chair upon Sir David Clementis retirement.
requirement that at least one committee member should have Key responsibilities recent and relevant financial experience.
Following the retirement The primary function of the Audit committee, as set out in its of Sir David Clementi as its chairman with effect from the terms of reference which are summarised below, is to assist the conclusion of the 2010 annual general meetings, Ann Godbehere, board in fulfilling its responsibilities by monitoring decisions and chairman of the Committee since 25 May 2010, and Michael processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting Fitzpatrick are considered by the board to have recent and and sound systems of internal control and risk management.
The relevant financial experience and are therefore the Committees scope of the Committees responsibilities includes: financial financial experts.
All other members of the Committee are, in the reporting and internal controls over financial reporting: internal opinion of the Audit committee, deemed to be financially literate controls: corporate assurance: external auditors: risk management: by virtue of their business experience.
The Audit committee applies policies for the pre-approval of In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee has full permitted services provided by the Groups principal auditors.
All of authority to investigate all matters that fall within its terms of the engagements for services provided by them were either within reference.
Accordingly, the Committee may: the pre-approval policies or approved by the Audit committee.
The t obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its directors are satisfied that the provision of non audit services by duties at the cost of the Group: and  in accordance with this procedure is compatable with the general standard of independence for t have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may auditors imposed by relevant regulations, including the Australian reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
Corporations Act 2001, and US legislation.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of The Committee considered reports from the Groups Auditors, accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the , and Rio Tinto Corporate Assurance on the preparation of public financial information, review with activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment management of procedures relating to financial and capital in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control expenditure controls, including internal audit plans and reports, system.
This included an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Groups review with external auditors of the scope and results of their audit, internal controls over financial reporting and the Groups disclosure review and approval of the auditors fees, the nomination of controls and procedures in accordance with sections 404 and 302 of the auditors for appointment by shareholders, and the review of and Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 respectively.
A review of the scope and the recommendation to the board for approval of Rio Tintos risk outputs from the annual Internal Control Questionnaire, a key element management policies and processes.
Its responsibilities also include of Rio Tintos internal control framework, was also evaluated.
the oversight of the whistleblowing programme.
Key achievements Governance processes During 2010 the Committee undertook the following activities: To ensure the Committee discharges its responsibilities, it meets t reviewed and updated the terms of reference to reflect: not less than four times per year and arranges occasional training sessions which may cover new legislation and other information i. the Committees role with respect to resource and reserves relevant to the Committees role.
The Audit committee met seven evaluation and reporting: times in 2010.
The Groups chairman, chief executive, chief ii.
the Committees amended responsibility with respect to financial officer, other senior financial management, external risk.
Following the establishment of a Risk management and internal auditors regularly attend its meetings.
committee and the enhancement of the boards oversight The members of the Committee are independent and free of role for risk management, the Committee is now responsible any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying for conducting an annual review of the maturity and out their responsibilities.
The members meet the independence effectiveness of management processes relating to risk: requirements of the UKs Combined Code on Corporate iii.
the Committees role in overseeing the operation of the Governance the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Code integrity and compliance programme including the and US legislation, and the Committee meets the composition, whistleblowing facility.
operation and responsibility requirements of the ASX Principles.
The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit t evaluated the effectiveness of , agreed committees financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles the fees payable in respect of the 2010 audit, assessed their www.
com 119 Corporate governance continued independence in accordance with both UK and Australian Priorities for 2011 standards and US legislation and recommended to the board In addition to discharging the responsibilities set out above, the that they be proposed for re-appointment at the 2010 annual Committees priorities for 2011 include: general meetings.
t reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management t appointed a new external audit partner in accordance with the processes: policy governing audit partner rotation.
t oversight of the Internal Audit strategic review: t reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups third party provider of t focusing on training and development, particularly in relation Internal Audit services.
to new legislation and regulation, including the US Dodd Frank t engaged in training sessions on the governance process Act and the UK Bribery Act.
surrounding ore reserves and mineral resources.
Ann Godbehere, chairman t completed its annual performance evaluation and reported the results to the board.
Yves Fortier a Membership of the Nominations committee was extended to all non executive directors with effect from 1 January 2010.
Key responsibilities Key achievements in 2010 The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly During 2010, the Committee: assessing the balance of executive and non executive directors and t extended the membership of the Committee to all non the composition of the board in terms of the skills, diversity and executive directors of Rio Tinto: capacity required to ensure it remains relevant and appropriately aligned to oversee the delivery of Rio Tintos strategy.
t following consideration of the overall balance of skills, Taking into account these factors, the Committee develops and knowledge, experience and diversity on the board against agrees the desired profiles of potential candidates for board current and future requirements of the Group, conducted a membership.
In consultation with external search consultants, it rigorous search and selection process resulting in the then oversees a recruitment process to supplement the boards appointment of Ann Godbehere and Robert Brown as non skills or to replace directors as needed.
The recruitment process executive directors: and itself includes identification of suitable candidates, followed by a t considered the proposed annual re-election of directors, taking formal assessment of each candidate, leading to a final selection into account the boards policy on independence and the results process.
Proposals for new board members are submitted to the of the evaluations of the non executive directors: full board for approval.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for senior executive appointments, t undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the monitors executive succession planning and oversees the boards results to the board.
policy on external appointments of executive committee members.
Priorities for 2011 Governance processes t to review plans formulated for both executive and non The Committee meets not less than twice a year.
In 2010, the executive director succession : Committee met three times.
t to consider the implications arising from the annual re-election The members of the Committee are all independent and free of any of directors, including possible revisions to terms of relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their appointment: and responsibilties.
The chairman is considered independent under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Code.
Under the Code he is not t to monitor emerging regulation, including relating to diversity.
considered independent following his appointment as chairman, however the Code specifically allows the chairman to chair the Jan du Plessis, chairman Nominations committee.
The composition of the Committee is therefore also compliant with the Code.
120 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Committee on social and environmental accountability a Members 1.
Vivienne Cox a Vivienne Cox joined the Committee on social and environmental accountability on 30 November 2010.
Key responsibilities Priorities for 2011 The Committee assists the board to oversee management t To assess progress towards embedding a zero harm culture processes, standards, and strategies designed to manage social through the Group and its non-managed operations: and environmental risks and achieve compliance with social and t To continually review the approach to sustainable development environmental responsibilities and commitments.
The Committee to ensure it remains focused on the social, environmental, reviews the effectiveness of management policies and procedures economic and governance risks most relevant to supporting the relating to safety, health, employment practices, relationships Groups vision and delivering our strategy: with neighbouring communities, environment, human rights, land access, political involvement and sustainable development.
t To review work plans formulated for health, safety, environment, communities and employment practices: Governance processes The Committee meets not less than four times a year.
In 2010, the t To consider the implications of emerging legislation: and Committee met six times.
The chairman, chief executive, and t To continue to improve the diversity of the Groups workforce other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
The sustainable development review has been reviewed by the The members of the Committee are all independent and free of Committee and approved by the board.
any relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their responsibilities.
For more information read page 29 Key achievements in 2010 During 2010 the Committee undertook the following activities: t Reviewed performance during the year against each of the Committees core areas of activity: t Reviewed the adequacy of critical controls and corporate culture arising from publicised disasters external to the Group: t Assessed the Groups business resilience and corporate recovery programme: t Reviewed the processes for the management of key operational non financial risks in the Group: t Oversaw the conduct of an independent internal sustainable development assurance audit and reviewed the results: and t Undertook its annual performance evaluation and reported the results to the board.
com 121 Corporate governance continued Remuneration committee a Members 1.
Paul Tellier a Sir David Clementi was a member of the Remuneration committee until his retirement on 26 May 2010.
Key responsibilities The Remuneration committee assists the board to fulfil its oversight responsibility to shareholders to ensure that remuneration policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly and with a clear link to corporate and individual performance.
The report of the Remuneration committee on pages 128 to 155 has been reviewed by the Committee and approved by the board.
Key responsibilities, governance processes, key achievements in 2010, and priorities for 2011 are set out in the report.
Guy Elliott Key responsibilities The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board or as specifically set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the functioning of the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the board, the Chairmans committee will consider urgent matters between board meetings, and deal with the implementation of board decisions on transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than for the chairman of the board, the Committee performs the annual review of non executive directors fees and makes a recommendation to the board, as appropriate.
Jan du Plessis, chairman 122 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Reporting: the global practice leader, Mining, Technology & Australia and Canada forum Innovation: the chief adviser, Evaluation: the chief adviser, An advisory forum has been established in each of Australia and Orebody Knowledge, Technology & Innovation: the chief adviser, Canada to advise the board and executive management on Resources and Reserves, Technology & Innovation: the general political, economic and social developments in those countries manager, Resource Development, Iron Ore: and the chief which could affect the successful development of Rio Tintos geologist, Rio Tinto Exploration.
Each forum meets twice annually and is attended by the chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer, local Continuous disclosure committee directors and senior management.
The Committee is responsible for determining whether information relating to Rio Tinto may require disclosure to the markets under Management committees the continuous disclosure requirements in the jurisdictions in The chief executive has delegated authority from the board for which Rio Tinto is listed.
The members of the committee are: the the day to day management of the Groups operations.
The chief chief financial officer chair : the company secretary of Rio Tinto executive, chief financial officer and the heads of the product and plc: General counsel Asia Pacific: the head of Business global support groups share management responsibility for the Development: the head of Investor Relations: and the global management of the business.
The chief executive is assisted by the work of management Disclosure and procedures committee committees in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tintos The primary role of this Committee is to assist the board, Audit strategy.
The management committees are described below.
committee and individual directors and officers who are required Executive committee under various regulations to endorse the Groups shareholder reports and other public documents.
The members of the Committee are: The Executive committee is responsible, under the leadership of the company secretary of Rio Tinto plc chair : the global head of the chief executive, for the day to day management of the Planning & Reporting: the head of Investor Relations: the head of business, setting performance targets and implementation of the Compliance: and the head of Corporate Assurance.
Groups strategy and direction as determined by the board.
Based upon the financial authorities vested in the chief executive by the Closure committee board, each member of this committee has delegated financial This Committee oversees the closure management programme authorities, within a clear internal control framework, for the to manage the significant financial, reputational and operational management of their respective areas.
The members of the risk of site closures.
The members of the Committee are: the Committee are: the chief executive: the chief financial officer: the global head of Planning & Reporting chair : the global head of five product group chief executives: the Group executive, Health, Safety, Environment & Communities: the Group executive, Technology & Innovation: the Group executive, Legal & External Legal & External Affairs: the global practice leader, Communities: Affairs: the Group executive, People & Organisation: and the Group the vice president, Human Resources, Functions: and the Group executive, Business Support & Operations.
The activities of the Other management committees Committee are supported by a sub-committee to implement the closure management programme.
Other management committees have been established to monitor performance, maintain controls and support the delivery of the Risk management committee Groups strategy.
The Risk management committee assists the Executive committee Investment committee and the board in ensuring that robust risk management exists across Rio Tinto.
The Committee ensures that a sufficient level of The purpose of the Investment committee is to review proposals risk analysis is applied to critical decisions and provides assurance for major capital decisions to ensure that they accord with the to the Executive committee and the board that risk processes at all strategic objectives established by the board.
The members of levels are effective and compliant with overall risk policy.
the Committee are: the chief executive chair : the chief financial officer: the Group executive, Technology & Innovation: and the The members of the Committee are: the chief executive chair : Group executive, Business Support & Operations.
the chief financial officer: the Group executive, Business Support & Operations: the Group executive, Technology & Innovation: the Strategy and finance committee Group executive, People & Organisation and the Group executive, The Strategy and finance committee is responsible, under the Legal and External Affairs.
In addition, a product group chief leadership of the chief financial officer, to review and advise on executive officer attends the Committee on a rotating basis.
issues that arise in the day to day workings within the functional areas of the chief financial officers direct reports.
The members Global code of conduct of the Committee are: the chief financial officer: the global head Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and compliance is set out of Planning & Reporting: the global head of Treasury: the global in The way we work, our global code of business conduct and head of Taxation: the head of Investor Relations: and the head of one of the Groups most important documents.
Ore reserves steering committee The way we work contains principles and standards of conduct which reaffirm the Groups commitment to corporate The Ore reserves steering committee is the primary governance responsibility.
It is inspired by our four core values: accountability, body over the ore reserve estimation and disclosure processes.
It is supported by Rio Tintos The members of the Committee are: the Group executive, extensive framework of policies and standards.
Technology & Innovation chair : the global head of Planning & www.
com 123 Corporate governance continued Core policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, To ensure that trading in its securities takes place in an informed externally and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are market, the Group has adopted continuous disclosure standards communicated to business units worldwide, together with which are overseen by the Continuous disclosure committee and form mandatory standards, guidance notes and resources to support part of the Groups corporate governance standards see page 123. implementation.
Business units are required to devote the Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure to the listing authorities necessary effort by management to implement and report on of any information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect on its share price in accordance with their rules.
All information released to the markets is posted on the media Rio Tintos core policies, addressed in The way we work, include: section of the website.
access to land: business integrity: communities: corporate governance: employment: environment: human rights: internal In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features in controls and reporting: occupational health: political involvement: depth information on health, safety and the environment, as well government relations: safety: sustainable development: and as general investor information, publications and policies and transparency.
These are supported by policies in the areas of data guidance.
Full and half year results as well as any major privacy, risk, information management and security.
Presentation material from investor seminars is also made available on the website.
Each policy is supported by standards and guidance, expanding on the minimum expectations on topics such as antitrust, The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a continuous disclosure, antibribery, compliance, cultural heritage summary business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent and health, safety and the environment.
These policies and developments and to give them the opportunity to ask questions.
standards apply to all Rio Tinto managed businesses.
Where the Generally, the chairs of all board committees will be available to Group does not have operating responsibility for a business, Rio answer questions raised by shareholders and all directors are Tintos policies are communicated to its business partners and expected to attend where possible.
Rio Tintos external auditor, they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
Rio , attends the annual general meetings Tinto employees are required to undertake training about the and is available to answer questions about the conduct of the requirements of The way we work and other core policies.
audit and the preparation and content of the auditors report.
Any questions received and answers provided are made available Whistleblowing programme at that meeting, and shareholders have the opportunity to meet The board has adopted a whistleblowing programme called informally with directors after the meeting.
Employees may report concerns, including suspicion The main channels of communication with the investment of violations of the Groups financial reporting or environmental community are through the chairman, chief executive and chief procedures.
The Speak-OUT programme is independently financial officer, who have regular meetings with the Companies administered, confidential, and our employees can use this major shareholders.
The senior independent director, chairmen programme without fear of recrimination.
A process has been of board committees, and other non executive directors are also established for the investigation of any matters reported.
The senior independent director has a of Speak-OUT call activity are set out on page 39. specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, chief executive Dealing in Rio Tinto securities or chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or for Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto whom such contact is inappropriate.
securities by directors and employees with access to inside During 2010, these meetings with the investment community information.
These rules require those people to seek clearance focused on the issues of strategy, board succession: corporate from the chairman or the company secretary before any proposed governance: executive remuneration: and the operational and dealing to ensure that they do not deal when in possession of financial platform of the Group.
Further information on these inside information.
Directors and members of the Executive issues is set out on pages 18, 120, 114, 128 and 42 respectively.
committee will not be given clearance during close periods immediately preceding the announcement of annual and interim The Group also organises regular investor seminars which results.
The rules prohibit the hedging of unvested options.
provide a two way communication opportunity with investors The Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto securities comply with and analysts.
Feedback is communicated to the board.
Surveys the new requirements of the ASX Listing Rules effective from of major shareholders opinions and perceptions of the Group are 1 January 2011 and can be viewed in the corporate governance presented to the board by the Groups investor relations advisers section of the website.
Communication Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication with shareholders and the wider investment community.
124 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Internal risk control systems Risk management Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive Rio Tintos overriding objective is to maximise the return to committee and the Disclosures and procedures committee, regularly shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long term, review reports related to the Groups control framework in order to cost competitive mines and businesses.
The directors recognise satisfy the internal control requirements of the Code, the ASX that creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and Principles, the NYSE Code and US legislation.
Each year, the leaders accepting risk.
The risks facing shareholders are, to some extent, of the Groups businesses and administrative offices complete an managed by the Groups diversified portfolio of assets spread internal control questionnaire that seeks to confirm that adequate across multiple geographies, currencies and commodities.
internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are A description of some of the principal risks and uncertainties that designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, if any could affect Rio Tinto are found on pages 25 to 28. exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
The results of the internal control evaluation are presented to the Audit Risk policy and standard committee in support of their review of the Groups internal The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the controls.
Assurance functions, including internal auditors and business, and that it is characterised by both threat and sustainable development auditors, perform reviews of the integrity opportunity.
The Group fosters a risk aware corporate culture in and effectiveness of control activities and provide regular written all decision making, and is committed to managing all risk in a and oral reports to the Audit committee, Committee on social and proactive and effective manner through competent risk environmental accountability and management committees.
To support this commitment, risk is analysed in order to inform the management decisions taken at all levels In 2010, information was reported by management to the Audit within the organisation.
The principles of the risk analysis and committee to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the internal management process are set out in the Risk policy and standard controls and the management of material business risks.
In which is in the corporate governance section of the website.
addition, as part of their role, the board and its committees routinely monitor the Groups material business risks.
Risk approach Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material framework of risk governance and reporting specifying how the business risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk Group organises the handling of risk.
Together with the policy, and to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the framework makes up the Rio Tinto approach to identifying, material misstatement or loss.
Certain risks, for example natural evaluating and managing the material business risks faced by disasters, cannot be managed to an acceptable degree using the Group.
Clear accountability for risk management is defined internal controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties throughout the Group and is a key performance area of line in the international insurance markets, to the extent considered managers.
The Group has material investments in a number of The responsibility for identifying and managing risks lies with jointly controlled entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does Rio Tintos managers and business leaders at all levels, but a not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local number of specific roles have been defined to support the management of mining and related assets will comply with implementation of the framework.
The top level process has been Rio Tinto standards or objectives.
Accordingly, the review of their strengthened during 2010 by a review of the Groups approach to internal controls is less comprehensive than that of the Groups managing its risk, the appointment of a head of Group risk to this managed operations.
new role, and the introduction of a risk management committee Auditors and internal assurance that reports to the Executive committee.
Auditor independence Internal controls As indicated in the report of the Audit committee on pages 119 The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal to 120, Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the controls and for reviewing annually its effectiveness in providing independence of the Groups principal external auditors by shareholders with a return on their investments that is consistent prohibiting their engagement to provide other accounting and with a responsible assessment and management of risks.
This other professional services that might compromise their includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance controls appointment as independent auditors.
and risk management procedures and their effectiveness.
The directors have completed their annual review and assessment for The engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide 2010.
Whilst the Audit committee is responsible for oversight of the statutory audit services, other services pursuant to legislation, effectiveness of the risk management process, accountability for taxation services and certain other services are pre-approved.
Any identifying and managing risks rests with the chief executive and is engagement of the Groups principal auditors to provide other cascaded throughout the Group through the Executive committee.
permitted services is subject to the specific approval of the Audit committee or its chairman.
com 125 Corporate governance continued Prior to the commencement of each financial year the Groups Financial reporting chief financial officer and its principal auditors submit to the Financial statements Audit committee a schedule of the types of services that are The directors are required to prepare financial statements expected to be performed during the following year for its for each financial period which give a true and fair view of the approval.
The Audit committee may impose a financial limit on state of affairs of the Group as at the end of the financial period the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
and of the profit or loss and cash flows for that period.
This Any non audit service provided by the Groups principal auditors, includes preparing financial statements in accordance with UK where the expected fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the subject to the Groups normal tender procedures.
Companys affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is includes the information required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 authorised to engage the Groups principal auditors to provide of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups such services without going to tender, but if the fees are expected Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Australian to exceed certain pre-determined limits then the chairman of the Corporations Act 2001.
Audit committee must give prior approval of the engagement.
The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting Further information on audit and non audit fees as well as records, in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 and remuneration payable to other accounting firms, is set out in note the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
They have a general 43 to the financial statements.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and  have been the Groups auditors for detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also a number of years.
Each year, the Committee reviews the responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems are in place effectiveness of the external audit process and the independence to maintain and preserve the integrity of the Groups website.
Based upon its 2010 review, the Committee Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and was satisfied with the external audit process that was conducted dissemination of financial statements may differ from current and and that the independence of the auditors was in no way future legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by compromised.
The Committee does not consider it necessary to the auditors does not involve consideration of such developments undertake a tender process for the auditors.
In accordance with and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any rotation rules, the principal auditors engagement partners will changes, should any be made, to the financial statements after rotate every five years.
The UK audit partner will rotate at the they are made available on the website.
end of the 2010 audit and the Australian audit partner is due to rotate at the end of the 2011audit.
The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course Corporate Assurance of the preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct The Corporate Assurance function provides independent and themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the ethical standards of their profession and or business.
Groups systems for risk management, internal control, and The directors consider that the 2010 Annual report presents a governance together with recommendations to improve the true and fair view and has been prepared in accordance with efficiency and effectiveness of the relevant systems and processes.
applicable accounting standards, using the most appropriate The function has adopted international auditing standards set by accounting policies for Rio Tintos business and supported by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
The accounting policies The function operates independently of management, under a have been consistently applied.
The directors have received mandate approved by the Audit committee and the Committee on a written statement from the chief executive and the chief social and environmental accountability CSEA and has full financial officer to this effect.
In accordance with the internal access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the control requirements of the Code and the ASX Principles Group.
The head of Corporate Assurance reports functionally to Recommendation 7.3, this written statement relies on a sound both the Audit committee and CSEA, providing each committee system of risk management and internal controls and confirms with information relevant to their specific terms of reference.
that the system is operating effectively in all material respects A risk based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high in relation to financial reporting risks.
risk areas and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit Disclosure controls and procedures committee and CSEA for approval.
The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, services of external service providers.
The Audit committee has a with the participation of the chief executive and chief financial policy which addresses conflicts of interest in relation to officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the design and management requested engagements of the service provider.
The operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures policy complies with the IIAs standards on independence.
Certain pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the services are pre-approved under the policy as they would not be in period covered by this report and has concluded that these conflict with the internal auditors role.
There is a list of prohibited disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable services which may not be undertaken without approval of the assurance level.
head of Corporate Assurance, and guidance on the consideration of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
126 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Statement of compliance with The common management of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto governance codes and standards in 2010 Limited is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate In compiling this report, the directors have referred to The Combined internal control over financial reporting.
The Companies internal Code on Corporate Governance, published by the UK Financial control over financial reporting is a process designed under the Reporting Council the Code, the Australian Securities Exchange supervision of their common chief executive and finance officer ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 2nd to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of edition the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock Exchange financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of NYSE Corporate Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
the Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the ASX, Rio Tinto confirms that throughout 2010 and at the date of Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial this document the Group applied the principles of, and was compliant reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent with, the provisions of Section 1 of the Code and was also fully or detect all misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if compliant with the ASX Principles.
any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect from the NYSE Standards.
transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that its assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit practices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception.
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent with authorisations of management and directors of each of the directors, with written terms of reference which, in addition to Companies: and provide reasonable assurance regarding identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or and recommends to the board a set of corporate governance disposition of the Groups assets that could have a material effect principles applicable to the Company.
Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, information about which is Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of set out on page 120.
This committee does not develop corporate internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2010, governance principles for the boards approval.
The board itself based on the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by performs this task and approves the Groups overall system of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway governance and internal controls.
Commission COSO, and concluded that it was effective.
Rio Tintos website contains further information about the corporate There were no changes in the internal controls over financial governance framework.
reporting that occurred during the period that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the internal controls over financial reporting of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
