corporate governance report The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published in All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first annual June 2006 following a review by the Financial Reporting Council the general meeting after their appointment and to re-election thereafter Code.
The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors are of the Code.
appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provision of the Companies Act relating to the The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate removal of a director.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate governance and this statement describes how In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Chris Cole, the Company has applied the relevant principles of the Code.
Sat Dhaiwal and Ian Robson will offer themselves for re-election to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, Gary Iceton will be standing down as a director at the Annual General Meeting, having The Board completed two full terms as a non-executive director.
The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the chief executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and Non-executive directors A-Plant, the senior independent non-executive director and three other independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of the directors In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys practice are given on page 33. to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
Before appointment, non-executive directors are required to assure the Board that they can give The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board the time commitment necessary to fulfil properly their duties, both in agendas and encourages its effectiveness by the provision of timely, terms of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the telephone accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, and meeting preparation time.
The non-executives letters of appointment to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and The non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and when facilitates constructive relationships between the executive and nonrequired in the absence of the executive directors to discuss and appraise executive directors through both formal and informal meetings.
the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the executive directors.
In accordance with the Code, the non-executive The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, also them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors meet at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and undertake an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all Board members and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate Performance evaluation documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board and its The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against their respective through both the annual general meeting and by individual meetings role profiles and terms of reference.
The executive directors are evaluated with major shareholders, to develop an understanding of the views of additionally against the agreed budget for the generation of revenue, the investors in the business.
He also ensures that shareholders have profit and value to shareholders.
access to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees was The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of the directors, the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which the results of which were collated by the company secretary and enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes presented to the entire Board.
Based on this evaluation, the Board the leadership and responsibility for the direction and management of concluded that performance in the past year had been satisfactory.
the day-to-day business and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief executives role includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board Board committees decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding the conduct, activities and performance of the Group.
The chief executive Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Hugh Etheridge chairman, who chairs the Sunbelt and A-Plant board meetings and sets policies and direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
has relevant financial experience, Gary Iceton and Michael Burrow.
By invitation, the Groups finance director, Ian Robson, and its director All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of the of financial reporting, Michael Pratt, normally attend the Committees Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that the meetings, as do representatives of our internal and external auditors.
strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed in detail and Other directors are usually also invited to be present if available.
assessed critically to ensure they are aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and are compatible with the interests of employees, The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the year.
The principal areas considered by the Committee since the last annual report included: customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself those matters which reinforce its control of the Company.
These include treasury policy, the results for the periods ended 31 July 2009, 31 October 2009 and acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of directors or the 31 January 2010 and the results for the year ended 30 April 2010: company secretary, appointment and removal of the auditors and approval the external audit plan and key areas of audit focus for the year ended of the annual accounts and the quarterly financial reports to shareholders.
30 April 2010: Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the executive reports from the external auditor, Deloitte, related to the results for the six months ended 31 October 2009 and the year ended 30 April 2010. directors and the company secretary, to ensure the directors are suitably briefed to fulfil their roles.
The Board normally meets six times a year and The Committee considered the work done and the key accounting estimates and principal judgemental accounting and reporting issues: there is contact between meetings to advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet at least annually with the boards of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the company secretary and are able to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
37 the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte and, in that Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between context, the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to them.
The Committee 1 May 2009 and 30 April 2010 was satisfied as to their independence, objectivity and effectiveness: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination arrangements for internal audit during the year ended 30 April 2010 Number of meetings held 7 5 4 1 and 2011: Chris Cole 7 1 audit plans and reports from the internal operational auditors Sat Dhaiwal 7 responsible for auditing detailed operational controls at a store level: Geoff Drabble 7 1 the Group risk register and reports on the work of the Group Joe Phelan 7 Risk Committee: Ian Robson 7 the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial Michael Burrow 7 5 4 1 reporting policies: and Bruce Edwards 7 1 reports on matters referred through the Groups whistle-blowing Hugh Etheridge 7 5 4 1 procedures and any actions taken following appropriate investigation.
Gary Iceton 7 4 4 1 The principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditors, Deloitte LLP, for the year relate to their review of the Companys interim results and tax Finance and Administration Committee advice.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the nature of work undertaken The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, and the level of non-audit fees did not impair their independence.
Geoff Drabble chairman and Ian Robson.
The Board of directors has delegated authority to this Committee to deal with routine financial and Deloitte LLP was appointed external auditor in 2004.
In accordance with administrative matters between Board meetings.
The Committee meets APB Ethical Standards, which prevent the engagement partner responsible as necessary to perform its role and has a quorum requirement of two for the audit of a public company being involved for more than five years, members with certain matters requiring the participation of Chris Cole, the signing partner changed in 2008 9.
The Committee is again non-executive chairman, including, for example, the approval of material recommending to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
the 2010 Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of Deloitte.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor and in making its recommendation the Committee took into Internal control account, amongst other matters, the objectivity and independence of The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system Deloitte, as noted above, and their continuing effectiveness and cost.
of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
In doing so, the Group has taken note of the relevant guidance for directors, The Audit Committees terms of reference will be available for inspection namely Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code at the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and The Remuneration Committee comprises Gary Iceton chairman, Hugh managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in Etheridge and Michael Burrow, all of whom served throughout the year.
place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
Under its terms of reference The Committee meets as and when required during the year to set the the Group Risk Management Committee, which was formed last year, compensation packages for the executive directors, to establish the meets semi-annually or more frequently if required, with the objective terms and conditions of the executive directors employment and to set of encouraging best risk management practice across the Group and a remuneration policy generally.
Chris Cole and Geoff Drabble normally culture of regulatory compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk attend the meetings of the Committee to assist it in its work.
The Management Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee.
Committee also engages remuneration consultants to advise it in These processes accord with the Turnbull Guidance.
its work as and when required.
The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is designed None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is currently appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to or has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or an achieve business objectives.
Any such control system, however, can employee.
None of the executive directors currently serves, or has served, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material as a member of the board of directors of any other company which has misstatement or loss.
one or more of its executive directors serving on the Companys Board or Remuneration Committee.
The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with the The Remuneration Committees terms of reference will be available management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are documented for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The reviews consider whether any matters have arisen Nomination Committee since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or The Nomination Committee comprises Chris Cole chairman, inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers whether, as a result of Geoff Drabble, Hugh Etheridge, Gary Iceton, Michael Burrow and changes in either the internal or external environment, any new significant Bruce Edwards, all of whom served throughout the year.
The Nomination risks have arisen.
The executive directors reviewed the draft report for Committee meets as and when required to consider the structure, the 2010, which was then presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit size and composition of the Board of directors.
Committee and by the Group Board on 14 June 2010.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available for Before producing the statement on internal control for the annual report inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2010, the Board reconsidered the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
In particular, through the Audit Committee, it received reports from the operational audit teams and considered the status of implementation of internal control improvement recommendations made by the Groups Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 corporate governance report continued internal auditors and its external auditors.
The control system includes properly select and apply accounting policies: written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of accountability present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting and analysis provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: against budgets and latest forecasts.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Ashtead, the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions minor breakdowns in established control procedures can occur.
There are on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and supporting policies and procedures for investigation and management make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a of control breakdowns at any of the Groups profit centres or elsewhere.
The Audit Committee also meets regularly with the external auditors to discuss their work.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of procedures include: the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for management information, including a monthly profit and loss account safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and selected balance sheet data for each store: and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. accounting support centres: The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board, including income statements for the Group and each subsidiary, balance sheet the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with and cash flow statement: IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory counts the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and conducted at each profit centre by equipment type independently checked performance of the business and the position of the Group, together on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external auditors: with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists from a major financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
international accounting firm: comprehensive audits at the stores generally carried out annually Going concern by internal operational audit.
A summary of this work is provided The Groups operations and financial condition, together with factors likely annually to the Audit Committee: and a review of arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise to affect its future development, performance and condition are set out concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting in the Business and Financial Review on pages 6 to 31.
In particular, the or other matters.
Groups financial management and cash flow, including details of the Groups banking facilities are set out on pages 28 to 30.
In addition, note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups financial risk management Statement of directors responsibilities policies and processes, including its exposure to interest rate risk, currency The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for The Groups debt facilities are committed for a weighted average period the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of five years as of 30 April 2010 with the earliest significant maturity being IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS the ABL facility which continues until November 2013.
The Group finances Regulations and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the its day-to-day activity via the ABL facility under which excess availability Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors totalled $537m at year end.
Taking account of reasonably possible changes to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the in trading performance, used equipment values and the other factors that Companies Act.
might impact availability, the Group expects to maintain significant headroom under the ABL facility for the forthcoming year.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs After making enquiries, the directors therefore have a reasonable expectation of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that financial operation for the foreseeable future and consequently that it is appropriate statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the By order of the Board representation of the effects of transactions, as well as other events and conditions, in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: Eric Watkins Company Secretary 16 June 2010
