governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors The work of the committee during 2010 remuneration report for 2010, for which the Company will be seeking During the last year the committee: determined the outcome of awards for the Annual Performance approval from shareholders at the AGM on May 6, 2011.
Related Award Plan, All-Employee Bonus Scheme and Performance Share Plan for 2009 and set performance conditions for the 2010 The report: awards under those plans: explains the policy under which the executive directors, the Chairman considered the effect of foreign exchange movements on incentive plans: and the non-executive directors are remunerated: and agreed terms for the engagement of a new Chief Executive: gives details of the remuneration, fees and share interests of reviewed salary levels and participation in incentive arrangements for the directors.
executive directors and other senior executives: reviewed the implications of changes to tax relief on UK pension The remuneration policy framework arrangements: The Group operates in a highly competitive, international market.
Its reviewed the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 2009 business is complex, technologically advanced and has long time prior to its approval by the Board: and horizons.
The Group is committed to achieving sustained improvements considered the Group remuneration arrangements in light of the UK in performance and this depends crucially on the individual Corporate Governance Code.
contributions made by the executive team and by employees at all levels.
The Board therefore believes that an effective remuneration The committee will review regularly the policy and principles outlined strategy plays an essential part in the future success of the Group.
above to ensure that Group remuneration practice continues to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Accordingly we remain committed to a remuneration policy which, whilst sufficiently flexible to take account of future changes in the Groups business environment and in remuneration practice, will Helen Alexander CBE continue to reflect the following broad principles: Chairman of the remuneration committee the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives should reflect their responsibilities and contain incentives to deliver the Groups performance objectives without encouraging excessive risk-taking: remuneration must be capable of attracting and retaining the individuals necessary for business success: Introduction to the remuneration report total remuneration should be based on Group and individual The report provides the information required by the Large and Mediumperformance, both in the short and long term: sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the system of remuneration should establish a close identity of interest between senior executives and shareholders through measures such and describes how the Company applied the principles of the Combined as encouraging the senior executives to acquire shares in the Code in relation to executive directors remuneration.
Therefore a significant proportion of senior executive confirms that it complied with the requirements of the Code.
remuneration will comprise long-term share-based incentives: and when determining remuneration, the remuneration committee will The report was approved by the committee on February 8, 2011. take into account pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The committee The committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the The committee reviews regularly both the competitiveness of the Board on the Groups policy regarding executive remuneration.
The Groups remuneration structure and its effectiveness in incentivising committee determines, on the Boards behalf, the remuneration of the executives to enhance value for shareholders over the longer term.
Chairman and the remuneration packages of the executive directors and a number of senior executives.
A copy of the committees terms of reference is available on the Groups website at www.
67 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
