governance The committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive Advice to the committee directors.
The members of the committee and their attendance at During 2010, the committee had access to advice from inside and committee meetings during the year were: outside the Group from: the Chairman: Meetings eligible to Meetings the Chief Executive: attend attended the Finance Director: Helen Alexander CBE chairman 7 7 the Director Human Resources: 1 Peter Byrom 7 5 the General Counsel and Company Secretary: Peter Gregson 7 6 the Director Global Reward: John McAdam 7 7 the Group finance department: 1 Deloitte LLP : 1 Peter Byrom retired as a member of the remuneration committee on February 8, 2011.
Kepler Associates: and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the Companys lawyers.
In 2010, Sir Simon Robertson, Chairman, Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, the Director Human Resources and the General Counsel and Company 1 During the year, Deloitte LLP advised the Group on tax, assurance, pensions and corporate finance Secretary, attended meetings by invitation of the committee but were and Deloitte MCS Limited provided consulting services.
not present during any discussion of their own emoluments.
The main components of remuneration The main components of remuneration for all executives worldwide comprise base salary, annual incentive arrangements, long-term share-based incentives and benefits.
Executives are also entitled to participate in all-employee share plans.
COMPONENT SUMMARY TIMEFRAME MAIN FEATURES Base salary Set by the committee at levels required to recruit and Not Set annually on March 1.
Performance is taken into account.
retain high quality senior executives with reference to applicable the marketplace for companies of similar size, internationality and complexity and taking account of pay elsewhere in the Group.
Set with reference to the median of market practice.
One year Bonus potential: annual perFormance Measures set by the committee based on underlying plus two year - for on target performance, 75 per cent of salary for related award profit, cash flow and individual objectives and deferral executive directors and 81 per cent for Chief Executive.
- for maximum performance, 125 per cent of salary for Strong link between performance and remuneration.
executive directors and 135 per cent for Chief Executive.
Promotes share ownership and encourages decisions Bonuses can be increased by up to 20 per cent in the long-term interest of shareholders.
to reflect exceptional personal performance.
Compulsory deferral of 40 per cent of bonus into shares.
Shares vest after two years, subject to continued employment.
Three years Potential: rolls-royce group plc Conditional on corporate performance.
- for maximum CPS performance, 100 per cent of salary for perFormance Measures based on Cash Flow Per Share CPS, Total executive directors and 120 per cent for Chief Executive.
share plan Shareholder Return TSR and an Earnings Per Ordinary - for maximum CPS and TSR performance, psp Share underpin EPS.
150 per cent of salary for executive directors and 180 per cent for Chief Executive.
Shares vest after three years provided performance criteria are met.
ShareSave Plan a savings-related share option plan Not ShareSave options may be exercised in three or five years all-employee share plans applicable from the date of grant.
available to all employees allowing purchase of shares at a discount to the share price at date of grant.
Shares under the SIP vest after five years free from income Free Share element of the Share Incentive Plan SIP tax and national insurance.
where UK employees may receive shares as part of any bonus paid.
Partnership Share element of the SIP under which UK employees may make regular purchases of shares from pre-tax income.
In addition to the above, pension and other benefits, which are competitive in local markets, are provided.
68 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
