governance AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Membership of the audit committee The work of the committee in 2010 Audit committee attendance 2010 In February 2010, the committee reviewed salient features arising out of KPMG Audit Plcs audit of the 2009 accounts, reviewed the draft report Meetings eligible to Meetings and accounts and after consideration of a paper on going concern attend attended agreed to recommend the 2009 accounts to the Board.
Following Ian Strachan chairman 5 5 completion of the 2009 year end process, the meeting assessed the Iain Conn 5 5 2009 audit process and the strategy for the 2010 audit and considered John Neill CBE 5 5 the performance of the auditors.
The committee also considered and 1 John Rishton 3 3 recommended to the Board the Companys interim management statements and half-yearly report.
1 John Rishton retired as a member of the audit committee on September 30, 2010 on the announcement of his appointment as the next Chief Executive.
During the year, the committee closely monitored and approved KPMGs The audit committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive non-audit fees.
It also reviewed expenses incurred by Board directors directors.
Up to September 30, 2010, John Rishton and thereafter Ian and members of the Group Executive.
It received reports on the work of Strachan, both of whom have recent and relevant financial experience, the business assurance team and a presentation by the Chief chaired the committee.
In 2010, its other members were Iain Conn and Information Officer on IT and the Process Delivery function and by the John Neill CBE.
The committee met five times during the year.
The President Defence Aerospace on risk management in the defence Director of Risk, Head of Business Assurance, a representative of the business.
The committee also considered whistle blowing arrangements external auditors and the General Counsel and Company Secretary for the reporting of fraud.
Throughout the year, the committee received normally attend the meetings.
Additionally, the Director of Risk and the technical updates of relevant changes in the governance environment Head of Business Assurance have direct access to the committee.
The and in accounting standards and other reporting matters.
Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and any other Board member or senior executive may attend the meetings as Auditors independence necessary, at the invitation of the audit committee chairman.
In order to safeguard auditors independence and objectivity, the following policy is applied in relation to services provided by Responsibilities the auditors: The committee has responsibility for recommending the financial statements to the Board and for reviewing the Groups financial Audit related services the auditors undertake these services as it is work reporting and accounting policies, including formal announcements that they must, or are best suited to, perform.
It includes formalities and trading statements relating to the Companys financial performance.
relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars, risk management It is also responsible for the relationship with the external auditors and services, various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions for assessing the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, and disposals: which in Rolls-Royce is termed business assurance.
In addition, the committee reviews the Groups procedures for detecting, monitoring Tax, accounting and mergers and acquisitions the auditors are used for and managing the risk of fraud.
this work where they are best suited to undertake it.
All other significant consulting work in these areas is put out to tender: and The committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment of the external auditors and for reviewing the nature, All other advisory services consulting the auditors are generally scope and results of the annual external audit.
It also approves the audit prohibited from providing these services.
fee and, on an annual basis, assesses the effectiveness and independence of the external auditors.
A resolution to reappoint the Throughout the year the committee monitored the cost of non-audit auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and to authorise the directors to determine the work undertaken by the auditors and is, therefore, in a position to take auditors remuneration, will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
The action if at any time it believes that there is a risk of the auditors committee keeps under review the Groups internal controls and systems independence being undermined through the award of this work.
for assessing and mitigating financial and non-financial risk.
It also reviews and approves the business assurance work programme and ensures that this function is adequately resourced and coordinated with the work of the external auditors.
Twice a year, the committee receives a written report on the reviews conducted throughout the Group by business assurance and reports from senior executives on the key business risks and risk systems in selected sectors.
62 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
