governance The committee consists exclusively of independent, non-executive Advice to the committee directors.
The members of the committee and their attendance at During 2010, the committee had access to advice from inside and committee meetings during the year were: outside the Group from: the Chairman: Meetings eligible to Meetings the Chief Executive: attend attended the Finance Director: Helen Alexander CBE chairman 7 7 the Director Human Resources: 1 Peter Byrom 7 5 the General Counsel and Company Secretary: Peter Gregson 7 6 the Director Global Reward: John McAdam 7 7 the Group finance department: 1 Deloitte LLP : 1 Peter Byrom retired as a member of the remuneration committee on February 8, 2011.
Kepler Associates: and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the Companys lawyers.
In 2010, Sir Simon Robertson, Chairman, Sir John Rose, Chief Executive, the Director Human Resources and the General Counsel and Company 1 During the year, Deloitte LLP advised the Group on tax, assurance, pensions and corporate finance Secretary, attended meetings by invitation of the committee but were and Deloitte MCS Limited provided consulting services.
not present during any discussion of their own emoluments.
The main components of remuneration The main components of remuneration for all executives worldwide comprise base salary, annual incentive arrangements, long-term share-based incentives and benefits.
Executives are also entitled to participate in all-employee share plans.
COMPONENT SUMMARY TIMEFRAME MAIN FEATURES Base salary Set by the committee at levels required to recruit and Not Set annually on March 1.
Performance is taken into account.
retain high quality senior executives with reference to applicable the marketplace for companies of similar size, internationality and complexity and taking account of pay elsewhere in the Group.
Set with reference to the median of market practice.
One year Bonus potential: annual perFormance Measures set by the committee based on underlying plus two year - for on target performance, 75 per cent of salary for related award profit, cash flow and individual objectives and deferral executive directors and 81 per cent for Chief Executive.
- for maximum performance, 125 per cent of salary for Strong link between performance and remuneration.
executive directors and 135 per cent for Chief Executive.
Promotes share ownership and encourages decisions Bonuses can be increased by up to 20 per cent in the long-term interest of shareholders.
to reflect exceptional personal performance.
Compulsory deferral of 40 per cent of bonus into shares.
Shares vest after two years, subject to continued employment.
Three years Potential: rolls-royce group plc Conditional on corporate performance.
- for maximum CPS performance, 100 per cent of salary for perFormance Measures based on Cash Flow Per Share CPS, Total executive directors and 120 per cent for Chief Executive.
share plan Shareholder Return TSR and an Earnings Per Ordinary - for maximum CPS and TSR performance, psp Share underpin EPS.
150 per cent of salary for executive directors and 180 per cent for Chief Executive.
Shares vest after three years provided performance criteria are met.
ShareSave Plan a savings-related share option plan Not ShareSave options may be exercised in three or five years all-employee share plans applicable from the date of grant.
available to all employees allowing purchase of shares at a discount to the share price at date of grant.
Shares under the SIP vest after five years free from income Free Share element of the Share Incentive Plan SIP tax and national insurance.
where UK employees may receive shares as part of any bonus paid.
Partnership Share element of the SIP under which UK employees may make regular purchases of shares from pre-tax income.
In addition to the above, pension and other benefits, which are competitive in local markets, are provided.
68 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance Base salaries Deferred APRA The committee has commissioned salary benchmarks from Deloitte LLP.
For executive directors and selected senior executives, 40 per cent of The benchmarks have been prepared using their company size and APRA is delivered in the form of a deferred share award in the Companys complexity methodology.
For other participants in APRA, 33 per cent is delivered in the form of deferred shares.
The deferred share element operated for 2010 All salary increases must be justified on the basis of performance and are will result in share awards as described in the directors emoluments not automatic.
The committee is informed of pay and conditions table on page 72.
Details of deferred shares held under the plan are elsewhere in the Group and these are taken into account in determining shown in the table on page 76. remuneration for the executive directors.
A participant who is granted a deferred share award under APRA must Annual incentives normally continue to remain an employee of the Group for two years Executive directors and selected senior executives participate in APRA.
For from the date of the award in order for the shares to vest, although UK participants, APRA awards do not form part of pensionable earnings.
shares will be released early in certain circumstances including retirement or redundancy.
Target and maximum APRA bonus opportunity The committee considers that there should be a continuing emphasis on The value of any deferred share awards is derived from the annual bonus those at risk elements of remuneration, such as annual and long-term criteria and is therefore dependent on personal and business financial incentives, which directly influence the performance of senior executives.
This arrangement provides a strong link between For the Chief Executive, a 162 per cent maximum bonus opportunity performance and remuneration, promotes a culture of share ownership means that 62 per cent of combined basic pay and bonus opportunity is amongst the Groups senior management and encourages decisions in directly related to annual financial and personal performance.
the long-term interest of shareholders.
APRA TIMELINE Under APRA as operated in 2010, executive directors were eligible for awards in accordance with the table below: Start of performance End of performance Target bonus Maximum period period as a % of bonus as a 1 1,2 salary % of salary James Guyette 75 125 End of two year retention period Sir John Rose 81 135 Deferred share awards Andrew Shilston 75 125 allocated and cash Deferred shares awards paid Colin Smith 75 125 released Mike Terrett 75 125 1 The target bonuses are 60 per cent of the maximum bonus figure in the table.
2 It is possible for a bonus award to be increased by a further 20 per cent to reflect exceptional personal performance.
Therefore the overall maximum was 162 per cent for the Chief Executive and 150 per cent for the other executive directors.
1 Jan 11 1 Jan 12 1 Jan 13 1 Jan 14 The committee has determined that the bonus in respect of 2011 will be Other annual incentives operated on substantially similar terms to 2010.
There will be no change The same financial targets as set for APRA are used for the Managers to the maximum bonus opportunities for executive directors.
Bonus and the All-Employee Bonus Scheme AEBS.
The Managers Bonus typically enables managers worldwide to receive a bonus of up to ten per APRA performance measures cent of pay and the AEBS up to two weeks pay, based on corporate and The APRA performance measures set by the committee are based on the business performance.
Participants in APRA or the Managers Bonus do not Groups annual operating plans.
For 2010, the measures for executive participate in the AEBS.
directors included underlying profit, cash flow and individual contribution assessed with reference to the achievement of personal PSP objectives and overall personal performance.
Forty per cent of any APRA The PSP is designed to reward and incentivise selected senior executives bonus depends on personal performance.
In 2010, the level of who can influence the long-term performance of the Group.
The size of achievement against the financial measures was sufficient to generate awards under the PSP are set taking into account competitive levels within up to 100 per cent of the maximum bonus for individual participants the marketplace for UK companies of a similar size and complexity to the subject to the achievement of their personal objectives.
In 2010, Sir John Rose received a conditional award of shares with a market value at the time of grant of 110 per cent of his annual salary.
For 2011 bonus targets will also be determined with reference to profit, other executive directors and business heads the grant was 80 per cent, cash flow and personal performance.
The committee is mindful of and 65 per cent for other members of the Group Executive.
corporate, environmental, social and governance risks when setting personal objectives.
69 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance Under the rules of the PSP, selected senior executives are granted challenging earnings hurdle at the start of each three-year performance conditional share awards entitling them to a number of shares period, but, given the uncertain outlook for inflation and the increased determined by reference to corporate performance over a three-year proportion of turnover destined for markets outside the UK, the hurdle performance period.
The measures of corporate performance are will not necessarily be RPI plus three per cent per annum.
The hurdle for CPS, EPS and TSR.
These measures are considered particularly important the 2011 grant will require EPS to show real growth by exceeding a in generating shareholder value and are explained in more detail composite world inflation figure.
There is no retesting of the performance criteria and no automatic vesting in the event of a takeover.
In the three-year period The following CPS targets will apply to the grants to be made in 2011: to December 31, 2010, the Companys financial and TSR performance Aggregate CPS Percentage of over three-year performance period maximum award released generated 125 per cent of the number of shares conditionally granted 56p 30 in 2008.
83p 100 PSP TIMELINE The committee believes that these CPS targets are challenging and that Start of performance the performance necessary to achieve awards towards the upper end of period End of performance the range is stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as period providing guidance on the Groups performance over the relevant period.
PSP awards granted in 2011 For 2011, the size of awards under the PSP will be unchanged from 2010 and will be as follows: After tax shares 50% of after tax released subject shares continue PSP award overall to performance to be held under PSP award maximum criteria retention policy as a % of salary as a % of salary James Guyette 100 150 1,2 John Rishton 120 180 1 Jan 11 1 Jan 12 1 Jan 13 1 Jan 14 Andrew Shilston 100 150 Colin Smith 100 150 Performance measures Mike Terrett 100 150 vesting criteria Purpose of the measure Performance condition over three-year period 1 This is the same level as previously granted to Sir John Rose in 2010.
EPS growth Underpin to If EPS growth exceeds the hurdle, the 2 In addition, John Rishton will receive a special grant of shares intended to mirror the fair value of ensure any number of shares vesting will be shares forfeited on resigning from his current employer as described on page 71. payouts are determined in accordance with the Share retention policy supported by CPS targets.
sound If EPS growth does not exceed the The committee believes it is important that the interests of the executive profitability.
directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders.
The Aggregate Incentivise Below threshold cash flow target, deferred APRA award and the PSP provide considerable alignment.
CPS generation of zero vesting.
However, participants in the PSP are also required to retain at least one cash flow in line Threshold cash flow target, 30 per half of the number of after tax shares released from the PSP, until the with Companys cent vesting.
value of their shareholding reaches 200 per cent of salary for the Chief strategy.
vesting will increase on a straight-line Executive and 150 per cent for other executive directors.
When this level basis between 30 per cent and 100 is reached, it must be retained until retirement or departure from the per cent.
Details of the executive directors share interests are set out on TSR Align interests 50th percentile median and below, performance with shareholders no additional vesting.
The current executive directors have each complied with against FTSE by rewarding Above 50th percentile median the minimum shareholding requirement.
100 index outperformance vesting will be enhanced by 25 per of FTSE 100 cent.
For executive directors and All-employee share plans returns.
selected senior executives, a The committee believes that share-based plans make a significant straight-line basis will operate from contribution to the close involvement and interest of all employees in 25 per cent to a maximum of a 50 per the Groups performance.
Executive directors are eligible to participate cent enhancement for upper quartile TSR performance.
in the Groups all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees: The plan rules approved by shareholders in 2004 included a fixed EPS i the ShareSave Plan a savings-related share option plan available to growth hurdle of RPI plus three per cent per annum.
The rules permit the all employees.
In the UK, this plan operates within UK tax legislation committee to make adjustments.
Following consultation with major including a requirement to finance the exercise of the option using shareholders, the committee agreed that from the 2011 grant it will set a the proceeds of a monthly savings contract but the key principles are 70 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
