governance GOvERNANCE STRUCTURE BOARD Develops strategy approves the financial plan decides on allocations of capital takes major business decisions controls risk monitors progress ensures ethical standards.
The primary goal which underpins all board decisions is to create value for the long-term investor.
Audit committee Nominations committee Remuneration Ethics committee Risk committee Recommends the financial Recommends the Reviews recommendations Develops and implements committee statements to the Board appointment of executive on ethical matters made by the Groups Risk Recommends executive and non-executive directors external regulatory Management strategy and remuneration policy to reviews accounting policies assisted by external authorities or other bodies policy the Board reviews major results recruitment consultants develops the Global Code of reviews reports on key risks determines the announcements recommends the Business Ethics and reviews compiled from risk profiles remuneration of the maintains relationship with, membership of Board the Companys compliance prepared by management Chairman and the and recommends, the committees with it remuneration packages of monitors the total level of appointment of the external the executive directors and reviews succession planning oversees the enforcement of risk within the Rolls-Royce auditors a number of senior generally ethical conduct receives Group as a whole and approves the internal audit executives reports on issues raised within each business unit reviews specific work programme and through the confidential appointments to the Board assesses the effectiveness of reviews its work and the reporting line and any and to other senior the systems established by effectiveness of that subsequent investigation positions within the Group management to identify, function reviews the effectiveness of assess, manage and monitor oversees the annual review reviews internal controls the Companys external financial and non-financial of Board effectiveness and risk systems reporting of ethics policy risks and practice The Board Board attendance 2010 Sir Simon Robertson, as Chairman of the Board of directors, is Scheduled meetings responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on eligible to Meetings all aspects of its role.
Sir John Rose is the Chief Executive.
The division of attend attended responsibilities between them is set down in writing and agreed by the Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 8 8 Board.
Iain Conn is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
There Helen Alexander CBE 8 8 are currently 14 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive Peter Byrom 8 8 Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and eight Iain Conn 8 6 non-executive directors.
There were no changes to Board members Peter Gregson 8 5 during the year.
However, on September 30, 2010 the Board announced James Guyette 8 7 Sir John Roses intention to retire as Chief Executive on March 31, 2011.
John McAdam 8 8 John Rishton has been appointed to succeed Sir John.
Accordingly, John John Neill CBE 8 7 Rishton stood down from the ethics, nominations and audit committees John Rishton 8 8 on September 30, 2010 as he is no longer considered by the Board to be Sir John Rose 8 8 independent.
Andrew Shilston 8 8 Colin Smith 8 8 The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the Ian Strachan 8 7 Boards composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure Mike Terrett 8 8 the Boards effectiveness and also prevent any individual or small group 59 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance dominating the Boards decision making.
Each executive director The Boards primary goal and tasks receives a service contract on appointment see page 71 for further The primary goal of the Board is to ensure that the Companys strategy information and each non-executive director receives a letter setting creates value within an acceptable risk profile for the long-term investor.
out the conditions of his or her appointment.
In line with its primary goal, the Boards principal tasks are to: ensure the development of the Companys strategy and keep it under Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, rigorous review: which may be extended with the agreement of the Board, although monitor the implementation of the strategy, ensuring that the reappointment is not automatic.
Executive directors are employees who necessary financial and human resources are in place to deliver it and have executive responsibilities in addition to their duties as directors.
that effective controls exist to manage risk: Non-executive directors are not employees and do not participate in the safeguard the values of the Company, including its brand and daily business management of the Group.
corporate reputation and the safety of its products: oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure Under the Companys Articles of Association, one-third of the directors through effective succession planning and remuneration policies that are subject to re-election every year.
However, in accordance with the it is maintained at world-class standards: and UK Corporate Governance Code, a resolution will be put to the 2011 maintain an effective corporate governance framework that aspires to AGM to amend the Articles of Association to require that all directors deliver long-term value to shareholders.
stand for re-election every year.
The work of the Board 2010 The Articles of Association also provide that no person may be During the year, the Board received regular reports by executive appointed to the office of chairman in an executive capacity or to the directors on business and financial performance and engineering and office of chief executive, managing director or joint managing director of technology and received presentations on business issues, health, safety the Company, unless he or she is a British citizen.
No person may be and the environment, IT infrastructure and disaster recovery appointed to the office of director of the Company if, immediately arrangements, corporate governance, corporate affairs and quality and following such appointment, the number of directors of the Company process excellence.
It received reports on the activities of its committees who are not British citizens would exceed one half of the total number after each committee meeting.
The Board reviewed strategy regularly of directors of the Company for the time being.
A resolution will be put and also held a day-long strategy meeting.
to the 2011 AGM to allow either the Chairman or the Chief Executive to be either an EU or US citizen provided the other is a British citizen.
This In addition, the Board also approved: proposed change has been approved by the Special Shareholder.
The the report and accounts for 2009 and the preliminary announcement Board believe that in a global business, it is essential to have a wider pool and the 2010 half yearly results: of talent to draw upon for such key positions.
the budget for 2011: the final payment to shareholders in respect of the year ended Role of the Board December 31, 2009 and the interim payment for the year ending The Board is responsible to all the Companys stakeholders for its December 31, 2010: conduct and for the performance of the Company.
The day-to-day the acquisition by Rolls-Royce Marine AS of ODIM ASA: running of the Company is delegated by the Board to the executive revised banking arrangements and facilities for the Group: team under the leadership of Sir John Rose, the Chief Executive.
The the renewal of the terms of the Euro Medium Term Note Programme: Board retains responsibility for the approval of strategy and certain the actions to be taken to comply with the new UK Corporate matters which affect the shape and risk profile of the Company, as well Governance Code.
as items such as the annual budget and performance targets, the financial statements, payments to shareholders, major capital Board committees investments and any substantial change to balance sheet Details of the work of the Boards formal committees can be found on management policy.
Terms of reference for each committee are available on the Groups website at www.
The division of responsibilities between the Board and the executive team is set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the Board, Executive committees The executive governance structure evolved during the year.
In 2010, which also defines those decisions which can only be taken by the three new committees were established which report to the Group Board.
In 2010, the schedule was amended to include an overriding Executive.
The Executive Committee chaired by the Chief Executive and requirement for any high-risk item to be referred to the Board comprising the executive directors has nine scheduled meetings each irrespective of it falling within the delegated financial limit.
year with other directors joining by invitation.
It develops strategy, considers investment choices and provides leadership for the Groups businesses.
The Operations Executive chaired by the Chief Operating 60 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review governance Officer provides operational leadership driving world-class levels of cost, directors visit key sites and meet a cross-section of managers and quality and delivery.
The Functional Executive, chaired by the Finance employees to gain a better understanding of the Group and its Director, drives functional maturity.
In addition, as our businesses have operations.
Ongoing training is available for all the directors, including grown and developed, the leadership structure has broadened, with presentations by the executive team on particular aspects of the each business now having a governance structure which replicates business.
There is a procedure for directors to take independent broadly that of the holding company.
professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, every director has access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Independence of the non-executive directors The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its Board evaluation non-executive directors remain independent.
The Combined Code does The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least once a year not consider the test of independence to be appropriate to the without the executive directors present, in order to review the operation chairman of a company.
However, Sir Simon Robertson did meet the of the Board.
The Chairman has an annual meeting with each nonCodes independence criteria upon his appointment as Chairman on executive director to review his or her contribution to the Board.
His other significant commitments are described on Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of the executive page 56. and non-executive directors excluding the Chairman to review the performance of the Chairman, the outcome of which is reported back to The Board reviews the independence of the other non-executive him.
Each year, the Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief directors every year, based on the criteria in the Combined Code.
This Executive as part of the annual salary review process overseen by the review was undertaken in 2010 and the Board concluded that all the remuneration committee.
The Chief Executive reviews the performance non-executive directors were independent in character and judgement, of the other executive directors in the same way.
although following the announcement on September 30, 2010 of the appointment of John Rishton as successor to Sir John Rose as Chief In 2009, the Board asked outside consultants to assist it with a review, Executive, John Rishton has been treated as non-independent and which took the form of a facilitated self evaluation.
In 2010, the Chairman has retired from his roles as a member of the audit, ethics and led a review of the Boards effectiveness without the assistance of nominations committees.
This review consisted of confidential, unattributable, one-on-one discussions with each Board member and covered any The Board will again be asking shareholders to re-elect Peter Byrom as a subject Board members wanted to raise concerning the workings of the director even though he has served as a director of the holding Board, including governance, effectiveness, strategy development, company then Rolls-Royce plc since January 1,1997.
In so doing the composition, operations and dynamics.
The Board members Board has taken full account of the Combined Code requirement to unanimously agreed that the Board was working effectively.
The review consider carefully a non-executive directors independence where that highlighted the importance of the evaluation of strategy: risks including director has served on the board for more than nine years from the date engineering and technology risk: the continued focus on Board and of his or her first election.
The Board strongly remains of the view that executive succession planning: and the need to be aware of challenges Peter Byrom continues to be independent and there are no issues which to the business.
are likely to affect his independent judgement and that he is in no way dependent on the remuneration he receives from the Company.
Conflicts of interest Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can The Board believes that in a complex and technologically advanced have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, company with a long business cycle from the development of an engine with the interests of the Company unless that situational conflict has to its eventual retirement, it is highly desirable to retain at least one been authorised by the Board.
The Board has reviewed and authorised non-executive director with long-term experience.
all directors situational conflicts and has agreed that while directors are required to keep confidential all Company information, they shall not be Directors induction, training and information required to share with the Company confidential information received Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction by them from a third party which is the subject of the situational conflict.
programme and receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed information on the Group.
An existing executive director acts as a Indemnity mentor to each newly appointed non-executive director, giving The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of guidance and advice as required.
As part of their briefing, non-executive its directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that already provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 170 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover for any legal action taken against its directors and officers.
61 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
