governance GOvERNANCE CONTENTS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Simon Robertson 56 Chairmans introduction 64 Risk committee report Non-executive Chairman 56 Board of directors 67 Directors remuneration report Chairman of the nominations 58 The Group Executive and the 78 Shareholders and share capital committee International Advisory Board 80 Other statutory information Sir Simon Robertson was appointed to 59 Governance structure 81 Material litigation the Board in 2004.
He is the founder 62 Audit committee report 81 Annual report and financial member of Simon Robertson 63 Nominations committee report statements Associates LLP and Deputy Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc.
He is a non- 63 Ethics committee report executive director of Berry Bros & Rudd Limited and The Economist CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Newspaper Limited.
He is a director of The Royal Opera House Covent The UK Corporate Governance Code continue its progressive shareholder payment Garden Limited and a Trustee of The The Board attaches the highest priority to policy and the Companys practice of providing Eden Project and of the Royal Opera corporate governance, the system by which cash returns to shareholders in the most House Endowment Fund.
He is the efficient manner through the issue and the Company is directed, managed and former President of Goldman Sachs controlled in the interests of all its stakeholders.
He was knighted in The strength of the Companys corporate proposals will create a new non-trading Group the 2010 Queens Birthday Honours for values, its reputation and its ability to achieve holding company New Holdco which will be services to business.
Age 69. its objectives are influenced by the incorporated under the laws of England and Wales and have a premium listing on the effectiveness of the Companys approach Sir John Rose towards corporate governance.
London Stock Exchanges main market for Chief Executive listed securities.
A member of the nominations In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council committee introduced changes to the Combined Code, The new corporate structure will be Sir John Rose was appointed implemented by means of a scheme of which will now be known as the UK Corporate to the Board in 1992, having joined Governance Code, to help company boards arrangement the Scheme under Part 26 of Rolls-Royce in 1984.
He has been Chief become more effective and more accountable the Companies Act 2006 followed by a Executive since 1996 and will retire to their shareholders.
Changes include a clearer reduction of capital of New Holdco.
Under the from the Company at the end of statement of the Boards responsibilities terms of the Scheme, shareholders will March 2011.
He is a Trustee of The exchange ordinary shares in Rolls-Royce Group relating to risk, a greater emphasis on the Eden Project.
Age 58. importance of getting the right mix of skills plc for shares in New Holdco on a one for one and experience on the board, and a basis.
The Scheme will provide greater Helen Alexander CBE recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 flexibility in the capital structure of the Group Non-executive director companies be re-elected annually.
and provide distributable reserves to New Chairman of the remuneration Holdco.
Approval will be sought from committee and a member of the ethics The Board has carefully considered the shareholders for these proposals at the time of and nominations committees changes made to the Combined Code and the Groups annual general meeting AGM on Helen Alexander CBE was appointed intends to comply fully.
May 6, 2011 and the Scheme will also require to the Board in September 2007.
She is the sanction of the High Court.
President of the CBI and Chairman of Proposed arrangements for the creation of the Port of London Authority and of a new holding company Sir Simon Robertson Incisive Media.
She is a non-executive The Company is proposing a change to its Chairman director and chair of the remuneration corporate structure in order to generate February 9, 2011 committee at Centrica plc and senior appropriate reserves which will allow it to adviser to Bain Capital.
She was CEO of the Economist Group from 1997 to In the year to December 31, 2010, the Company was subject to the Combined Code on Corporate 2008.
She is also Chair of the Advisory Governance published in June 2008 by the FRC the Combined Code.
A printed copy of the code can be Council of the Sad Business School, obtained free of charge from FRC Publications, 145 London Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey, Oxford: Deputy Chair of the governors KT2 6SR - telephone: 44 0 20 8247 1264 and online at: www.
From January 1, 2011, of St Pauls Girls School and a trustee the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code which can similarly be obtained from the of the World Wide Web Foundation.
The Board confirms that throughout 2010, the Company complied with the Combined Code.
This report explains how the Company discharges its corporate governance responsibilities.
56 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
