governance The committee is responsible for reviewing compliance with the Groups The committee ensures that ethical policies and practice are subject to Global Code of Business Ethics Global Code and will, if appropriate, an appropriate level of internal audit and, where necessary, will appoint make recommendations to the Board for changes to the Global Code.
auditors to conduct an independent external review.
The Global Code sets out the principles to be followed by employees when conducting business.
The work of the committee in 2010 During the year, the committee reviewed and enhanced relevant The committee reviews recommendations on ethical matters made by supporting policies and procedures that provide detailed guidance and external regulatory authorities or other bodies and is responsible for support for the implementation of the Global Code.
The committee also making recommendations to the Board about whether these should be considered the impact of the new UK Bribery Act which is expected to applied to the Company and, if so, to what extent.
It also has come into force in April 2011.
In response, the committee has thoroughly responsibility for monitoring reports on issues raised through the reviewed its policies in this area.
In particular, policies on Gifts and Groups confidential reporting line and for reviewing the results of Hospitality and Commercial Intermediaries were updated during the year subsequent investigations.
with every relevant employee receiving training on the new arrangements and a new compliance organisation has been established.
RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Membership of the risk committee Specific committees have accountability for reviewing certain categories Risk committee attendance 2010 of risk.
The financial risk committee reviews credit, market or liquidity risks.
The ethics committee reviews those risks with a significant ethical Meetings eligible to Meetings dimension.
attend attended Sir John Rose chairman 2 2 The risk committee has developed a risk policy which states that risk James Guyette 2 2 management is a part of every managers responsibility and is to be Andrew Shilston 2 2 embedded within the day-to-day activity.
Colin Smith 2 2 Mike Terrett 2 2 The work of the committee in 2010 During the year, the committee agreed additions and retirements to the Group risk register and reviewed mitigation plans.
The committee The risk committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, and comprising all of received reports on business continuity and crisis management and on the executive directors, meets at least twice a year and is attended by the Anti-bribery and corruption programme.
It also reviewed the tools the sector presidents, the Director of Risk and the General Counsel and and processes used for risk management and reviewed the Groups Company Secretary.
Responsibilities Risk profile The Group has established and implemented a sound risk management The Groups risk profile has increased over the past five years which, in structure throughout the business that supports programme execution, part, can be attributed to the increasing maturity of the processes to informs decision making and, ultimately, helps to deliver better recognise and formally communicate risks.
The significant risks arising from economic downturn and financial The risk committee has accountability for the system of risk market disruption in that period have been or are being addressed by management and reports annually to the Board on the policy, process comprehensive mitigation strategies and plans.
The external business and operation of the risk management system and the principal risks environment is challenging and whilst competitive pressures remain facing the Group, including the treatment plans in place to manage high there are some early signs of recovery across all sectors.
The risk committee has responsibility for implementing the Boards policies on risk and internal control and reviews the results of the risk management process, which operates at all levels of the Group.
64 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review RISK ESCALATION AND MONITORING RISK ESCALATION AND MONITORING governance Had the Group remained so strongly dependent upon the civil Risk management process aerospace business, then its exposure to the cyclical downturn in the Rolls-Royce takes a proactive approach to the management of risk and economy affecting the global demand for air travel would have been recognises the risk management process as fundamental in achieving its much more severe.
While it is still possible that there may be a double business objectives.
Throughout the Group, risks are identified, assessed dip recession, the Group has performed well to date in the recessionary and managed through an established structured approach.
The benefits of a strong aftermarket business, a broad has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that ongoing portfolio of products across all businesses and the growing influence of processes and systems ensure that Rolls-Royce continues to be geographical diversification have all been factors in maintaining a strong compliant with the Turnbull guidance as contained in Internal Control: financial performance.
Continued development of the portfolio in areas Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
such as marine, energy and civil nuclear will further mitigate the risk.
Low probability high impact events that are beyond the range of THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS THE RISK ESCALATION STRUCTURE normal expectations have attracted a substantial degree of focus in 2010.
The European sovereign debt crisis threatening the euro, the April eruption of the Eyjafjallajkull volcano in Iceland, which shut down Europes airspace for six days, and the oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico have Group together resulted in a much deeper consideration of the risks to Assessment organisational resilience.
Business unit Function The reliability of our products remains a significant exposure and recent Risk events have highlighted the negative impact that any deficiencies could Identication Treatment Planning register have on the Groups reputation.
Management attention is on the safety Programme Department first culture and there is continuing engineering focus on product reliability and service lives.
Review, control Work package and communicate Principal risks and uncertainties The Principal risks and uncertainties, described in the table on pages 26 and 27, are among those that may have an impact on the Groups performance.
This is notwithstanding other risks and uncertainties that are currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group does not presently consider to be material.
The principal risks reflect the global THE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS THE RISK ESCALATION STRUCTURE nature of the business and the competitive and challenging business environment in which it operates.
Risks, including those to the Groups reputation, are considered under four broad headings: business environment risks: Group Assessment strategic risks: financial risks: and Business unit operational risks.
Function Risk Identication Treatment Planning register Programme Department Review, control Work package and communicate 65 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 RISK ACTION FLOWDOWN RISK ACTION FLOWDOWN Financial statements governance Business review governance Risks are defined as threats to the achievement of business objectives or A global network of risk champions, mentors and facilitators drives the to the continuing reputation of the Group.
As part of the business cycle, application of the standard process in each part of the business and each part of the Group is required to identify and record key risks helps to develop, embed and share best practice throughout the Group.
together with appropriate treatment activities.
Risks are documented in a framework of risk registers and are regularly reviewed and updated by The risk management process is subject to continuous improvement.
Over the past year, training material has been enhanced for all risk roles to ensure consistency of risk management capability for all levels of the The process provides methods for escalation and aggregation at every organisation.
The global uptake of risk training has more than doubled in level of the business: delegation to the appropriate levels within the comparison to 2009. organisation ensures that risk and treatment actions are owned, defined, resourced and effective.
The top-level corporate risk register is an As the Group broadens its portfolio and enters new territories through aggregation of lower level risk registers from where risks are escalated to organic growth and acquisition, it places increased emphasis on the be reviewed by the Board.
The Board also considers these risks in the need to understand the geopolitical risks inherent in the business.
context of the Groups business strategy.
Initiatives are underway to formalise, corroborate and respond to these risks.
This ongoing process has been in place during 2010, up to and including the date of approval of this report and the accounts contained within it.
Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for all major programmes, including business change plans.
Independent gated reviews are conducted where key risks and mitigating actions are identified and reported to management for incorporation into programme plans.
The risk management process places significant emphasis on learning from and sharing prior experience.
Continuous improvement of the risk management process Development, implementation and maintenance of the standard global process is the responsibility of a dedicated Enterprise Risk Management team, part of the Risk function, led by the Director of Risk.
The team has created a comprehensive framework for the assessment of risk management process maturity that enables focused improvement actions and drives consistent application of the risk management process throughout all levels of the Group.
An integrated range of tools and training supports the risk process.
Implementation of an enterprise-wide risk database application enables the recording, analysis, communication and management of risks across the Group.
66 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
