32 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance of the number of independent nonThis section of the report deals with how the Board executives referred to in this paragraph and its Committees discharge their duties and how the Company considers that it complies with the provisions of the Code.
we applied the principles in the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance June 2008 edition Internal control Board members recognise their the Code.
Here you will find detailed statements responsibilities to ensure that the concerning our compliance with the provisions of the statutory requirements to deliver balanced and understandable assessments of Code.
Following the publication of the UK Corporate the Companys position are achieved.
The Board is satisfied that these Governance Code June 2010 the 2010 Code responsibilities are met by using the the Board reviewed its implications.
Consequential financial systems and applying the procedures described below, supported changes made to Board procedures following that by our system of internal control: review are also referred to in this section.
using an appropriate system of accounting records, capable of operating with reasonable accuracy The role that Board Committees play in UK corporate and in compliance with local and governance is very significant and certain international financial and legal reporting requirements.
The basis responsibilities need to be overseen by directors used to prepare our Group financial statements is International Financial who are independent of the activities they are Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted required to oversee.
The Company financial statements and Directors Remuneration Report are prepared in Set out below is a commentary on how the Company accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally Accepted applies the main and supporting principles of the Accounting Standards: Code applicable to the accounting period applying using IFRSs to ensure a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group to this Report and Accounts.
Specific disclosures is given, including our profit or loss for the period: required within the provisions of the Code are also deploying appropriate accounting made within this section.
policies within the framework of IFRS and ensuring these are consistently applied: Code compliance statement making judgements and preparing The Board currently comprises the estimates that are reasonable and Chairman, four executive directors and prudent: three non-executive directors Code operating within the guidelines of all provision A.
As Rotork p. l. c. is the disclosure advice provided by UK considered a large company by the Code and international statute: it is recognised that full compliance A.
3.2 currently would require one considering whether adoption of the further independent non-executive to going concern basis is appropriate: be appointed so that half the Board, maintaining robust assurance excluding the Chairman comprise processes and controls over our independent non-executive directors.
The financial reporting procedures: Board has considered whether changes extending these principles to to the composition of the Board should half-yearly reports and other reports be made and has concluded that as in the public domain.
each of the non-executive directors are very strong and senior individuals The Board reviews the effectiveness of with experience of International FTSE the system of internal control and risk 100 Boards, sufficient non-executive management annually C. 2.1.
The review director strength exists on the Board.
covers financial, operational, compliance The Board intends over time to move and risk management controls.
The role towards full compliance with respect to of management is to implement and Board composition.
Subject to the matter maintain the internal control and risk Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 management systems.
The system of The Board reviews the role of within and external to the business, based internal control is designed to reduce but insurances in managing risk across on formal management information and cannot eliminate the risks of failure to reports and their interaction and daily the Group: meet business objectives.
Internal control dealings with those reporting directly The Board regularly receives written therefore can only provide reasonable but to them, their colleagues and external and oral reports from management on not absolute assurance in meeting such parties.
The process includes separate all aspects of production, operations, business objectives or against material exercises to identify and evaluate key risks financial and risk management matters.
at divisional level by each Divisional Board.
These divisional key risks are then collated Prior to the year end the full Board, The processes that are used by the Board and considered for Group materiality.
They following detailed consideration by the to review the effectiveness of this system of are then evaluated formally at a Group Audit Committee, formally reviews the internal control include the following C. 2.1 : risk review exercise attended by members effectiveness of the Groups system of of the Divisional Boards and the Rotork internal control.
During the year the Audit Committee: Management Board.
The non-executive directors are also invited to attend.
The Monitored and reviewed the output of that meeting identifies risks with Risk management effectiveness of internal audit activities: weightings for likelihood and Group impact.
A continuous process for identifying, Reviewed and monitored external auditor The principal risks and uncertainties facing evaluating and managing the significant independence and objectivity and the the Group are commented on in the risks faced by the Group continued to be effectiveness of the audit process: Business Review section of this Annual applied and developed during the year Considered reports from management, Report & Accounts.
under review and operated up to the internal and external audit on the date of approval of the Annual Report system of internal financial control and Internal financial audits are undertaken and Accounts.
any material control weaknesses: on a regular basis by a selected group of accountants drawn from head office Received reports on health & safety: Senior managers with responsibility and across the divisional businesses and Discussed with management the range across all functions participate in the geographic centres.
All these accountants of actions taken on problem areas risk management process on a regular participate in a training programme which for the business identified by Board basis.
During this process key risks covers internal audit, best practice and members or in the internal and external already identified are re-evaluated control procedures.
and new key risks facing the Groups businesses are identified and evaluated.
Work will continue to further embed internal Additionally: Their deliberations are reported to the control and risk management in the Audit Committee and Board by the Group The Board receives copies of the operations of the business and to further Finance Director who is responsible for minutes of all Audit Committee enhance and add to the relevant processes.
The process meetings and a briefing on all is based on senior managers detailed Audit Committee meetings by the The Board knowledge and understanding of key risks Committee Chairman: The Board currently has eight members comprising: the Chairman, the three Directors Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings A.
1.2 independent non-executive directors as accepted by the Code, and four Board Audit Remuneration Nomination executive directors.
Meeting Committee Committee Committee The Companys Articles of Association No.
of meetings 8 3 2 1 provide that one third of the directors Bob Arnold 8 n a n a n a shall retire from office by rotation at 2 1 Jonathan Davis 8 3 n a n a each Annual General Meeting AGM.
New directors are subject to election by 1 1 Peter France 8 3 2 1 shareholders at the first opportunity after Graham Ogden 8 n a n a n a their appointment A.
Additionally 3 1 from the 2011 AGM the Board has Bob Slater 1 1 n a n a decided that all directors will be subject 4 Gary Bullard 5 2 1 n a to annual re-election which is a new Ian King 8 3 2 1 provision of the 2010 Code for FTSE350 1 1 companies.
In line with the Code guidance, Roger Lockwood 8 3 2 1 non-executive directors are normally John Nicholas 8 3 2 1 appointed for an initial term of three years, 3 Alex Walker 2 1 1 n a which is then reviewed and extended for up to a further two three year periods 1 By Invitation.
On appointment directors receive Jonathan Davis was appointed to the Board in April 2010 and attended the February 2010 board a suitable and tailored induction A.
3 Bob Slater retired in March 2010 and Alex Walker resigned in April 2010.
There is a clear division of responsibility 4 Gary Bullard joined the board of Rotork p. l. c. as a Non-Executive Director in June 2010 and attended all approved by the Board in writing between board and committee meetings following his appointment.
the Chairman, RC Lockwood, and the 34 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Chief Executive, PI France, that ensures future strategy, following submissions Nomination Committee that there is a balance of power and by management, at Board meetings and, Responsibilities on occasion, separate strategy meetings.
authority between the running of the Board Reviewing regularly the composition The non-executive directors constructively and the executive responsibility for the of the Board and making running of the Companys business A.
2.1. challenge and help develop proposals recommendations to the Board on strategy at those meetings.
The IG King is the current senior independent on any desired changes: decisions which are left to management non-executive director A.
Planning for the orderly succession are all those related to the successful of new directors to the Board including, operation and management of the There are usually at least eight meetings identifying and nominating for the Companys business and in implementing of the Board which take place throughout Boards approval suitable candidates the commercial strategy within the the year A.
1.1. to fill non-executive vacancies: limits set by the Board annually for Recommending to the Board the overall operational budgets and capital During the year Board meetings are membership of Board Committees.
1.1. scheduled at manufacturing sites other than the Companys headquarters in Bath.
Composition The Chairman ensures that meetings This allows, in particular, non-executive The Nomination Committees members of non-executives without the executives directors to meet management at these during the year under review were present are held A.
All directors sites and receive presentations from them.
RC Lockwood who chairs the Committee, have access to the advice and services During the year under review the Board A Walker, IG King, JE Nicholas, G Bullard of the Company Secretary and through visited and held Board meetings at its and PI France.
A Walker retired from the him they can request and obtain manufacturing site in Lucca, Italy.
Committee during the year and G Bullard independent professional advice at the was appointed to the Committee.
The Companys expense where they judge it The Chairman ensures through the Nomination Committee comprises three necessary to discharge their responsibilities Company Secretary, that the Board independent directors, the Chief Executive as directors A.
The Agenda and all relevant information and the Chairman.
A majority of the Company maintains appropriate directors is provided to the Board sufficiently in members of the Nomination Committee and officers insurance cover A.
The Chairman and are therefore independent non-executive Company Secretary discuss the Agenda directors as accepted by the Code ahead of every meeting.
At meetings the Share capital A.
Chairman ensures that all directors are Information on the Companys share able to make an effective contribution The Terms of Reference of the capital is provided on page 43 of the throughout meetings and every director Nomination Committee can be Directors Report.
is encouraged to participate and provide accessed on the Companys website opinions for each Agenda item.
com in the Investors Performance evaluation Chairman always seeks to achieve section under Corporate Governance A formal process for performance unanimous decisions of the Board Committees A.
4.1. evaluation of the Board, its Committees following due discussion of Agenda items.
and individual directors takes place The Schedule of Reserved Matters details Activities during the year annually.
For 2010, the evaluation took those matters specifically reserved for A major part of the work of the Committee the form of an initial questionnaire Board decision.
The types of decision during the year involved the appointment prepared in conjunction with external which are reserved for Board decision of a new Group Finance Director to take consultants covering a wide range of relate to matters which cannot, or the effect from 1 April 2010.
Having identified Board related matters.
The responses Board considers should not, be delegated Jonathan Davis as a suitable internal to the questionnaire were then to the Chief Executive and executive candidate the Nomination Committee considered by the Chairman, who then arranged appropriate external assessments management.
They include approval conducted individual interviews with to be undertaken of his suitability for the of Group commercial strategy and the directors taking account of trends succession planning, approval of Group post as well as face-to-face meetings with in the questionnaire responses as well all members of the Nomination Committee.
annual operating and capital expenditure as individual points.
This questionnaire During the year the Committee also budgets, recommendations for payment was developed and enhanced following recommended the appointment of Gary of the final proposed dividend and feedback in previous evaluations to focus Bullard as a non-executive director and decisions for interim dividends and on those matters that the Chairman Chairman of Remuneration Committee.
dividend policy, approval of the Annual considered were of most interest to Board An external consultant was engaged to Report & Accounts and announcements members following previous comment.
of final and interim results, ensuring The results and analysis including sound internal control and risk the main findings of the evaluation management, executive director were, following the questionnaire and remuneration, corporate governance interviews, reported to the Board by the matters including Board and Committee Chairman.
Appropriate action will be performance appraisals and Board and taken on the findings during the following Committee membership.
The directors year and then re-evaluated at the next also have powers to issue and buy back annual evaluation.
The evaluation to be the Companys shares conferred annually conducted in 2011 will use an external by the shareholders at the AGM.
The facilitator complying with the 2010 Code.
Board regularly considers and discusses Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35 Group Finance Director and the external response and the programmes and Audit Committee auditors and considers the compliance of resourcing for 2010 and 2011: Main Responsibilities the financial statements with International Monitoring health & safety performance Reviewing the effectiveness of the Financial Reporting Standards.
It also data and receiving reports from the Companys financial reporting, internal has responsibility for reviewing the Rotork Management Board member control policies and procedures for the effectiveness of the Groups system of responsible for health & safety practice identification, assessment and reporting internal controls and risk management and procedures: of risk: systems, details of which can be found A review of new regulations and Monitoring the role and effectiveness of on page 33 of this Annual Report.
At governance regarding the operation and the internal audit function: least once during each financial year responsibilities of audit committees: and Keeping the relationship with the the Committee meets with the external A review of the Terms of Reference auditors under review, including the auditors, separately, without executive of the Committee, its performance Terms of Engagement and fees, and management present.
This provides against those terms and the 2011 their independence: an additional opportunity for an open work programme for the Committee.
exchange of views and feedback.
Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements: The Committee oversees the relationship The Committee operates under formal Reviewing significant financial reporting with the external auditors: is responsible Terms of Reference and these are reviewed issues and judgements.
for their appointment, reappointment and annually.
The Committee considers that remuneration: reviews the effectiveness it has discharged its responsibilities as of the external audit process: and ensures Composition set out in its Terms of Reference to the that the objectivity and independence The Audit Committee the Committee extent appropriate during the year.
Specific of the Board is currently comprised of of the external auditors is maintained.
matters reviewed by the Committee during Representatives from the auditor report to three non-executive directors, 2010 included: the Committee on their independence and JE Nicholas, IG King and G Bullard.
objectivity and the mechanisms employed During the year under review A Walker Reviewing the integrity of the Rotork to ensure this is maintained.
There are retired as a member of the Committee Group full-year results and half-yearly and G Bullard was subsequently also Group policies in place regarding results, including reports from the the employment of ex-audit staff and the appointed.
JE Nicholas was Chairman of Group Finance Director and the external provision of non-audit services.
the Committee throughout the year.
There auditors on those results: were therefore at all times throughout Reviewing the preliminary and half-year During the review of the auditors the year three independent non-executive announcements: directors who were members of the independence, the Committee considered whether KPMG had met the agreed audit Audit Committee C. 3.1.
The Board is Consideration, and recommendation plan including any work undertaken to satisfied that at least one member of to the Board, of the implementation address any changes in perceived risks: the Committee, JE Nicholas, has recent of significant accounting policies for the robustness and perceptiveness of and relevant financial experience having the 2010 financial year: recently served as a Finance Director the auditors handling of key accounting Reviewing the Annual Report: judgements: responses to questions from of a large listed company.
He is also a Reviewing external audit findings: the Committee and feedback about the member of the Financial Reporting Review conduct of the audit from key finance Panel of the Financial Reporting Council.
Reviewing and approving the external personnel within the Company.
The Finance Director, Chief Executive, audit plan, the proposed fees for the Chairman and the external auditors 2010 year end and the engagement The Committee, having considered all normally attend meetings and there is a letters: relevant matters, has concluded that it meeting at least once a year between the Reviewing the effectiveness, is satisfied that auditor independence Committee and the external auditors at independence and objectivity of the and objectivity have been maintained.
which management is not present.
external auditors and considering their As such, the Committee does not reappointment: consider that it would be appropriate at Activities during the year Monitoring the effectiveness of the this time to put the audit out to tender The Committee met three times during the risk management process, including but will continue to keep this under year.
An annual Rolling Audit Committee an annual review of all key Group risks review.
Following these considerations Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and identified and mitigating controls: ensures that all matters within the Audit the Committee made a recommendation Monitoring the effectiveness of the which was accepted by the Board that Committees Terms of Reference are resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc appropriately covered.
Groups system of internal controls be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
including reviewing significant internal The Committees responsibilities include audit reports and findings: monitoring the integrity of the Groups A policy that formalises the arrangements Reviewing the non-audit services policy regarding the provision of non-audit financial statements and reviewing the and the services approved: services provided by the auditors of results announcements.
In fulfilling this Monitoring and reviewing the Rotork sets out the procedures for the responsibility the Committee considers effectiveness of internal audit activities, pre-approval of such services.
All nonsignificant financial reporting judgements which included: a review of the internal made by management, taking into audit services provided by the auditors are audit charter: audits carried out, the pre-approved by either the Group Finance account the reports received from the results thereof and managements Director or the Committee Chairman under 36 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance delegated approval authorities from the Relations with Shareholders Committee.
The breakdown of the fees Communication with shareholders is given paid to the external auditors, including high priority.
All members of the Board the split between audit and non-audit receive copies of all analysts reports of fees, is included in note 8 to the which the Company is made aware.
Board receives non-attributable comments from analyst meetings and shareholder The internal audit function is undertaken meetings after both interim and final by members of the Groups finance results D. 1.1 and other updates from its departments who all have other distinct corporate advisers.
Further detail is provided in the reports at each Board meeting upon his Internal Control section.
The Group Finance meetings with analysts, fund managers Director is also Head of Internal Audit.
The Company This method of internal audit is reviewed Secretary has written on behalf of the annually by the Committee.
The Committee Board to the Companys major shareholders remains satisfied with the arrangements offering meetings with the non-executive which ensure a comprehensive internal directors and requesting shareholders audit programme is undertaken across to confirm they are content with current the Groups extensive function at each Board level contact with the Company meeting.
The internal audit reports include and communication to non-executives.
details of audits carried out, the results and The Chairman attends the preliminary and managements response to matters raised interim announcements in London with the during the audits.
Chief Executive and Finance Director and is available to meet fund managers and The Terms of Reference of the Audit analysts on those days.
Committee which are reviewed at least annually by the Committee are Individual shareholders have an opportunity available to view on the Companys to put questions to the Chairman at the website www.
com in the Investors AGM and individual shareholder enquiries section under Corporate Governance are dealt with throughout the year by the Committees C. 3.2 and C. 3.3.
There were no changes to the Terms of At the AGM all proxy votes are counted Reference in the year under review.
The and except in the event of a poll being Committee considers the appointment of called the balance for and against the the Auditor C. 3.6 and recommends to resolution and the number of votes the Board, the audit fees for shareholder withheld is displayed for shareholders, approval at the AGM.
after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Prior to the AGM the Company The work undertaken by the Committee Secretary reports to the Board on the in discharging its internal control results of the proxy returns and on the responsibilities is described under the comments and analysis undertaken by Internal Control section above.
A separate resolution is prepared on each substantially Remuneration Committee separate issue D. 2.1.
The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination The work of the Remuneration Committee Committees are available to answer is described in the Remuneration Report on questions at the AGM and all directors pages 37 to 42.
The Chairman and Chief attend D. 2.3.
The Notice of AGM and Executive were invited to and did attend all related papers are sent to shareholders meetings but both were not in attendance at least 20 working days before the when their own remuneration and fees meeting D. 2.4. respectively were considered B.
