It also oversees the policies provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Committee described in the Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance 2008 the Code, except that in the period to 4 May 2010, Statement as well as the Groups The Corporate Governance Committee the Audit Committee consisted of only is responsible for overseeing the Group environmental policies.
The Committee two independent Non-Executive Directors.
structure and organisation and evaluating consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive On appointment of Robert Miller-Bakewell these in the context of developments in and Company Secretary.
The to that Committee full compliance with Combined Code Committee keeps the Board and its other the Code was achieved.
The table below 44 The Company has, throughout the year to summarises how the Company has applied committees appraised of developments that may impact their structure and 31 December 2010, complied with all each of the provisions of the Code: Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should meet regularly to discharge its duties.
1.1 Compliant 47-48 schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
The annual report should include a statement of how the Board operates, including a high level statement of which types of decisions are to be taken by the Board and which are delegated to management.
The Annual Report should identify the Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior A.
1.2 Compliant 42-43 Director and Chairman and Independent Non-Executive members of Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It should also set out the number of meetings held and individual attendance.
The Chairman should hold meetings with Non-Executive Directors without A.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Directors should meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running of A.
1.4 Compliant 48 the Company or a proposed action these concerns should be recorded in the Board minutes.
On resignation these concerns should be provided in a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Company should arrange appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal A.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive should be split.
2.1 Compliant 47 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should be independent.
2.2 Compliant 47 The Board should identify in the annual report each Non-Executive Director it A.
3.1 Compliant 42 considers to be independent.
At least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive A.
3.2 Compliant 47 Directors determined by the board to be independent.
Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Board should appoint one of the Independent Non-Executive Directors to be A.
3.3 Compliant 47 the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
There should be a Nomination Committee.
A majority of the members should be A.
The Chairman or independent non-executive director should chair the committee unless it is dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
The Nomination Committee should make available its terms of reference.
The Nomination Committee should evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and A.
4.2 Compliant 58-59 experience on the Board and evaluate the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
45 On appointment of a Chairman, the Nomination Committee should prepare a job A.
A Chairmans other significant commitments should be disclosed to the Board before appointment and included in the Annual Report.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors should be made A.
4.4 Compliant 55 available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The annual report should describe the work of the Nomination Committee, including A.
4.6 Compliant 58-59 processes it has used in relation to Board appointments.
An explanation should be given if neither an external search consultancy nor open advertisement has been used in the appointment of a non-executive director.
New Directors should receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining the Board.
5.1 Compliant 48 Shareholders should be offered the opportunity to meet the new Non-Executive.
All Directors should have access to independent professional advice.
5.2 Compliant 48 Committees should be provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors should have access to the advice and services of the Company A.
5.3 Compliant 48 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
The Board should state in the Annual Report how it evaluates the performance of the Board, A.
6.1 Compliant 48 its committees and its individual Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior Independent Director should be responsible for performance evaluation of the Chairman.
All Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General A.
7.1 Compliant Notice Meeting after their appointment, and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more of than three years.
The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election should Meeting be accompanied by sufficient biographical details and any other relevant information.
The Non-Executive Directors should be appointed for specified terms subject to A.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant B.
1.1 Compliant 49 proportion of the total remuneration package of the Executive Directors.
Share options should not be offered at a discount.
1.2 Compliant 54 Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors should reflect the time commitment and B.
1.3 Compliant 55 responsibilities of the role and should not include share options.
The Remuneration Committee should consider what compensation commitments B.
1.5 Compliant 55 the Directors terms of appointment would entail in the event of early termination.
Notice or contract periods of Executive Directors should be one year or less.
1.6 Compliant 55 A Remuneration Committee should be established with at least three Independent B.
The Remuneration Committee should make available its terms of reference.
com Corporate Governance continued Combined Code paragraph Comment Page The Remuneration Committee should set remuneration for all executives.
2.2 Compliant 49-54 The Remuneration Committee should recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
The Board should determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
2.3 Compliant 55 Shareholders should be invited specifically to approve all new long-term incentive B.
2.4 Compliant 50 schemes as defined in the Listing Rules and significant changes to existing schemes.
The Directors should explain in the annual report their responsibility for preparing accounts C. 1.1 Compliant 65-67 and there should be a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors should report that the business is a going concern.
C. 1.2 Compliant 65 The Board should conduct at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups C. 2.1 Compliant 58 system of internal controls and should report to shareholders that they have done so.
46 The Board should establish an Audit Committee with at least three members C. 3.1 Compliant 57 who should all be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
At least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The role and responsibility of the Audit Committee should be set out in written terms C. 3.2 3.3 Compliant 57-58 of reference.
This should be disclosed in the annual report.
The Audit Committee should review arrangements by which staff of the Company C. 3.4 Compliant 57 may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee should consider annually whether there is a need for an C. 3.5 Compliant 57 internal audit function and make a recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee should have primary responsibility for making a recommendation C. 3.6 Compliant 57 on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
If the Board does not accept the Audit Committees recommendation it should C3.6 Compliant n a include in its annual report a statement explaining why the Board take a different position.
The annual report should explain to shareholders how independence is C. 3.7 Compliant 57 safeguarded if the auditor provides non audit services.
The Chairman should ensure that the views of the shareholders are disclosed to the D. 1.1 Compliant 39 Board as a whole.
The Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy with the shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major shareholders in order to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of the shareholders.
The Board should state in their Annual Report the steps they have taken to ensure Board D. 1.2 Compliant 39 members develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Company.
The Company should propose a separate resolution at the AGM on each substantially D. 2.1 Compliant Notice separate issue and should in particular propose a resolution at the AGM relating of to the report and accounts.
Meeting The Company should count all proxy votes and indicate the level of proxies D. 2.2 Compliant lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution and the number of abstentions.
The Company should ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees should attend the D. 2.3 Compliant 39 AGM in order to be available to answer questions.
The Company should arrange for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to D. 2.4 Compliant Notice of shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Meeting On appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director to the Committee in May 2010 compliance with this provision was achieved.
Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance Board Responsibilities 11.
To maintain, together with our management of all the Groups business brokers, an active Investor Relations activities.
The Board has a schedule of matters that programme designed to ensure full are reserved for its decision.
The Non-Executive Directors are in the exposure of the RPS investment case opinion of the Board all independent of The key responsibilities of the Board are to appropriate fund managers in the management and contribute independent as follows: UK, Europe and USA.
judgement as well as extensive knowledge 1.
To ensure that the Group maintains 12.
To maintain contact with a wide range and experience to the proceedings of the a strategy that is capable of delivering of analysts and brokers to ensure Board.
The Chairman was independent realistic returns to shareholders.
current independent research is on appointment.
To organise and monitor the available to the market.
Directors are appointed for three year performance of the Groups operations terms which are subject to re-election.
To maintain systems of corporate through the Divisional structure.
Any term beyond six years for a Nongovernance compliant with the 47 Executive is rigorously reviewed, looking 3.
To keep that structure under review Combined Code and appropriate at the requirement to refresh the Board.
and be prepared to change the for a company of RPS type and size.
With effect from the 2011 Annual number and nature of the Divisions in To discuss these matters with major General Meeting all directors will be order both to take account of market shareholders on a regular basis.
opportunities and also to deal with 14.
To ensure that the Group operates management issues.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have appropriate risk management systems clear and distinct roles.
To clarify any ambiguities in the in respect of all aspects of its business.
of the Chairman are to conduct Board authority, responsibilities and 15.
To ensure that the Group has in place meetings as well as meetings of obligations of the various parts of the IT systems appropriate for the proper shareholders and to ensure that all Divisions both in terms of managing operation of the business and its likely Directors are properly briefed in order to their businesses and reporting upon expansion.
take a full and constructive part in Board those businesses.
The Chief Executives role is 16.
To ensure that the Group has in place 5.
To keep under review the to develop and lead business strategies both a web-site and an intranet that composition of the Divisional and processes to enable the Groups provides an effective communication Management teams and monitor business to meet the requirements of medium for staff, clients and others their performance, being prepared to its clients and the needs of its staff with an interest in RPS.
make changes in order to maintain and shareholders.
To ensure that the Group has or improve performance in terms of The Senior Independent Director is sufficient and adequate funding in both delivery to clients and financial available to shareholders who wish to place to maintain its strategy.
raise concerns that cannot be resolved The Board is also responsible for the 6.
To ensure the Group and Divisional through the Chairman, Chief Executive or financing of the Group, material capital Boards have policies in place to attract Finance Director.
Roger Devlin acted as commitments, commencing or settling and retain high quality staff.
Senior Independent Director throughout major litigation, corporate acquisitions 7.
To manage and promote the RPS the year under review.
and disposals, appointments to subsidiary brand by ensuring it has an adequate The Board is assisted by the Audit, company boards and anything else profile amongst the client base and is Remuneration, Nomination, Corporate which may materially affect the Groups respected and strengthened.
Governance and Executive committees, performance.
To keep under review opportunities all of which activities are described in this obtain Board approval is communicated to extend the range of products report.
The Chairman of each Committee widely throughout the Groups senior RPS offers and the sectors in which provides updates as to its activities at management.
To keep under review opportunities Board Operations At the date of this report the Board to extend the geographic areas in The Board generally meets on a monthly comprised four Executive and six which RPS operates.
basis, except during holiday periods, Non-Executive Directors including the 10.
To ensure that the Board has available but may meet more frequently should Chairman.
Robert Miller-Bakewell was an appropriate and effective advisory circumstance require.
The Board agenda appointed as a Non-Executive Director team including brokers, financial gives significant focus to business on 4 May 2010.
The Executive Directors advisers, auditors, lawyers and financial performance and strategy.
Comprehensive are responsible for the day to day public relations professionals.
com Corporate Governance continued papers are circulated well in advance of Companies Act 2006.
These provisions Non-Executive Director, meet on an Board meetings.
These include general enable the Directors to authorise a annual basis to appraise the Chairmans updates and briefings on significant issues conflict, subject to such terms as they may performance.
The Executive Directors from the Chief Executive, the Finance think fit, which may include exclusion from have their performance individually Director, each of the Executive Directors voting in respect of the relevant issue and reviewed by the Chief Executive against and the Company Secretary.
At meetings exclusion from information and discussion annually set objectives.
The Chief oral reports are made on issues arising relating to the matter.
The procedure Executive has his performance reviewed from written reports: both these and approved by the Board for authorising by the Chairman and Senior Independent other matters of immediate importance conflicts reminds directors of the need to Non-Executive Director.
The Boards are discussed by the Board.
Presentations consider their duties as directors and not annual appraisal process incorporates on the operations of particular operating grant an authorisation unless they believe, a review of the performance of Noncompanies are made from time to in good faith, that this would be likely to Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary assists promote the success of the Company.
48 Directors receive an induction on the Chairman in ensuring that Board A potentially conflicted Director cannot appointment including considerable procedures are followed and advises on vote on an authorising resolution or be information on the Company as well as the matters of Corporate Governance.
The counted in a quorum for that purpose.
They also meet services of the Company Secretary are Any authority granted may be terminated other members of the Board to be briefed available to Directors generally.
at any time and the director is informed on strategy, financial matters and other of his obligation to inform the Company The Executive Directors meet formally key issues.
Advice is available from the without delay should there be any change at least once a month.
The Executive Companys solicitors if required.
During the in the nature of the conflict authorised.
Committee is responsible for all year updates are provided on key issues In addition, the Board requires the operational matters within the Group as required, including visits to operating Nomination Committee to check that any except in respect of any decision, or companies to meet local management.
individual it nominates to the Board is free group of decisions, which could not be of any potential conflict of interest.
Since Communication executed within the limit of funds available the time that these arrangements were The Company attaches great importance to the Group or which are likely to have a introduced no actual or potential conflicts to communication with its shareholders material effect upon the trading prospects of interest have arisen.
The full report of the Group.
The minutes of meetings The Company maintains Directors and are circulated to the Non-Executive and accounts is made available to Officers liability insurance with a current Directors for review.
all shareholders and to other parties limit of indemnity of 20m.
who have an interest in the Groups Operational matters do not include the performance on the Groups website.
There is an agreed procedure for setting of the Group Strategy or budgets In addition the Companys website Directors to take independent for the Group as a whole or raising of provides up-to-date information about professional advice and training at the equity or debt finance: these remain Companys expense.
its organisation, the services it offers matters for decision of the full Board and newsworthy subjects.
The Company along with anything which requires Board Performance shareholder consultation or approval, such also responds to numerous letters The Board undertakes an annual appraisal as results announcements, the Annual and enquiries from shareholders and of its performance.
Directors are asked Report or Circulars.
others with an interest in the Group.
to complete a detailed review relating to Where Directors have concerns which There is regular dialogue with individual the general operation of the Board and cannot be resolved regarding the institutional shareholders as well as its Committees as well as performance management of the Company or a presentations after the interim and against group strategy.
The results are proposed action, these concerns are annual results and at other events.
All discussed with the Chairman and a recorded in the Board minutes.
It is summary of the principal findings is shareholders have the opportunity to Company policy that if a Director resigns presented to and discussed by the Board.
ask questions at the Companys Annual any concerns expressed are provided, in Where appropriate the Board agrees General Meeting.
a written statement, to the Chairman for changes to process and structure that are circulation to the Board.
necessary to address the issues arising.
Shareholders have previously approved The Non-Executive Directors hold changes to the Companys Articles meetings with the Chairman without the of Association to allow Directors to Executives present at least twice a year.
authorise conflicts in accordance with the The Non-Executives, led by the Senior Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance Audit and internal controls Capital investment: The Company has 1 The respective responsibilities of the clearly defined guidelines for capital Directors and the independent auditors expenditure.
These include annual Alan Hearne in connection with the accounts are budgets, detailed appraisal and review 1 Fixed 34.4% 2 Variable 65.6% explained on pages 65-67 and the procedures, levels of authority and due 2 statement of the Directors in respect diligence requirements where businesses of going concern appears on page 65. are being acquired.
The Board has procedures in place Remuneration Report 1 as recommended in the guidance in The Committee comprises Karen The Combined Code on Corporate McPherson Chairman, John Bennett, and Peter Dowen Governance and Turnbull: Guidance on 1 Fixed 44.3% Roger Devlin all of whom were members 2 Variable 55.7% Internal Controls.
These have been in 49 throughout the year.
place for the whole year and up to the 2 The Chairman of the Company and Chief date of approval of the financial statements.
Executive have assisted the Remuneration The risk management policies are 1 Committee in their deliberations on other described on pages 31-35.
The Company The Board is responsible for the Groups Gary Young Secretary is in attendance at the meeting 1 Fixed 44.4% system of internal control which is designed to provide the Committee with any 2 Variable 55.6% to provide reasonable but not absolute additional advice that is required.
assurance against material misstatement 2 The frequency of, and attendance by or loss.
The Board reviews from time to members at, Remuneration Committee time the effectiveness of the system of 1 meetings is set out on page 43 of the internal control and risk management from report and accounts.
information provided by management Phil Williams and the Groups external auditors.
Such a The Remuneration Committee appointed 1 Fixed 44.2% 2 Variable 55.8% review was undertaken during 2010 the and received wholly independent outcome of which was satisfactory.
The advice on executive compensation from 2 key procedures that the Directors have  PwC.
established to provide effective internal Analysis of fixed versus performance financial controls are as follows: related pay for Executive Directors 2010 Financial reporting: A detailed formal Notes: budgeting process for all Group Fixed compensation comprises: businesses culminates in an annual Group Basic salary budget which is approved by the Board.
Pension Contribution The results for the Group are reported Benefits monthly against this budget to the Board.
Variable compensation comprises: Financial and accounting principles and Maximum contribution under the internal financial controls assurance: Bonus Plan Compliance with these is reviewed as requested.
Accounting policies and guidelines are issued to all accounting teams including those of acquired companies.
These set out the principles of and minimum standards required by the Board for effective financial control.
com Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee - Company, that failure is not rewarded The Bonus Plan replaced the annual Terms of Reference and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully bonus plan and LTIP for Executive recognised, in line with the statement of Directors for 2010.
Full details of the The terms of reference of the best practice in the ABI guidelines: Bonus Plan are set out below.
Remuneration Committee are as set out below: n to ensure that provisions regarding Remuneration policy disclosure of remuneration, including n the Committee has been delegated The Remuneration Committees policy for pensions, as set out in The Large & responsibility by the Board to 2010 was to set the main elements of the Medium-Sized Companies and Groups determine and agree with the Board remuneration package in order to reflect: Accounts and Reports Regulations the framework or broad policy 2008 and the UK Corporate n the performance of the individual for remuneration of the Executive Governance Code, are fulfilled: concerned: Directors and Senior Employees of the Company: the remuneration 50 n the performance of the business n to be aware of and advise on any of  is a unit s for which he she is responsible: major changes in employee benefit matter for the executive members structures throughout the Company n in the case of the Group directors, of the Board who, when necessary, or Group: the performance of the Group as a take advice from the independent whole: and n to be exclusively responsible for consultants.
No Director or manager establishing the selection criteria, is involved in any decisions as to their n the relevant market s for the selecting, appointing and setting own remuneration: executives and the terms and the terms of reference for any conditions prevailing in those markets.
n within the terms of the agreed policy, remuneration consultants who advise to determine the total individual The Committee recognises that the main the Committee: remuneration package of each competitors of the Group and, therefore, n to meet as required during the year: Executive Director including, where comparators for the remuneration are and appropriate, bonuses, benefits, and found outside the group of companies long term incentive allocations: that are listed.
In consequence, the n to report the frequency of, and Committee needs to reflect that in its attendance by members at, n the quorum necessary for the deliberations including RPS market leading Remuneration Committee meetings transaction of business is 2 members.
position in a number of those markets.
A duly convened meeting of the Committee at which a quorum The Committee is, in addition, mindful of Background is present shall be competent to trends and best practice amongst listed The Remuneration Committee indicated exercise all or any of the authorities, companies of a similar size in the Support in its 2008 Report that it was reviewing powers and discretions vested in or Services sector.
the operation of the Companys executive exercisable by the Committee: annual bonus arrangements and longThe policy is designed to attract, retain n to determine the policy for and scope term incentives upon the expiry of the and motivate individuals by providing the of pension arrangements for each shareholder approval for the RPS Group opportunity to earn competitive levels Executive Director: Plc Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP of compensation provided performance in the context of its whole remuneration is delivered, whilst remaining within the n to determine targets for any policy in line with best practice.
range of compensation offered by performance related pay and share similar companies.
schemes operated by the Company: The Remuneration Committee started the Directors remuneration is the subject consultation process in November 2009 n in determining such packages and of annual review in accordance with with its major shareholders on a new arrangements, give due regard to the this policy.
Additionally, it focuses on incentive plan, the RPS Group Plc Bonus comments and recommendations of the contribution to the continued long Plan the Bonus Plan.
This exercise was the Combined Code as well as the term growth and success of the Company completed in the first quarter of 2010.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services and seeks to align Director interests Feedback was sought from and provided Authority and associated guidance: with those of the Company, employees by shareholders and as a result of this the n to ensure that contractual terms on and shareholders.
final design and operation of the Bonus termination, and any payments made, Plan was amended and broad shareholder are fair to the individual and the support confirmed.
Report and Accounts 2010 Management & Governance The charts on page 49 demonstrate the The companies comprising the comparator robust in its determinations in light of the proportion of the maximum potential group used in the last review were position of the Company as a whole.
compensation which is performance as follows: Taking account all of the above factors related for each Executive Director.
Aggreko Plc the Executive Directors were all awarded Alfred McAlpine Plc a basic salary increase of 2.5% as at Base salary Amec Plc 1 January 2010.
Interserve PLC will be no Company contribution: The results of this exercise are then Intertek Group PLC John Menzies Plc n there is a risk adjustment mechanism benchmarked against an independently Lavendon Group Plc built in to the operation of the Plan established group of listed companies.
Michael Page International Plc with a claw back of contributions if This group is identified independently Mitie Group the threshold profit is not met for any by PwC.
Mouchel Group PLC financial year during the Plan period: PayPoint PLC The basis of selection of the group is: n the Plan allows the Remuneration Premier Farnell PLC n companies within the same sector as Committee to align performance Regus PLC the Company: and conditions to the budget and Scott Wilson Group Plc Serco Group Plc performance of the Company for n companies with a range of market Shanks Group Plc each financial year: capitalisations such that the SIG PLC n the operation of the Plan is simple Company sits within the middle of Speedy Hire PLC and transparent to participants, the the comparator group.
This group is SThree PLC Company and shareholders: reviewed on an annual basis.. Travis Perkins PLC White Young Green PLC n the Plan has a potential retentive WSP Group PLC effect as participants can see the potential benefits accruing over the plan period: The Committee has access to information on the pay and conditions n there is an alignment of Executive of other employees in the Group Directors interests with shareholders: when determining the remuneration n shareholders receive a minimum packages for Executive Directors.
The level of profit prior to any Remuneration Committee actively incentive payments to Executive considers the relationship between Directors: general changes to employees pay and conditions and any proposed changes in n Executive Directors are the remuneration packages for Executive encouraged to pursue Directors to ensure it can be sufficiently consistent levels of profit and rpsgroup.
com Corporate Governance continued n there is a long term alignment n the contribution to the Plan will be available was not increased by the with the interests of shareholders calculated on the following basis: implementation of the new Plan: as the deferred element of the n the Remuneration Committee n the value of deferred contributions in Plan is in the form of equity.
will set the threshold profit at the to a participants plan account will be beginning of each financial year.
Only held in shares: Summary of the Main Features in exceptional circumstances will the of the Bonus Plan n participants will be entitled to the Committee amend the threshold The Bonus Plan is based on a percentage release of bonus units with an aggregate profit once it has been set: of the profits earned during a three year bonus unit price equal to 50% of the period which is used to create a bonus n up to 3% of the total profit for the balance of their Plan accounts at the pool.
50% of the bonus pool is paid out in financial year will be contributed to end of each financial year, with the final year 1, 50% of the cumulative balance of the Bonus Plan for the Executive balance of the Plan account paid at the 52 the bonus pool is paid out in year 2 and Directors.
This is subject to an end of the third year.
the cumulative balance after payments individual cap as a percentage of Details of Bonus Plan Operation in years 1 and 2 and contribution to the salary provided that the threshold for 2010 pool in respect of year 3 is paid out as a profit is met or exceeded.
The larger final payment at the end of year 3.
This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Committee considers following information in respect of the the 3% maximum contribution to The key features of the Bonus Plan are: 2010 operation of the Bonus Plan: be appropriate based on the historic n at the beginning of the plan period incentives costs of the Executive n the maximum contribution set for participants will have a plan account Directors of the Company and their each Executive Director: to which bonus units will be allocated.
counterparts in the other constituents These bonus units will only have value n the profit thresholds and contribution of the Support Services Sector: if the Company makes a contribution percentages set for the 2010 financial n where the actual profit for the to the Plan.
On the basis that the year: financial year is less than the threshold threshold profit is exceeded and a n the actual contribution made to the profit, 15% of the difference will be contribution is made into the Plan Bonus Plan in respect of the 2010 deducted from the value of funds held a number of the bonus units will be financial year: and in the Plan provided that the value eligible for release each year.
The cannot be less than zero: Remuneration Committee will in its n the corresponding plan account discretion when determining how payments and balances for participants.
n there is a maximum contribution that many eligible bonus units to release can be made to a participants plan Maximum Contribution 2010 and therefore the level of annual account in respect of any financial Maximum Contribution payment received by the participant year see below.
The Remuneration under the Plan Maximum Contribution Name %age Salary for 2010 take into account individual and wider Committee determined these limits Alan Hearne 200% 200% Company and divisional financial based on the aggregate of the historic Gary Young 150% 150% and non financial performance: level of LTIP award and bonus Phil Williams 150% 150% including the Companys sustainability, potential set by the Committee.
The Peter Dowen 150% 150% environmental and corporate Committee was keen to ensure that governance record: the total incentive compensation Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance Profit & Contribution Thresholds for 2010 Level Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 PBTA Threshold 45m 45m 52.5m this figure is net of all bonus costs including the bonus costs under the Plan for this Financial year Bonus Plan Contribution Percentage 1% 3% Bonus Plan Deduction Percentage 15% Actual PBTA for 2010 48m Total Plan Contribution 874,000 Straight line between points.
Participant Plan Accounts The following table sets out the details of the Plan Accounts for the Executive Directors: 53 Plan Account Details Alan Hearne Gary Young Phil Williams Opening Balance 2010 Plan Contribution 372,813 141,579 198,206 2010 Plan Deduction Balance 2010 Payment 186,407 70,790 99,103 Closing Balance 186,406 70,789 99,103 Value to be deferred in Shares 186,406 70,789 99,103 Peter Dowen will, as announced, be leaving the Company in September 2011 and will not, therefore, be participating in the Plan.
The Bonus Plan will be operated for 2011 with the same main parameters.
However, the Remuneration Committee will set the appropriate thresholds and contribution levels for 2011 taking into account the circumstances of the Company and market generally.
Long-term Incentives Shareholder approval has lapsed for the LTIP and therefore no further grants will be made under this Plan: as indicated above the LTIP and former annual bonus plan have been replaced by the Bonus Plan.
The following table and paragraphs summarise the operation of the Companys LTIP: 2007 Grant 2008 Grant 2009 Grant % of Salary % of Salary % of Salary Executive Condition Condition Condition Maximum Annual Grant 100 100 100 Chief Executive 100 100 100 Finance Director 80 80 80 Executive Directors 80 60-80 60-80 Performance Condition EPS Growth EPS Growth EPS Growth see table below see table below see table below Status Released in full Based on current Release Date on 14 March performance it is 31 March 2012 2010 as the EPS anticipated that performance the grant will condition was lapse on satisfied see 8 April 2011 table below rpsgroup.
com Corporate Governance continued 100% of the shares subject to the 2007 is no realistic prospect that the 2009 grant The Executive Directors also receive the grant were released on 14 March 2010. under the LTIP will result in any release following additional benefits: The following table sets out the number in March 2012.
As a result a charge of n healthcare: of shares released to the Executive 214,000 made previously has also been n life assurance and dependents Directors: released into the 2010 profit and loss pensions: account.
There are no other outstanding Name Number of ordinary shares awards under the LTIP and in consequence n disability schemes: and Alan Hearne 124,893 the LTIP is in practical terms closed.
n company car or car allowance.
Gary Young 49,272 Full details of the Directors LTIP awards Phil Williams 60,222 Shareholding Guideline are set out on page 64.
Peter Dowen 60,222 Shareholdings across the Executive In years prior to the introduction of the Directors and Senior Executives are not 54 LTIP in 2004 the Company operated The market price of shares on release was uniform.
Therefore, four years ago the an Executive Share Option Plan.
Remuneration Committee introduced outstanding options under this plan are shareholding guidelines to encourage longset out on page 63.
All performance The performance conditions attached to term share ownership by the Executives.
conditions under this Plan were met the release of LTIP shares related to EPS The guidelines encourage Executive details of which have been set out in growth are as follows: Directors to build up and retain a holding previous reports of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee % Average Basic EPS % of LTIP options were issued at a discount under Growth p. a. above RPI Award Released believes this forms a stable incentive pay this plan.
3 12.5 platform on which to build a responsible 4 25 Benefits relationship between shareholders, the 5 37.5 Executives and the Company.
The Executive Directors participate in 6 50 a Company money purchase defined It is intended that the Executives will 7 62.5 contribution scheme for which the be able to build up their shareholding 8 75 Employer contribution is 15%.
In 2006 the by their participation in the Companys 9 87.5 Remuneration Committee agreed to pay incentive plans.
10 100 a one-off pension contribution in respect Straight line release applies between these points.
of Alan Hearne representing six years of Recommended shareholding The Remuneration Committee will Name requirement as percentage of salary annual contributions.
No further pension determine the satisfaction of the Alan Hearne 150% contributions are therefore being paid performance conditions in respect of Gary Young 100% in respect of Alan Hearne during Phil Williams 100% both the LTIP.
The EPS figure used by that period.
Peter Dowen 100% the Company will be audited basic EPS Executive Directors can also participate figure disclosed in the Companys in the all-employee Inland Revenue Financial Statements.
The SIP gives The performance condition comparing employees the opportunity to purchase increases in earnings per share against up to 1,500 of shares a year with inflation was chosen in order to ensure the Company providing one additional that LTIP awards and options would matching share for every employee only be received against a background purchased share.
Total participation in the of sustained real increase in the financial SIP scheme across the group is 30% of performance of the Company.
Committee has determined that there will be no release of the 2008 grant made in 2011.
A charge of 495,000 made previously was, therefore, released into the 2010 profit and loss account.
In addition the Committee has determined that there Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance Service contracts All of the Companys Executive Directors The fees paid to the Chairman and each have service contracts with the Company Non-Executive Director are detailed on The Companys policy on the duration of as detailed below.
service contracts is that: Notice Period Details of the terms of appointment of Name Date of Contract months n Executive Directors should have the serving Non-Executive Directors are rolling service contracts terminable Alan Hearne February 1997 12 set out in the table below: on no more than one years notice Peter Dowen February1997 12 Unexpired term served by the Company or the Phil Williams November 2005 12 of contract as at 31 Dec Director: and Gary Young September 2000 12 Name Initial Contract date 2010 months n Non-Executive Directors are The only event on the occurrence of Brook Land September 1997 Annual appointed for fixed terms of three which the Company is liable to make Review years, renewable on agreement of a payment to any of the Executive Roger Devlin April 2002 4 both the Company and the Director.
Directors is cessation of employment.
Karen McPherson June 2005 5 With effect from the Companys annual John Bennett June 2006 17 The policy on termination payments 55 general meeting in 2011 all directors will Louise Charlton May 2008 5 is that the Company does not make Robert Miller-Bakewell May 2010 29 be required to seek re-election on an payments beyond its contractual annual basis.
obligations, including any payment in Non-Executive Directors are not entitled respect of notice to which a Director Non-Executive Directors to participate in the pension plan or the is entitled after mitigation is considered.
The fees paid to the Non-Executive performance based pay schemes including None of the Directors contracts provide Directors are determined by the Board annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms for automatic payments in excess of one and aim to be competitive with other fully and conditions of appointment of Nonyear or for extended notice periods or listed companies of equivalent size and Executive Directors are available for compensation in the event of a change of complexity.
The Chairman of the Company inspection by any person at the Companys control.
None of the Directors contracts receives a higher fee than the other registered office and at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director receive an additional payment.
Performance Graph Total shareholder return from 1st January 2006 The graph shows a comparison of the total shareholder return from the 240 Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total 220 shareholder return for the companies 200 comprising the FTSE All Share, the FTSE 180 All Share Support Services sector and the comparator group.
The Remuneration 160 Committee has selected these 140 benchmarks as they provide a good indication of the Companys general 120 performance.
100 80 60 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 RPS Group - T ot Return Ind FTSE All Share - T ot Return Ind FTSE All Share Support SVST ot Return Ind rpsgroup.
In addition Employers National Insurance Contribution paid in respect of these emoluments were 196,000 2009: 170,000.
Remuneration for Mr Troup in 2009 is that covered up to his resignation from the Board on 5 November 2009.
Robert Miller-Bakewell joined the board on 4 May 2010.
Pensions Directors emoluments and compensation The Executive Directors of the Company earned pensions benefits in a company The following disclosures on Directors money purchase defined contribution remuneration and share incentives have scheme apart from Phil Williams whose been audited as required by Part 3 of pension benefits are in a Group Personal Schedule 8 of the Large and MediumPension plan defined contribution during sized Companies and Groups Accounts the year.
The table above sets out details of the emoluments An Ordinary Resolution to approve this and compensation received during the report will be proposed at the Companys year by each Director.
Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2011.
Share awards This report was approved by the Board The tables on pages 63 and 64 set on 2 March 2011. out details of the audited share options and LTIPs held by each Director during the year.
Signed on behalf of the Board Karen McPherson The Company operates its share schemes Chairman of the Remuneration within the dilution limits specified by the Committee 2 March 2011 ABI.
Report and Accounts 2010 Management Management & & Governance Governance n valuation services Audit Committee - Audit Committee Terms of Reference The Audit Committee comprises three n investment advisory, broker and Independent Non-Executive Directors: dealing services Committee composition, capabilities John Bennett, Roger Devlin and Robert and meetings n general management services Miller-Bakewell.
It has written terms of The Committee shall comprise at least Certain other services are approved up to reference set out as below.
Although the two Independent Non-Executive Directors agreed financial limits with the provision of Board considers that all current members with a quorum of two, appointed by the such services beyond those limits requiring of the Committee have experience which Board, all of whom possess an adequate approval of the Committee.
The following is relevant to the role, John Bennett, who understanding of the financial management fall within this category: is a Chartered Accountant, is the member and reporting requirements of publicly of the Committee specifically identified n taxation services quoted companies.
as having recent and relevant financial n transaction support including 57 experience.
The Committee reviews The Board will appoint a suitably qualified due diligence the draft financial statements prior to Director other than the Chairman to chair submission to the Board and monitors and n advice relating to risk management the Committee.
The Company Secretary is makes recommendations to the Board and controls secretary to the Committee.
regarding the Groups accounting policies n accountancy advice and training The Committee shall meet at least twice and considers significant matters relating per annum and may invite to attend: the The provision of any service at any to internal control procedures.
During Chief Executive and the Finance Director, level that does not fall within the above the year the Committee assisted the representatives of the external auditors categories requires the approval of the Board in conducting the review of internal and anyone else who may assist the Committee.
The Audit Committee from time to time.
Committee has considered the need for The split between audit and non-audit an internal audit function but considers fees for the year under review appears on Relationship between the Committee and that at present the financial controls page 80. the Board operating throughout the Group and the The Company has in place formal The RPS Group Plc Board: reviews undertaken by the Group Finance procedures which allow staff of the n reviews and agrees terms of reference function are adequate without a separate Company to, in confidence, raise concerns put forward by the Audit Committee: internal audit function.
about possible improprieties in matters of n considers changes to the terms of The Audit Committee keeps the scope financial reporting and other issues.
These reference when recommended by and cost effectiveness of the external procedures are reviewed by the Audit the Committee: audit under review.
The independence Committee and are as follows: and effectiveness of the external auditor is n receives prompt summary reports n any employee wishing to raise a reviewed annually and audit partners are after each meeting of the Committee: concern regarding internal controls, rotated every five years.
The possibility accounting or audit matters may do n is advised of matters for its attention of undertaking an audit tender process is so with the Senior Non-Executive at other times as deemed necessary by considered on a regular basis.
As part of Director, Roger Devlin, or the the Committee: its responsibility to ensure independence Company Secretary, Nicholas Rowe: n will refer matters to the Committee and objectivity the committee has n any concerns raised will be treated in for its attention as necessary: adopted a policy to determine the confidence, and will be investigated circumstances in which Auditors may be n reviews annually the Committees and any action proposed reported to permitted to undertake non-audit work policies, practices and performance: the Audit Committee: and for the Group.
Under the terms of this and policy the provision of certain services are n the person raising the concern need n ensures that funds are available to the prohibited and include those listed below: not disclose their identity.
If their Committee for external advice when identity is disclosed this will not be n bookkeeping services needed, which shall be obtained via an passed on by the person receiving Executive Director.
n preparation of financial statements the complaint without the individuals n design and implementation of consent.
com Corporate Governance continued Committee authority Risk management required.
The Committee acknowledges that diversity, including gender, is an important The Committee shall have the authority Internal controls consideration in addressing these issues and to consider any matters relating to the The Committee shall review the means by takes account of this in its planning.
The financial affairs of the Group.
which sound systems of internal control pursuit of diversity does, however, create The Committee shall have the authority are maintained across the Group and shall other issues.
By way of example two of to request relevant information from review reports on the effectiveness of the Non-Executive Directors, who provide any employee and employees shall be those systems.
valuable advice to the Board in other areas expected to respond accordingly.
do not feel qualified to sit on the Audit Internal audit Committee.
The Committee may take external The Committee shall review at least professional advice with respect to its When Directors are appointed to the annually the internal audit function responsibilities and duties.
and will make appropriate Board, this is through a formal, rigorous and 58 transparent process.
Robert Miller-Bakewell The Committee shall have no executive recommendations to the Board.
was appointed as a Non-Executive Director responsibilities with respect to Other risk management systems on 4 May 2010.
This followed a careful implementation of its recommendations.
The Committee shall consider the evaluation of the skills currently available at Committee responsibilities and duties adequacy of other systems which help to Board level and how these could best be manage the Groups exposures to damage enhanced and balanced.
Previously Financial matters or loss.
Mr. Miller-Bakewell had worked as an The Committee shall review accounting investment analyst working within the policies and practices used by the Group, Nomination Committee Companys sector.
After a number of as well as information to be published to The Committee meets as required, but not detailed and rigorous interviews, the the London Stock Exchange prior to its less than once a year, and comprises the Committee concluded that his skills and submission to the Board.
Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and experience offered a strong match with two Independent Non-Executive Directors The Committee shall ensure that the Companys requirements.
Mr. MillerLouise Charlton and Karen McPherson.
The the information presented by the Bakewell was only then appointed following Company Secretary attends all meetings.
Its Group supports a balanced, clear and a meeting with all other Directors and final responsibilities include reviewing the Board understandable view of its financial consideration of the appointment by the structure, size and composition, nominating position and prospects.
candidates to the Board when vacancies External audit The Nomination Committees written terms arise and recommending Directors who are of reference are set out below: The Committee shall make retiring to be put forward for re-election.
recommendations to the Board The Committee believes that the Board as Membership with respect to the appointment currently constituted provides an appropriate The Committee shall be appointed by the of external auditors and will take range and balance of skills and experience.
Board and shall comprise a Chairman and at steps necessary to satisfy itself about the The Executive Directors have many years least two other members.
continuing independence of relevant firms.
experience with the Company and of their specific roles.
The Non-Executive Directors, A majority of members of the Committee The Committee shall review the level of as their biographies indicate, have skills shall be Independent Non-Executive external audit fees.
ranging across finance, law, investment Directors.
The Committee shall review the scope analysis, human resources and corporate The Board appoints the Committee of, approach to and findings from external communication.
In the absence of the Committee audit work.
keeps Board succession planning and the Chairman and or an appointed deputy, the The Committee shall discuss with the need to retain Board balance under careful remaining members present shall elect one external auditors any proposed changes in review.
Succession plans deal specifically of their number to chair the meeting.
with each of the roles undertaken by If a regular member is unable to act due the Executive Directors whilst taking into The Committee Chairman will liaise to absence, illness or any other cause, the account the developing needs of the directly with the external auditors in order Chairman of the Committee may appoint business.
Account is also taken of the need to ensure a full understanding of any another Director of the Company to serve to periodically refresh the Non-executive issues that arise from their work and will as an alternate member having due regard to compliment and ensure that they continue report to the Committee accordingly.
maintaining the required balance of Executive to provide the range and balance of skills and Independent Non-Executive members.
Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2010 2010 Management & Governance Care should be taken to minimise the risk of attend the Annual General Meeting p ost, taking into account the needs of any conflict of interest that might be seen to prepared to respond to any shareholder continuity versus freshness of approach: give rise to an unacceptable influence.
questions on the Committees activities.
n as regards the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the The terms and conditions of appointment Secretary of Non-Executive Directors should be conclusion of his or her specified term The Company Secretary acts as the made available for inspection by any of office: especially when they have Secretary of the Committee and attend person at the Companys registered office concluded their second term: all meetings.
n for the continuation or not in service of any Director who has reached the Quorum Duties age of 70: The quorum necessary for the transaction The Committee shall: n concerning the re-election by of business is two.
A duly convened n regularly review the structure, size and 59 shareholders of any Director under the meeting of the Committee at which a composition of the Board and make retirement by rotation provisions in quorum is present shall be competent recommendations to the Board with the Companys articles of association: to exercise all or any of the authorities, regard to any adjustments that are powers and discretions vested in or n concerning any matters relating to the deemed necessary: exercisable by the Committee.
continuation in office as a Director of n prepare a description of the role and any Director at any time: and Frequency of meetings capabilities required for a particular n concerning the appointment of appointment: The Committee shall meet not less than any Director to Executive or other once a year and at such other times n be responsible for identifying and office other than to the positions of as the Board or any member of the nominating for the approval of Chairman and Chief Executive, the Committee requires.
the Board candidates to fill Board recommendation for which would be vacancies as and when they arise: considered at a meeting of: Notice of meetings n satisfy itself with regard to succession n all the Non-Executive Directors Meetings of the Committee shall be planning, that the processes and plans regarding the position of Chief summoned by the Secretary of the are in place with regard to the Board Executive: Committee at the request of the Chairman and senior appointments: of the Committee.
n all the Directors regarding the n assess and articulate the time needed position of Chairman: and Unless otherwise agreed, notice of each to fulfil the role of Chairman, Senior meeting confirming the venue, time and n detailing items that should be Independent Director and Nondate together with an agenda of items to published in the Companys Annual Executive Director, and undertake be discussed, shall be forwarded to each Report relating to the activities of an annual performance evaluation member of the Committee no fewer than the Committee.
to ensure that all members of the five working days prior to the date of the Board have devoted sufficient time Authority meeting.
As far as practical meetings shall to their duties: be held immediately before or after The Committee is authorised to seek any n ensure on appointment that a meetings of the Main Board.
information it requires from any employee candidate has sufficient time to of the Company in order to perform Minutes of meetings undertake the role and review his its duties.
commitments: and The Secretary shall minute the The Committee is authorised to obtain, at proceedings and resolutions of all n ensure that the Secretary on behalf the Companys expense, outside legal or Committee meetings, including the names of the Board has formally written to other professional advice on any matters of those present and in attendance.
any appointees, detailing the role and within its terms of reference.
time commitments and proposing an Minutes of Committee meetings shall induction plan produced in conjunction be circulated to all members of the Takeover Directive with the Chairman.
Committee and to the Chairman of the Disclosures required under the Takeover Board and made available on request to It shall also make recommendations to Directive are included on page 66 and other members of the Board.
form part of the Groups Corporate the Board: Governance report.
n with regard to the Chairman having Annual General Meeting assessed every three years whether the The Chairman of the Committee shall present incumbent shall continue in rpsgroup.
com 60 Report Report and and Accounts Accounts 2010 2010
