Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 51 Corporate governance 1.
The directors report on corporate governance 3.
Board of directors: composition, The global financial crisis brought an increased focus on directors independence and renewal governance responsibilities, leading the UK Government to commission a review of governance in financial institutions and caused the Financial 3.1 Composition Reporting Council FRC to bring forward a review of the Combined The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : nine Code of Corporate Governance the Combined Code, which contains independent non-executive directors including Lord Fellowes, the the principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the Senior Independent Director, and Mr Manser, who will take on the London Stock Exchange.
role of Senior Independent Director following the 2010 annual general meeting at which Lord Fellowes will retire : five non-executive directors SABMiller participated in both those reviews and in submissions made who are not considered to be independent, and two executive directors to the FRC expressed the directors belief that the Combined Code Mr Mackay, the Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the Chief Financial reflected good and responsible governance and was working well.
Biographical information concerning each of the directors is However, the board reiterated the fundamental and underlying point set out on pages 44 and 45. that there seems to be an unrealistic expectation that more governance will guarantee success or, perhaps more pertinently, guarantee no The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board and of failure.
The global financial crisis has presented an important opportunity the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance to review how robust corporate governance processes are, and to committees are determined primarily by the terms of our relationship learn what might have been done differently.
However, every business agreements with Altria and with BevCo Ltd BevCo, a holding company has to manage risk, and judgements about risk must be taken by of the Santo Domingo Group, both of which have been approved by executives as part of the management by them of the business.
If the shareholders of SABMiller.
there were governance weaknesses that contributed to the current The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of crisis, the board believes it was in the application of the Code, rather 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, than a lack of prescription within the Code itself.
Adding extra governance up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up requirements is likely to lead to more box ticking and hamper effective to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and scrutiny by non-executive directors by occupying time with form up to eight are to be non-executive directors appointed by the board.
rather than looking at substance.
Key to the effectiveness of corporate Since 2004, in order to assist the company to apply the provision governance is the calibre of the individuals involved, and their clear of the Combined Code that at least half the directors excluding the understanding of their roles and responsibilities and the tools necessary Chairman should be independent non-executive directors, Altria to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
has only nominated two directors for appointment to the board SABMillers specific submissions to the FRC were directed at reinforcing and, more recently, has permitted the maximum number of directors what the directors believe is, and should be, the philosophy behind allowed under the relationship agreement to be exceeded.
As neither the FRCs approach to the Code, which is that prescription should be of the Altria nominees at the start of the year Mr Bible and Mr Devitre avoided, and that companies should have the flexibility to design their were members of Altrias executive management, and noting that the own governance processes in the light of their own circumstances appointment of a third Altria nominee would not impact upon SABMillers and their view of the interests of their shareholders as a whole, and ability to apply that provision of the Combined Code, Altria, during the not to satisfy governance scorecards.
year, nominated a third director, Mr Howard Willard, for appointment to the board.
Mr Willard is an executive officer of Altria and was appointed The directors remain committed to maintaining high standards of to the board with effect from 1 August 2009.
The agreement with corporate governance, which they see as fundamental to discharging BevCo remains unchanged: it allows BevCo to nominate up to two their stewardship responsibilities.
The board strives to provide the right non-executive directors for appointment to the board.
leadership, strategic oversight and control environment to produce and sustain the delivery of value to all of the companys shareholders.
The The board is grateful to Altria for its continued indulgence in permitting board applies integrity, principles of good governance and accountability for the time being the maximum number of directors allowed under the throughout its activities and each director brings independence of relationship agreement to be exceeded.
Altria and BevCo have each character and judgement to the role.
All of the members of the board exercised their right under their respective agreements to nominate are individually and collectively aware of their responsibilities to the one director for appointment to the nomination committee.
Both Altria companys stakeholders and the board keeps its performance and and BevCo have the right to nominate directors for appointment to core governance principles under regular review.
the corporate accountability and risk assurance committee CARAC Altria has exercised this right, BevCo has not, and, as noted above, This report describes the boards approach to corporate governance Altria has the right to nominate one director for appointment to the and explains how it applies the principles of the Combined Code on audit committee which it has exercised.
Corporate Governance adopted by the FRC in June 2008.
3.2 Independence and attendance at meetings 2.
Application of the Combined Code The board considers nine directors Mr Armour, Ms Doherty, Lord The board applied all of the principles and provisions of the Combined Fellowes, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo, Mr Pieterse Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2010, except for one, which and Mr Ramaphosa to be independent for the purposes of the is that the audit committee did not consist solely of independent Combined Code.
The board considers five non-executive directors directors.
The committee included Mr Devitre, an Altria Group, Inc. not to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: Mr Altria nominee, who is not independent for the purposes of the Bible, Mr Devitre and Mr Willard, as they are nominees of Altria, the Combined Code.
This is because the composition of the audit companys largest shareholder: and Mr Santo Domingo and Mr Prez, committee is governed by our relationship agreement with Altria, as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, the companys which was originally approved by shareholders in 2002 as part of the second largest shareholder.
The Combined Code states that the test of Miller transaction, and was amended in 2005, again with shareholder independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman, Mr Kahn, approval, at the time of the Bavaria transaction, and under which who is a former chief executive of the company.
Altria has the right to nominate a director to the audit committee.
For ease of reference, directors independence status for Combined The board considers that the composition of the audit committee Code purposes is indicated in the table on page 52. remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the companys largest shareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard to the terms of the relationship agreement between the company and Altria, and the experience and background in financial matters of Mr Devitre, the independence and effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging its functions in terms of the Combined Code continue to be considerably enhanced and not compromised.
52 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued 3.3 Progressive renewal of the board and committee deliberations.
Therefore, the board is entirely satisfied as to the performance and continued independence of judgement of The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains each of these directors.
appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all of its directors, and the experience and skills which Under the Combined Code, it is recommended that directors who have they bring to their duties.
served for more than nine years should stand for annual re-election and accordingly the Chairman, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa It is now 11 years since the company listed on the London Stock will offer themselves for re-election for a term of one year.
SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services of several distinguished non-executive directors the Chairman, Lord The board does not consider it to be in the interests of the company or Fellowes, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa for all or most shareholders to require all directors who have served for nine years or of that period.
They have provided considerable stability to the board longer to retire at the same time and, as reported in our last corporate and the board has benefited greatly from the presence of individuals governance report, strongly favours ensuring continuity and stability who have over time gained valuable insight into the group, its markets through orderly succession.
It is with great sadness that we have announced that While recognising the benefits of the experience and stability brought Lord Fellowes, who has diligently served the board since the company by its long-standing directors, the board remains committed to the listed in London in 1999, will be retiring from the board in July 2010 progressive renewal of board membership, having acted during the after 11 years of distinguished service.
year under review to bring about the appointment of Dr Moyo and, The provisions of the Combined Code require the board to consider, since the year end, the appointment of Mr Armour.
where a director has served for a period of nine years or more, whether The board considers there is an appropriate balance of skills, collective that director continues to be independent.
In respect of each of the experience, independence and knowledge among the non-executive three independent directors who have served the board for more than directors.
nine years and are offering themselves for re-election Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa, the board has considered specifically whether their length of service has compromised their independence.
How the board operates In each case the board has determined that the director concerned remains independent of character and judgement and that there are 4.1 Board meetings and attendance no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could During the year there were six board meetings.
Individual directors appear to affect, the directors judgement, and that the independence attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual general of character and judgement of each of the directors concerned is not meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances where a in any way affected or impaired by length of service.
The board has director has not been able to attend a board or committee meeting, also conducted a rigorous review of the performance of the Chairman, any comments which they have had arising out of the papers to be Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa and considers that each considered at that meeting have been relayed in advance to the of these directors brings invaluable integrity, wisdom and experience relevant chairman.
to the board and that they continue to contribute positively to board Directors attendance 1 April 2009 to 31 March 2010 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible AGM J M Kahn N A 56 2222 E A G Mackay N A 6 6 2 2 M I Wyman N A 6 6 2 2 G C Bible 66 22 D S Devitre 6644 M E Doherty 6644 Lord Fellowes 6644452222 P J Manser 5644552222 J A Manzoni 56 45 12 M Q Morland 66445522 D F Moyo 44 11 C A Prez Dvila 66 R Pieterse 66 22 M C Ramaphosa 66 2212 A Santo Domingo Dvila 66 22 H A Willard 33 11 n a Considered to be independent for Combined Code purposes.
Mr Kahn was unable to travel from South Africa to the UK for the board meeting held in April 2009 as he was recuperating following a minor operation.
Mr Manser was unable to attend the board meeting held in April 2009 because of a long-standing prior commitment.
In March 2010 the company held meetings of the board and key committees in South Africa, which had originally been scheduled for February 2010.
As a result of the rescheduling: Mr Manzoni was unable to attend the board, remuneration committee and CARAC meetings as they clashed with a Talisman Energy board meeting in Canada: and Mr Ramaphosa was unable to attend the CARAC meeting as a result of a clash with a long-standing prior engagement.
In consequence of the triennial review of the structure of the groups remuneration policies, an additional meeting of the remuneration committee was called in March 2010.
Lord Fellowes was unable to attend this meeting due to a prior commitment.
Mr Armour is not included in the table as he joined the board with effect from 1 May 2010.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 53 4.2 Operation of the board Following the appointment of new directors to the board, directors are briefed on the duties they owe as directors to the company and tailored The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines induction programmes are arranged which involve industry-specific investment policies, agrees on performance criteria and delegates training and include visits to the groups businesses and meetings with to management the detailed planning and implementation of those senior management, as appropriate.
New directors are briefed on internal objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate risk parameters.
controls at business unit level and are advised of the legal and other The board monitors compliance with policies and achievement against duties they have as directors of a listed company as well as on relevant objectives by holding management accountable for its activities through company policies and governance-related matters.
The company monthly and quarterly performance reporting and budget updates.
In arranges for major shareholders to have the opportunity to meet new addition, the board receives regular presentations, on a rotational basis, appointees.
The company is also committed to the continuing development from the divisional managing directors as well as from directors of of directors in order that they may build on their expertise and develop key group functions marketing: corporate affairs: supply chain and an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets human resources: and legal enabling it to explore specific issues and in which group companies operate.
Members of board committees developments in greater detail.
are encouraged to attend internal and external briefings and courses Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of intellectual on aspects of their respective committee specialities and regular updates honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, requiring reporting of on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and technical the highest standard by management and direct, robust and constructive developments are presented to committee members and, as appropriate, challenge and debate among board and committee members.
4.3 Matters reserved for the board 4.7 Outside appointments There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively by the Non-executive directors may serve on a number of outside boards board.
These include approval of financial statements: the groups provided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: major capital to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller.
The nomination projects: major changes to the groups management and control structure: committee keeps the extent of directors other interests under review material investments or disposals: risk management strategy: social to ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not compromised.
The and environmental policy: and treasury policies.
board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors commit sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties as The board governs through clearly mandated board committees, Chairman and directors of the company, respectively.
accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each standing board committee has specific written terms of reference issued by the The board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors board and adopted in committee.
The terms of reference of the audit, and members of the executive committee accepting non-executive remuneration and nomination committees are available on the companys directorships of other companies in order to widen their experience website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
All committee and knowledge for the benefit of the company.
Accordingly, executive chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their committees at the directors and members of the executive committee are permitted to next meeting of the board, and the minutes of the meetings of all board accept external non-executive board appointments, subject to the committees are included in the papers distributed to board members agreement of the board, and are allowed to retain any fees received in advance of the next board meeting.
Mr Mackay is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 4.4 Conflicts of interest and is the Senior Independent Director and a member of the remuneration The directors are required to avoid a situation where they have, or committee of that company.
He is also a member of the board of can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may Philip Morris International Inc. and serves on three of its committees: conflict, with the companys interests.
As permitted by the Companies compensation and leadership development, finance, and product Act 2006, the articles of association of the company allow the board innovation and regulatory affairs.
The board remains entirely satisfied to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose that these duties do not impinge on Mr Mackays commitment and such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Procedures are in place for the ability to discharge fully his duties to the company, and that his service disclosure by directors of any such conflicts and for the appropriate on the boards of two global consumer product companies, which authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises.
These procedures have operate in many of the developed and emerging markets in which the been operating effectively.
company also has businesses, continues to give Mr Mackay valuable additional insights and knowledge which enhance his ability to fulfil his 4.5 The roles of executive and non-executive directors duties as Chief Executive of the company.
The executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and for During the year, after consultation with the Chairman and the Chief making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-executive directors Executive and with the agreement of the board, Mr Wyman accepted complement the skills and experience of the executive directors, bring appointment as a non-executive director of Nedbank Group Limited, a independent judgement and contribute to the formulation of strategy, company whose shares are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, policy and decision-making through their knowledge and experience and of its subsidiary Nedbank Limited.
He is a member of the audit of other businesses and sectors.
and remuneration committees of Nedbank Group Limited.
The board is satisfied that Mr Wymans position with Nedbank, a major South African 4.6 Information and training financial institution, is complementary to his role as Chief Financial Officer The board and its committees are supplied with full and timely information, and widens his experience and knowledge to the benefit of the company.
including detailed financial information, to enable directors to discharge Fees earned by Mr Mackay and Mr Wyman from their appointments their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the advice of the are set out in the remuneration report on page 64.
Independent professional advice is also available to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the companys expense, 4.8 Chairman, Chief Executive and and the committees have been provided with sufficient resources to Senior Independent Director undertake their duties.
None of the directors has sought independent external advice through the company.
The Company Secretary is The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with responsibilities responsible for advising the board, through the Chairman, on matters divided between them.
This separation of responsibilities is formalised of corporate governance.
in their respective letters of appointment, approved by the board.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans external commitments during the year.
54 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout measured against the principal duties expected of it, the board including the year and, in the month prior to the annual general meeting, he by extension its standing and ad hoc sub-committees continued also invites major shareholders to meet with him to deal with any to operate effectively and to meet in full its obligations to support issues.
The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders management, to monitor performance across a wide area, and to through regular updates from the Chairman, the Company Secretary maintain its strategic oversight.
and the executive directors, as well as through the inclusion in the In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the board papers of reports on commentaries of, and exchanges with, committee chairmen and the Company Secretary, the results of the shareholders and investor bodies.
performance and effectiveness evaluations conducted in respect of The Senior Independent Director is currently Lord Fellowes, who will the board, each of the directors, the Chairman, the Senior Independent retire from the board in July 2010 and will be succeeded by Mr Manser.
Director and each of the boards four standing committees were Both Lord Fellowes and Mr Manser chair or serve on all four main reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, each of the committee committees of the board, and are therefore well placed to influence chairmen expressed their views regarding the operation of his committee the governance of the company and to meet their responsibilities as against its terms of reference and the performance and effectiveness Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director serves of that committee.
These views were discussed in an open and as an additional contact point for shareholders should they feel that constructive manner with recommendations arising from the discussions their concerns are not being addressed through the normal channels, being brought forward to the board and the respective committees.
and is also available to fellow non-executive directors, either individually The conclusion of this meeting was that the board was balanced and or collectively, to discuss any matters of concern in a forum that does operated effectively and that the board committees discharged their not include executive directors or the management of the company.
duties under which their respective terms of reference operated effectively.
Each of the directors and the Chairman had been assessed to be In the year under review, the Chairman hosted a meeting of the nonperforming at least satisfactorily and continued to demonstrate executive directors without the executive directors present.
The Senior commitment to their respective roles and to devote sufficient time Independent Director also held a meeting of non-executive directors to the fulfilment of their duties.
without the presence of the Chairman at which, among other things, the performance of the Chairman was discussed.
The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment process as outlined above were reviewed in full and approved by the board.
4.9 Board, committee and director performance evaluation The board is satisfied with the developments made in addressing the matters identified in the 2009 evaluation as requiring further consideration, A formal evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the board and will address the minor areas identified in the most recent evaluation and of the audit, remuneration, nomination and corporate accountability process during the forthcoming period.
and risk assurance committees is carried out each year, led by the Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director and in At the forthcoming annual general meeting two directors, Mr Devitre consultation with other directors and the Company Secretary.
The and Mr Wyman are required to seek re-election in accordance with process was once again facilitated by completion by each director of the companys articles of association, having served for three years a questionnaire, and supplemented by individual meetings between since their last election.
As noted in section 3.3 of this report, the the Chairman and other directors where necessary.
The questionnaire Chairman, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa have each is refined each year as appropriate to focus on the progress made in served continuously on the board for more than nine years and, addressing the key issues raised in the previous performance and accordingly, offer themselves for re-election annually.
effectiveness evaluation conducted for the previous year.
Mr Armour The Chairman confirms that each of the directors offering themselves was not included in this process, which had been completed before for re-election continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate he joined the board.
In addition, the Chairman confirms that, in The performance of the Chief Executive is reviewed by the remuneration relation to each of the directors who will have served for over nine years, committee and this review is shared with and considered by the board.
the board is satisfied with his performance and has determined that The performance of the Chief Financial Officer is reviewed by the Chief the length of their service does not compromise their independence.
Executive and the remuneration committee, and reported on to the Lord Fellowes, as Senior Independent Director, confirms that the board by the remuneration committee.
Each non-executive directors Chairman continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate performance is evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the commitment to his role.
Senior Independent Director, who in turn consults with the executive Biographical details of Mr Armour and Mr Willard, who are standing directors and the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans performance is for election, and of the directors who are standing for re-election, evaluated against the same criteria by the Senior Independent Director, are included on pages 44 and 45 of this report.
the non-executive directors and the Company Secretary, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
4.10 Retirement of directors In considering the contribution of individual directors for the year under New directors are subject to election at the first annual general review, performance was assessed against the companys selected meeting following their appointment, and directors are subject to criteria of strategy, expertise in their field, ethics and governance factors, retirement and re-election by shareholders every three years.
The commitment, profile, knowledge of the industry and team contribution, reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
The board culminating in an overall contribution rating.
The Chairman was satisfied has determined that non-executive directors who have served for nine that the performance assessment process and criteria adequately years will be asked to stand for re-election annually, provided that the covered all of the appraisal factors suggested by the Higgs Report.
board remains satisfied both with the directors performance and that A rating scale of Poor, Below Average, Average, Above Average nine years continuous service does not compromise the directors and Fully Satisfactory was used in assessing directors performance continuing independence.
The performance and contribution of each director was assessed as either Above Average or Fully Satisfactory, while 4.11 The Company Secretary recognising the importance of the different roles played by individual The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and its committees directors in bringing a balanced overall view to the board.
In reviewing and he attended all meetings during the year under review.
the performance of the board and its committees, the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director were aligned in their conclusion that, Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 55 the interim financial statements and interim announcement: 5.
The boards committees and the the accounting treatment of the major business capability programme executive committee being undertaken throughout the group and of the Broad-Based 5.1 The executive committee Black Economic Empowerment transaction in South Africa: The board delegates responsibility for determining and implementing reports from the external auditors on the annual and interim financial the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief Executive, statements: approval of the audit plan and fee proposal for the 2010 Mr Mackay, who is supported by the executive committee excom, year end audit: which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed by Mr Mackay.
The developments in accounting standards and the groups responses: other members of excom are the Chief Financial Officer, Mr Wyman: the progress of the years internal audit programme and matters arising: the divisional managing directors responsible for managing the groups the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the appointment regional hubs Africa, Asia, Europe and Latin America : the Managing of the new Chief Internal Auditor: Director of The South African Breweries Limited: the directors of key group functions corporate affairs: marketing: and supply chain and the groups state of readiness for compliance with section 404 of the human resources : and the General Counsel and Group Company US Sarbanes-Oxley Act although the company is not an SEC registrant Secretary.
Excoms purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying and is not required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley standards : out the duties delegated to him by the board and, in that context, excom the results of the groups bi-annual letters of representation and co-ordinates brand and operational execution, delivers strategic plans, managements investigation and follow-up of any instances of budgets and financial reports for the boards consideration and, through non-compliance: the Chief Executive, reports on these matters to the board.
the internal control environment and risk management systems and Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and the groups statement on internal control systems, prior to endorsement functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process by the board: in operation throughout the group.
material legal developments: the effectiveness of the external auditors and the recommendation 5.2 The disclosure committee to the board of the reappointment of  LLP The disclosure committee consists of the Chairman, the Chief as the external auditors: Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Senior Independent Director the length of tenure of the audit engagement partner and whether to and the Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary.
The seek an extension of that tenure from  LLP function of the disclosure committee, in accordance with the groups as detailed in section 6 of this report : inside information policy, is to assure compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules, and to ensure that the the policy on auditor independence and non-audit services: and routes of communication between excom members, the disclosure its terms of reference and effectiveness.
committee, the General Counsels office, the company secretarial office The audit committee reports its activities and makes recommendations and investor relations are clear, and provide for rapid escalation to the to the board.
During the year, the audit committee discharged its disclosure committee and key advisers of any decision regarding potential responsibilities as they are defined in the committees terms of reference, inside information, so that the company is able to comply fully with its and has been engaged in ensuring that appropriate standards of continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
The committee and the Listing Rules.
has advised the board on issues relating to the application of accounting 5.3 The audit committee standards as they relate to published financial information.
During the year under review, the audit committee was chaired by The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access to the committee, primarily Mr Manser, who has been chairman of the committee since May 2002. through its chairman.
The committee has access to subsidiary company Mr Manser qualified as a chartered accountant in 1964 and was made internal audit leadership.
The reports of the divisional audit committees a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 1976.
Further are also available to the audit committee.
biographical information concerning Mr Manser is set out on page 45.
During the year, the committee met with the external auditors and Lord Fellowes who will step down from the committee upon his with the Chief Internal Auditor without management being present.
retirement in July 2010, Mr Morland, Mr Devitre and Ms Doherty served In addition to the review of the committees performance, terms of on the committee throughout the year.
Mr Morland has been a member reference and effectiveness led by the Chairman of the board, the of the committee from its first meeting on 13 April 1999.
Lord Fellowes committee critically reviewed its own performance during the year was appointed to the committee on 1 June 2001, Ms Doherty on by means of a questionnaire which each member of the committee 1 April 2006 and Mr Devitre on 16 May 2007.
The Chairman has completed independently.
The committee chairman then reviewed the recent and relevant financial experience, as does Ms Doherty, who responses and conducted one-to-one discussions with members of was Chief Financial Officer of Brambles Limited until November 2009 the committee where he felt it was necessary.
The results of the selfand was previously Group International Finance Director of Tesco assessment and any action plans arising were then reported to the board.
PLC, and Mr Devitre, having until 31 March 2008 held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Altria.
Mr Armour, who was appointed to the 5.4 The nomination committee audit committee on 1 May 2010, also has recent and relevant financial During the year, the nomination committee was chaired by Mr Kahn.
experience, being the Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier Group Lord Fellowes, Mr Bible, Mr Manser, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa and plc, a position he has held since 1996, and of its parent companies, Mr Santo Domingo were members of this committee throughout the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
The committee met four year.
Mr Manzoni, an independent non-executive director, was appointed times during the year.
The external auditors, the Chief Executive, the to the committee with effect from 19 May 2010.
Lord Fellowes will Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Internal Auditor attended each step down from the committee upon his retirement in July 2010.
Other members of the management team committee is empowered to consider the composition of the board attended as required.
It is asked to consider the retirement, appointment The work of the committee during the year included consideration and replacement of directors, and is required to make appropriate of the following matters: recommendations to the board.
in respect of the year ended 31 March 2009: the annual financial The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance of statements and the preliminary announcement before their submission skills, knowledge and experience of the board and is committed to the to the board for approval, including consideration of the group on a progressive renewal of the board through orderly succession.
Appropriate going concern basis, with particular reference to balance sheet and succession plans for the non-executive directors, for the executive treasury considerations: directors and for senior management were also kept under review.
56 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use the in July 2010.
Additionally, the Director of Corporate Affairs, Ms Clark, services of external consultants in order to identify suitable candidates met regularly with the chairman of CARAC to discuss implementation for the board to consider.
Candidates are shortlisted for consideration and planning issues, and attended all meetings of the committee.
by the nomination committee on the basis of their relevant corporate The objective of CARAC is to assist the board in the discharge of or professional skills and experience.
Strong shortlists for the positions its responsibilities in relation to corporate accountability, including filled recently by Dr Moyo and Mr Armour, both of whom the committee sustainable development, corporate social responsibility, corporate regarded as outstanding candidates, were derived after extensive social investment and ethical commercial behaviour.
An external search firm was not involved in these the committees activities can be found in the sustainable development appointments, the committees recent engagement of a leading search review section of this report and in the companys separate Sustainable firm for a similar position not having yielded any suitable candidates.
Development Report which is available on the companys website and, In accordance with the terms of the relationship agreement with Altria, upon request, in hard copy.
the only executive directors appointed to the board are the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
During the year, the CARAC focused on company-specific and industry issues which are critical to protecting the companys licence to operate.
5.5 The remuneration committee During the year, the remuneration committee consisted entirely of 6.
Relationship with auditors independent directors: Mr Morland Chairman, Lord Fellowes, Mr  were appointed as auditors of the company on Manzoni and Mr Manser.
Mr Armour, an independent non-executive 8 February 1999, subsequently becoming  director was appointed to the committee with effect from 19 May LLP PwC in 2003.
Lord Fellowes will step down from the committee upon his retirement in July 2010.
The company has in place a formal policy on auditor independence and non-audit services, with which the external auditors are required to The committee is empowered by the board to set short-term and comply, to ensure that the independence of the auditors is not impaired long-term remuneration for the executive directors and members of by the nature of non-audit work.
The policy stipulates work which is the executive committee.
More generally, the committee is responsible permitted or not permitted to be performed by the auditors, and provides for the assessment and approval of a broad remuneration strategy for appropriate approval and oversight processes.
As a further safeguard, for the group and for the operation of the companys share-based PwC confirm in a formal report to the audit committee that processes incentive plans.
This includes determination of short-term and longto ensure compliance with this policy are in place and that these term incentives for executives across the group.
This report includes a statement The remuneration committee has implemented its strategy of ensuring that, in their opinion, PwC believe that the nature of its non-audit that employees and executives are rewarded for their contribution to services has not impaired the audit of the company.
Note 3 to the the groups operating and financial performance at levels which take consolidated financial statements has a breakdown of non-audit services account of industry, market and country benchmarks.
To ensure that provided to the group by the auditors for the year under review.
the executives goals are aligned to those of the company, share The audit committee is satisfied that, for the period under review, the incentives are considered to be critical elements of executive incentive independence of the auditors has not been affected by the provision pay.
During the year, the committee engaged the services of consultants, of non-audit services.
Fees in respect of non-audit services provided Kepler Associates.
These consultants have no other connection with by PwC were primarily related to services relating to taxation, our the company.
At levels below the companys executive committee, the major business capability programme and to transaction services.
companys management consults, among others, Hay Consulting and Towers Watson, on a project basis.
The committee has also implemented a formal system for the review of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
This process involves Specifically, during the year the work of the remuneration committee the external auditors presenting to the committee their proposed included: audit strategy followed by the output of their initial discussions with reviewing trends in global executive remuneration and governance: management.
At the audit committee meeting in May, the external conducting the triennial review of the structure of the groups auditors present the output of their detailed year-end work.
In making remuneration policies, and consulting with the groups major its assessment of external auditor effectiveness, the committee reviews shareholders and institutional investor representative bodies the audit engagement letters before signature by management, reviews on the changes identified by the committee as desirable: the external auditors summary of group and subsidiary issues and managements response to the summary, and conducts an overall reviewing the key elements and design of the groups long-term review of the effectiveness of the external audit process and the external incentive schemes including peer comparator group composition : auditors.
This review is facilitated by the use of templates that rate reviewing global benchmarking methodologies and outcomes: effectiveness across 18 key criteria.
Following the review, the committee reviewing and approving performance hurdles for short and makes a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the long-term incentive awards: external auditors by the shareholders.
The committee has not adopted reviewing and approving long-term incentive awards for executive a policy on tendering frequency since it prefers to conduct an annual committee members: assessment of the auditors effectiveness: there are no contractual obligations restricting the companys choice of external auditor.
reviewing and approving total remuneration for the executive directors and executive committee members: and With the signing of the audit opinion in this Annual Report, the reviewing and approving the draft remuneration report.
audit engagement partner has completed five years in this role.
The committee has requested PwC pursuant to the Auditing Practices More details of the companys remuneration policy can be found Boards revised ethical standard ES 3 Long association with the in the remuneration report on pages 59 to 67. audit engagement to agree to an extension of the audit engagement partners tenure by one year.
This was sought in order to safeguard 5.6 The corporate accountability and risk assurance the quality of the audit, primarily due to the significant changes to key committee CARAC business processes arising from implementation of the major business Lord Fellowes chaired the committee throughout the year.
Mr Kahn, capability programme being undertaken throughout the group, and Mr Mackay, Mr Manser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Pieterse, Mr Ramaphosa the consequent shift in the profile of operational, tax, compliance and and Mr Wyman served as members for the entire period.
Dr Moyo and reporting risks.
PwC has acceded to this request.
Mr Willard joined the committee on 10 September 2009, and Dr Moyo will succeed Lord Fellowes as Chair of the committee upon his retirement Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 57 to achieve business objectives and there is an ongoing process in place 7.
Relations with shareholders for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on the During the year, the company has continued to promote dialogue significant risks faced by individual group companies and by the group with its major institutional shareholders.
All shareholders were again as a whole.
This process has been in place for the year under review up encouraged to attend the annual general meeting held in July 2009, to the approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The principal risks which provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask questions and uncertainties facing the group are set out on pages 24 and 25. of the board and chairmen of all the board committees.
Similarly, all shareholders were encouraged to attend the General and Court 8.2 Executive committee Meetings held in January 2010 at which they were asked to consider Excom has specific responsibility as the risk management committee our Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment transaction.
At for the groups system of risk management.
Excom reviews the groups the meetings, all resolutions were put to a poll, with the results being significant risks and subsequently reports to the board on material published on the Regulatory News Service and on the companys changes and the associated mitigating actions.
A transcript of the General and Court Meetings was also made available on the companys website.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005, reviews on the effectiveness of the risk management system were carried out by Alongside the facilities offered by the Company Secretarys department, the risk management committee in April and September 2009 and the company maintains a dedicated investor relations function which in April 2010. reports to the Director of Corporate Affairs.
The investor relations team builds and maintains long-term relationships with institutional investors 8.3 Enterprise-wide risk management and analysts and, in partnership with our corporate and divisional management teams and within the scope of regulatory constraints, Excom views the careful and appropriate management of risk as a key gives presentations on regional business outlooks and strives to ensure management role.
Managing business risk to deliver opportunities is that these are understood across the global equity markets in subsequent a key element of all our business activities.
This is undertaken using one-to-one meetings with investors.
Occasional business site visits are a practical and flexible framework which provides a consistent and also arranged.
Dialogue on socially responsible investment is handled sustained approach to risk evaluation.
The business risks, which may by the Head of Sustainable Development in the corporate affairs be strategic, operational, financial, environmental or concerning the department, who undertakes focused briefings with interested investors groups reputation, are understood and visible.
The business context and stakeholders.
determines in each situation the level of acceptable risk and controls.
We continue to seek improvement in the management of risk by In addition to scheduled management-led programmes in which sharing best practice throughout the organisation.
executives interact with investors and analysts, the Chairman has, independently, initiated formal contact with all shareholders or their Key features of the groups system of risk management are: representatives holding more than 1% of the issued share capital of group statements on strategic direction, ethics and values: the company.
The purpose of this contact is to enable the Chairman clear business objectives and business principles: to address any queries shareholders may have regarding the governance an established risk policy: of the company or non-operational aspects of company strategy.
It is also, more broadly, designed to give the board a greater awareness of a continuing process for identification and evaluation of significant shareholder concerns.
During the year, this invitation was taken up by risks to the achievement of business objectives: two shareholders and, following the year end, the Chairman and the management processes in place to mitigate significant risks to Senior Independent Director, accompanied by Mr Manser and the an acceptable level: Company Secretary, met with representatives from the investment ongoing monitoring of significant risks and internal and external committee of the Association of British Insurers.
Alongside the Chairman, environmental factors that may change the groups risk profile: and the Senior Independent Director is also available to discuss issues a regular review by the group of both the type and amount of external with shareholders and views expressed will be communicated by the insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, Chairman to the board.
During the year, one shareholder requested a its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
meeting with the Senior Independent Director.
As part of this initiative, and recognising that given the geographic spread of our shareholders In addition to excoms bi-annual reports to the board on key risks, it is not possible for all shareholders to attend our general meetings, there is a process of regular reporting to the board through the audit the Chairman offers to meet with significant shareholders in the month committee on the status of the risk management process.
Our before the annual general meeting specifically to deal with issues arising approach has been strengthened during 2010 by further integrating from the annual report and notice of the annual general meeting.
No strategic planning, internal audit and other risk control specialists into shareholders took up this invitation in 2009.
All non-executive directors line managements risk processes and simplifying risk reporting.
of the company are invited to participate in this process.
Institutional Key reports include those that identify, assess and monitor strategic and shareholder comment on the Annual Report is conveyed to the and operational risks in each division and on a group basis.
board through the audit and remuneration committees and the Company Secretary.
Internal control In addition, the remuneration committee this year conducted an extensive consultation process with major shareholders and institutional investor The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice on internal control for representative bodies to discuss the outcome of the committees UK listed companies to assist them in assessing the application of triennial review of the structure of the groups remuneration policies, the Combined Codes principles and compliance with the Combined as more fully described in the remuneration report.
Codes provisions with regard to internal control.
The groups systems of internal control are designed and operated to 8.
Risk management support the identification, evaluation and management of risks affecting the group, including in relation to the financial reporting process and The groups risk management system is subject to regular review to the preparation of consolidated accounts, and the business environment ensure compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code and in which it operates.
As such, they are subject to continuous review the Turnbull Guidance 2005 on internal control and risk management.
as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
The company has maintained a state of readiness for compliance with s404 of the 8.1 Risk and the board of directors Sarbanes-Oxley Act through the Internal Financial Control IFC programme.
The directors are ultimately responsible for the groups risk management This is a voluntary initiative, and has led to a further strengthening of system and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The risk management internal control systems and processes within the group.
system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure 58 Corporate governance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Key features of the systems of internal control are: The board, with advice from the audit committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control the risk management system described in the preceding section: for the period since 1 April 2009 in accordance with the Turnbull written policies and procedures within our businesses, which are Guidance, and is satisfied that this system is in accordance with that detailed in policy manuals: Guidance and that it has been in place throughout the year under clearly defined lines of accountability and delegation of authority: review and up to the date of this report.
identification and regular testing of key financial controls through the IFC programme: 10.
Internal audit key policies employed in managing operating risk involve The global internal audit function consists of local and regional segregation of duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, internal audit functions operating in each of the groups principal financial and managerial and comprehensive reporting and business units, centrally co-ordinated by the group internal audit analysis against approved standards and budgets: team and led by the Chief Internal Auditor.
In keeping with the groups group treasury operations which manage exposure to interest decentralised collaborative management structure, the local internal rate, counterparty, liquidity and currency transaction risks and coaudit functions report to local senior finance management but have ordinate the activities of group companies in this area.
Treasury direct access to local audit committees, group internal audit and policies, risk limits and monitoring procedures are reviewed the Chief Internal Auditor.
The local and regional audit functions have regularly by the audit committee on behalf of the board: continuous, unfettered interface with the group internal audit function, a group tax risk and tax operating framework which forms the which reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer and has direct basis of tax governance across the group and is managed by access to the audit committee through the Chief Internal Auditor.
a group tax function which monitors tax risk and implements Internal audit activities are performed either by teams of appropriate, strategies and procedures to control it: qualified and experienced employees, or through the engagement of external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms with equivalent minimisation of operating risk by using appropriate infrastructure, access.
The Chief Internal Auditor prepares formal reports for each controls, systems and people throughout the businesses: and audit committee meeting as to the consolidated activities and key business continuity planning, including preventative and contingency findings of the global internal audit function.
measures, back-up capabilities and the purchase of insurance.
The global internal audit function utilises a standardised group-wide Assurance on compliance with systems of internal control and on internal audit methodology and has implemented a formal global their effectiveness is obtained through regular management reviews, quality assurance and effectiveness programme.
Accordingly, detailed review of key financial controls, internal audit reviews and quality quality review assessments are performed with regard to the local assurance described in section 10 below, testing of certain aspects and regional internal audit teams, to ensure compliance with defined of the internal financial control systems by the external auditors during quality and performance measures.
This process provides a basis the course of their statutory examinations and regular reports to for the annual review of the effectiveness of the global internal audit the audit committee by the external auditors.
The groups divisional function and results in a formal report prepared by the Chief Internal Finance, Control and Assurance committees consider the results of Auditor to the audit committee to support the committees formal these reviews to confirm that controls are functioning and to ensure annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal audit.
In addition, that any material breakdowns and remedial actions have been periodic reviews by independent external consultants are undertaken reported to the appropriate boards of directors.
This does not apply when deemed necessary by the audit committee.
in respect of the groups associated undertakings or joint ventures.
The audit committee has therefore satisfied itself that adequate, At the half year and at the year end the divisional managing directors objective internal audit assurance standards and procedures exist and finance directors of all the groups operations, and each of the within the group, and that continuous improvement in the quality groups functional directors, are required to submit formal letters of and objectivity of the global internal audit function remains a primary representation on controls, compliance and notification of continuing objective of the department.
or potential material financial and legal exposures.
These letters form the subject of reports to the audit committee.
Whistleblowing measures They cover all subsidiary companies but do not cover joint ventures or associates except for MillerCoors and Tsogo Sun, which submit All employees in subsidiaries within the group have the opportunity tailored letters of representation.
Where material, group executives to make confidential disclosures about suspected impropriety and sit on the boards of associated companies.
The Company Secretary or the Deputy Company Secretary, of the executive committee also make annual written declarations in consultation with the Chief Internal Auditor where appropriate, of interests and are obliged to report without delay any potential decide on the appropriate method and level of investigation.
The audit or actual conflicts of interest which may arise.
committee is notified of all material disclosures made and receives reports on the results of investigations and actions taken.
The audit The directors are responsible for the groups systems of internal committee has the power to request further information, conduct its control and for reviewing their effectiveness annually.
The board own inquiries or order additional action as it sees fit.
has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the groups internal controls covering material financial, operational and compliance John Davidson controls and risk management systems for the year under review.
General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any For and on behalf of the board of SABMiller plc significant weaknesses identified from the boards review of the internal control system.
The systems of internal control are designed 3 June 2010 to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In reviewing these, the board has taken into account the results of all the work carried out by internal and external auditors.
