Corporate governance statement The Company and the Group are committed to high standards The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a matter for the of corporate governance and the Board is accountable to the Board as a whole.
Companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing This statement describes how the relevant principles of corporate trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and governance are applied by the Company.
Throughout the year the monitoring strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities and Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in the reviewing regular reports to shareholders.
In the year under review the Revised Combined Code June 2008 on Corporate Governance Board met on six occasions.
All directors in office at the time attended issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code, all of these Board meetings other than Ms R Markland, who was other than in relation to the period from 1 June 2010 until Mr P A unable to attend one meeting.
Walker's retirement from the Board on 30 September 2010 when The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to Mr Walker was a non-executive director of two FTSE 100 companies, ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors Diageo plc and Experian plc, contrary to paragraph A.
4.5 of the are fully considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, Combined Code.
In the light of Mr Walkers retirement from the Board all directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing it was felt appropriate to allow him the opportunity to pursue these papers are distributed by the Secretary to all directors in advance non-executive director appointments.
The Company is aware of the terms of the UK Corporate Governance The members of the Board have evaluated the performance of the Code published in May 2010 which will apply for the first time to the Board, its committees and individual members at meetings and also Company from 1 October 2010 and is taking appropriate steps to through the completion of detailed questionnaires.
The questionnaires ensure compliance with that code.
cover a range of issues relating to the Boards role and its responsibilities, the conduct of Board meetings and the structures The workings of the Board in place to ensure that the Board has the opportunity to debate and its committees fully areas of concern, the leadership and culture of the Group.
The questionnaires also consider Board communications, governance The Board and the performance of the committees and their members.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief The completed questionnaires are reviewed and considered by Executive, three other executive directors and five other independent the Chairman and by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman follows non-executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief this review with meetings with individual directors.
The Company Executive are quite distinct from one another and are clearly defined Secretary also raises the areas covered by the questionnaires for in written terms of reference for each role adopted by the Board and discussion with key executives who support the Board and the available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered committees and key advisers and reports their views to the Chairman.
office and on the Companys website at www.
This years review highlighted areas for further focus by the Board, particularly in the area of strategy, and considered the information The directors biographies appear on pages 36 and 37.
These made available to the Board.
The views of the directors on the demonstrate that the directors have a range of experience and are evaluation process and the use of a third party facilitator to assist in of sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement to bear on issues that review were noted and, as a result, steps will be taken of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which to ensure third party evaluation in the current financial year.
is vital to the success of the Group.
All directors are subject to re-election at least every three years, although all directors will retire The current Board complies with the main principle in paragraph and seek re-election other than Mr T C W Ingram at the Annual A.
3 of the Combined Code in that it includes a balance of executive General Meeting on 2 March 2011.
At the same meeting, a resolution and non-executive directors so that no individual or small group of will be put to the meeting to amend the articles of association of the individuals can dominate the Boards decision taking.
Company to require the annual re-election of directors.
New members of the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management induction to the Board.
Where it is considered appropriate, training is made Under the Companies Act 2006 a director must avoid a situation available to directors and training needs are assessed as part of the where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, evaluation procedure of the Board referred to below.
A statement of or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows the directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential page 50.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain specifically reserved to it for decision which is available to a provision to this effect.
The articles of association give the directors shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered office and authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to which is also available on the Companys website at www.
allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures At the commencement of each Board meeting, the Board consider a are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied register of interests and potential conflicts of directors and give, when with.
The Secretary ensures that the directors take independent appropriate, any necessary approvals.
professional advice as required at the expense of the Company when it is judged necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
The Sage Group plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether Remuneration Committee to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who The Groups Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ms R Markland.
have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the The other members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board, relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors Mr A J Hobson, and the other independent non-executive directors, must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to Ms T Ingram, Mr T C W Ingram, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
The directors are able to impose Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at least twice a limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this year.
In the year under review, five meetings of the Committee were is appropriate.
held on full notice with three further meetings held at short notice.
All members in office at the time attended all the meetings other than The Chairman Messrs Mason, Rolfe and Ingram who were unable to attend one meeting held on short notice and Ms T Ingram who was unable to The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board ensure that this attend three meetings held at short notice.
The Chief Executive may, role is quite distinct from that of the Chief Executive and are set out on by invitation of the Committee, attend meetings except when his own the Companys website at www.
performance or remuneration are under review but he is not a The Chairman of the Board has held meetings with the non-executive member of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making directors without the executive directors.
In addition, the nonrecommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, executive directors have met without the Chairman present to on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Chairman also ensures The Committee determines the contract terms, remuneration and that shareholder communication and responses are discussed at other benefits for each of the executive directors including each meeting of the Board and that all shareholders have access performance share awards, performance-related bonus schemes, to the non-executive directors, through a request to the Chairman pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors remuneration for those senior executives below Board level.
The Senior Independent Director The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive The Board appointed Mr T C W Ingram to the role of Senior directors.
The Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
This role provides a point of contact for those Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given shareholders who wish to raise issues with the Board, other than in the Remuneration report on pages 51 to 62, together with further through the Chairman.
He is available to consult with shareholders details of the Remuneration Committee.
and also chairs meetings of the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
Mr Ingram will be retiring from the Board Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting on 2 March 2011 at which point Ms R Markland will take on the role.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr M E Rolfe.
Its other members are independent non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Ms R Markland, Ms T Ingram and Mr I Mason.
Mr Rolfe is a Fellow Committees of the Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and Committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects of the is considered by the Board to have the recent and relevant financial Groups affairs.
These committees are the Remuneration Committee, experience required for the provisions of the Combined Code.
the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of all The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business these committees are set out below.
Whilst the Board notes that all experience, which is evidenced in their biographies on pages 36 independent non-executive directors other than the Chairman of the and 37.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee and Board are members of all Board committees, it is considered that the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
membership is appropriate in light of the Boards policy that all Full induction training is provided for new members and additional independent non-executive directors are given the opportunity to take training is provided as and when required.
Having reviewed the part in the discussions of those committees.
The terms of reference of composition of the Committee in the year under review, the Board the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed is satisfied that the Committee has the resources and expertise annually and are available on request from the Secretary at the to fulfil effectively its responsibilities, including those relating to risks registered office of the Company or on the Companys website and controls.
The Sage Group plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of reference, Internal controls and risk management The Committee are to: considers reports from internal audit on the operation of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, Make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration together with observations from the external auditors.
of external auditors and to monitor their performance and The Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups risk independence: management process, which considers the key risks, both Approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the effectiveness the external auditors to ensure that the independence of the of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact of auditors is not compromised: those risks.
Review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and Internal audit Internal audit activities and responsibilities were annual financial statements, its accounting policies and on the previously provided by KPMG, under an outsourcing agreement.
control and mitigation of its financial and business risks: During the course of the financial year, the Committee decided to Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the change the arrangement with KPMG to a co-source arrangement external and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and of with certain internal audit services being provided by a team within the response of management: and the Group.
The role of Head of Internal Audit is now undertaken by Review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the the Group Risk and Assurance Director who has a direct reporting Companys internal control environment, including its line to the Audit Committee and its Chairman in order to ensure whistleblowing procedures.
An internal audit charter is also in place which outlines the objectives, authority, scope and responsibilities of In order to fulfil its duties referred to above, the Committee receives internal audit.
Performance against this charter is reviewed on sufficient, reliable and timely information from management as referred an annual basis.
The terms of reference of the Committee are reviewed on It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the an annual basis and are available at www.
The Committee Board on the extent to which systems of internal control are is satisfied that the terms enable the Committee to fulfil its effective.
The internal audit plan which covers the scope, responsibilities and determined that no material changes authority and resources of the function is determined through were necessary.
a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the Audit Committee.
Meetings The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was The Committee invites executive directors, management, external reviewed and approved, the reports of results received and the and internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the for the matters being discussed.
beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
Work of the Committee External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for the In the financial year, the Audit Committee met on four occasions with development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy all members present on each occasion other than Ms R Markland on external audit.
who was unable to attend one meeting and reported its conclusions The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the to the Board.
It met privately with the internal and external auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and without executives present.
It also met with executive management regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee and day-to-day and executive directors.
responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial year as follows: Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high level review Interim Report respectively.
The Sage Group plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit At each meeting, the Committee receives a report from the external Committee reviewed: auditors providing an update on the fees for non-audit services incurred since the previous meeting.
Where the cumulative non-audit The external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and fees in the year are anticipated to exceed a certain sum, the prior any variations: approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their In the year to 30 September 2010 the audit fee was 2.0m.
handling of key accounting and audit judgements: and The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform The content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external above the external audit.
The fees in relation to these services were auditor are considered annually by the Audit Committee.
1.6m of which 1.5m was attributable to tax services 1.3m to tax compliance work and 0.2m to tax advisory services and 0.1m to The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence other non-tax compliance services which include interim review costs of the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their non-audit and are therefore closely associated with the audit.
Further details of work and has adopted controls to ensure that this independence is fees paid to auditors are set out on page 78. not compromised.
These controls include the continued monitoring of the independence and effectiveness of the audit process.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to external audit and, having considered the services provided by Audit partners are rotated every five years with the most recent the current external auditors, their independence and knowledge of change taking place in the year to 30 September 2010.
A formal the Group and the factors referred to above, the Committee has statement of independence from the external auditors is received determined to recommend to the Board the reappointment of the each year.
In addition, the Audit Committee has adopted a specific auditors at the Annual General Meeting in March 2011.
In reaching policy on auditor independence drawing together the various existing this decision, the Committee also had regard to the likelihood of a Group policies in this area.
This policy requires that there is full withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
The current external consideration of independence issues before any appointment of an auditors were appointed to that role in 1988.
The Committee has employee or former employee of the auditor to a position with the determined that, providing the work of the external auditors remains Group.
It expressly states that the Group will not engage the auditors entirely satisfactory, formal consideration of a tender process will be to undertake any work that could threaten the independence of the undertaken every five years, around the time that the audit partner is auditors and prohibits the Group from engaging the auditors to normally changed.
undertake certain types of service, such as, amongst others, human resources services, legal and actuarial services.
The most recent change of audit partner occurred in the year to 30 September 2010 and, therefore, formal consideration of an The Committee believes that the Company receives particular benefit audit tender process took place during the course of that year.
from tax advice provided by its auditors given their wide and detailed The Committee gave full consideration to the performance and knowledge of the Group and its international nature.
Executive independence of the auditors and after this review considered that management has the discretion, subject to certain financial a tender process was not required given the processes already in limitations, to obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior place to ensure independence and the performance to date of the reference to the Audit Committee, subject to regularly appraising the current auditors.
Audit Committee of the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Where these financial limitations are exceeded, the approval of the Audit Committee is required for such appointment.
The Group also Nomination Committee receives taxation advice from other large accountancy practices as The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and when appropriate.
Mr A J Hobson and consists of the Chairman and five independent Non-audit services other than in relation to taxation may be non-executive directors, Mr T C W Ingram, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
In the absence undertaken by the external auditors, subject to the rules referred to of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee is chaired by the above, with all projects expected to cost in excess of an amount set Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination Committee meets not by the Audit Committee being approved in advance either by the less than once a year.
Three meetings of the Committee took place Chairman of the Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee, in the year under review at which all the members of the Committee depending on the expected cost of the project.
The Chairman of the in office at the time were present.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee may require that such projects are put out to tender Committee took the lead, with the assistance of the services of to a number of firms.
It is the policy of the Committee to require that external consultants, in the search for a new Chief Executive of the acquisition due diligence be undertaken by firms other than the Group, considering both internal and external candidates and auditors unless conflicts of interest for comparable firms make recommending to the Board the appointment of Mr G S Berruyer.
The Sage Group plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk relating to the composition of the Board and its committees including assessment process to the Board.
The Board then draws its proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of the system of internal to its balance and structure and considering issues of succession.
The key procedures, which the directors have established Recruitment consultants are used to assist in the process.
The with a view to providing effective internal control, are as follows: Nomination Committee is also responsible for an annual review of the membership of the Board, evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge Indication of business risks and experience on the Board and advising the Board on any areas The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success where further recruitment may be appropriate.
It also considers the of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
succession planning of the Group for key executive personnel at Such processes, which are reviewed and improved as necessary, Board level and below and undertook a review of this area in the year include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, under review.
the regular monitoring of performance and control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
The Company has formed a Risk Relations with shareholders Committee consisting of the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, the Group Risk and Assurance Director, the Secretary and certain Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
The Business other members of the Executive Committee.
review on pages 1 to 39 including Principal risks and uncertainties include a detailed review of the business and future developments in The Committee reviews all business activities and strategic plans to relation to it.
A full Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all identify the nature and extent of the significant risks facing the Group shareholders who so wish.
The Company also has a website including those risks arising from social, environmental and ethical www.
com which contains up-to-date information on Group issues and undertakes risk review audits.
In identifying significant risks activities and published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with to which the Group is exposed, it reviews the results of any relevant individual institutional shareholders and there are presentations to internal audit reviews and agrees mitigating actions, when possible.
analysts after the Companys announcement of the year end and halfThe conclusions of the Risk Committee are reported on a regular year results.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an update on basis to the Audit Committee.
Through the work of the Audit and Risk presentations to investors and any communication from shareholders Committees, the Board is provided with a balanced assessment of to ensure that directors, both executive and non-executive, have an the significant risks associated with the Groups operations and the understanding of their views.
effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in many private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
operating companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US allowing employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
Processes Internal control and risk management for the confidential reporting of concerns exist in France, Germany The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the and Spain and the Group is considering the introduction of further Groups system of internal controls and risk management.
There is an telephone hotlines where local legislation permits.
The Audit ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Committee receives regular reports on any matters raised through significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is managed on a these services and monitors their use throughout the Group.
day-to-day basis by the Group Risk and Assurance Director and has The Board considers that it receives, as a result, adequate information been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval for the identification and assessment of risk.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions with management on significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results from, internal and external audits.
The Sage Group plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Financial reporting Internal audit In addition to the general internal controls and risk management The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG to review processes described above, the Group also has specific internal compliance with procedures and assess the integrity of the control controls and risk management systems to govern the financial environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by reporting process.
The requirements for producing financial assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and information are governed by the Group Accounting Manual, against procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations which the Groups external auditors review the financial statements.
and these are followed up by the Audit Committee to ensure that Financial control requirements are set out in a detailed Financial satisfactory control is maintained.
Controls Policy, which is subject to internal audit reviews on an annual basis.
Any part of the Group not subject to a specific internal audit Budgetary process review of financial controls in any given year is required to self assess A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets on the effectiveness of their financial control environment.
for all operating subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary Management representations covering the compliance with relevant boards.
Subsequently the combined budget is subject to policies and the accuracy of financial information are also collated on consideration and approval by the Board.
Management information an annual basis.
systems provide the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high Investment appraisal including acquisitions recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition Management structure activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the management.
A clearly defined organisational structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
Information on share capital and The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief other matters Executive, the executive directors and the executive committee.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local The information about share capital required to be included in this executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for statement can be found on page 41 of the Directors report.
the conduct and performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the Statement by the directors on compliance reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board with the provisions of the Combined Code and to Group policies and guidelines.
The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out Directors in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year, other than in relation to the period from 1 June 2010 until Mr P A Walkers The information about the appointment and replacement of directors retirement from the Board on 30 September 2010 when Mr Walker and the powers of directors required to be included in this statement was a non-executive director of two FTSE 100 companies, Diageo can be found on page 42 of the Directors report.
plc and Experian plc, contrary to paragraph A.
In the light of Mr Walkers retirement from the Board it was Articles of Association felt appropriate to allow him the opportunity to pursue these The information about making amendments to the articles of non-executive director appointments.
association required to be included in this statement can be found at page 42 of the Directors report.
Going concern The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Sage Group plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued Statement of directors responsibilities Each of the persons who is a director at the time of this report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the confirms that: Remuneration report and the Group and parent Company financial So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements The director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union auditors are aware of that information.
and the parent Company financial statements in accordance with This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company By Order of the Board law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss M J Robinson of the Group for that period.
Secretary In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: 20 December 2010 Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent Company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of directors and advisers section on pages 36 and 37, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Sage Group plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
