Directors and Corporate Governance 8 Corporate Governance Report In making this representation the Board acknowledges Compliance With the UK Corporate that John Matthews and Chris Batterham have been Governance Code 2010 independent directors for a period in excess of the nine The Board is committed to delivering full compliance years, defined by the Code as suggesting independent against the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 status may be impacted, but the Board views them and transparent reporting of its compliance position.
as highly independent in deed and action.
The Board Where SDL does not fully comply the Board provides considers John Matthews and Chris Batterham to be a comprehensive explanation as to why together with essential assets to the Board with extensive experience a clear plan as to what is being done to secure full of both the strategic business drivers of SDL, corporate compliance.
governance, compliance and the UK technology sector.
Throughout 2010 the Company complied with all Given this, it has been agreed that John Matthews of the provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code and Chris Batterham will both be proposed for reother than provision A.
In addition, the Board election in 2011.
This will facilitate full succession considers that during the year ended 31 December planning around all of the activities of John Matthews 2010 the Company complied with all of the provisions and Chris Batterham in 2011.
The Board is committed of The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 formerly to make further changes in 2011 in order that it will the Combined Code with the exception of A.
2.1. fully meet the balanced Board principles of the Code Provision A.
2.1 requires that the roles of Chairman without having to assert the independence of John and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the Matthews and Chris Batterham collectively to achieve same individual.
This will involve the appointment of one new independent director in 2011 and one of John On principle A.
2.1 following detailed consideration, Matthews or Chris Batterham will step down from the changes have been made effective 1 February 2011 to Board.
The Board believes that orderly succession on split the Chairman and Chief Executive role, with Mark Board structure is in the best interest of shareholders.
Lancaster formerly Chairman and Chief Executive John Matthews and Chris Batterham will relinquish becoming Executive Chairman and John Hunter some Committee responsibilities in line with the being appointed as Chief Executive.
This removes the suggestions of the Code.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code replaces the Combined Code for In Q1 2011 David Clayton, who has played a critical financial years starting on or after 29 June 2010 and role since his appointment in 2009, will replace John contains a provision requiring FTSE 350 companies Matthews as Senior Independent Director as part of the to put the full Board up for re-election each year Board succession planning process.
SDL will consider the requirement for annual The Groups application of the principles of the Code, re-election for its AGM in 2012, after the first complete explanations for any non-compliance and subsequent financial year to which the Code applies.
Four of the preparations to improve compliance, can be seen eight Directors submit themselves for re-election at the in the following table.
Where necessary, to provide 2011 AGM.
further detail, more comprehensive disclosures are made elsewhere in this report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board is responsible for determining the long-term direction and A.
Leadership strategy of the Group and provides entrepreneurial leadership within a A.
1 The Role of the Board framework of sound, robust corporate governance and effective control Every company should be which identifies and manages risk.
Throughout 2010 the Board continued headed by an effective Board to adapt and focus the enhanced governance and control environment which is collectively responsible introduced during 2009. for the long term success of the company.
The Board meets regularly and met nine times during 2010 and Board structure and roles are fully defined along with fully populated Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Following 1 February 2011, the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive have a clear split of responsibilities and their role remits have been signed off by the Board.
The Executive Chairman runs the Board and considers that effective communication between Board members is crucial to leadership and delivery.
Further information about the role of the Board and the various Committees is given later in this report.
The Board meets regularly and usually with full participation of all Board members see the Attendance at Meetings table below.
SDL strategy is to deliver profitable growth to shareholders through our seven strategic focal points key account growth, cross leverage, geographic expansion, technology leadership, acquisition and partnership, operational effectiveness and corporate social responsibility.
As SDL continues to expand its global operations and build scale, effective governance and strong communication between Board members is crucial.
The Board plays a crucial role in setting the strategic objectives of the company, governance and evaluation of internal controls and financial reporting, testing strategy execution and performance, assessing resourcing needs and ensuring the right balance between risk taking and reward through validation of the Groups risk management approach.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on the Investors section of the website or from the Company Secretary on request.
2 Division of Responsibilities During 2010 the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were There should be a clear division of combined and it was not possible to assert that a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the responsibilities existed between these two functions.
As of 1 February 2011 company between the running the posts were split and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer each of the Board and the executive have roles and responsibilities which have been reviewed by the Board responsibility for the running of and, in line with the Code, are clearly defined and set out in writing.
No one Chairman, Mark Lancaster, is responsible for the leadership of the Board individual should have unfettered and working with the Board to set strategic direction.
John Hunter, the powers of decision.
Chief Executive Officer, has responsibility for running the Groups business.
3 The Chairman The Chairman ensures that each Board meeting has a strong strategic focus The chairman is responsible and that Board members are regularly appraised of strategy development for leadership of the Board and and execution, forecasts, corporate developments including acquisition ensuring its effectiveness on all and operational and human resource implications of strategy.
The Board aspects of its role.
members are also updated on current external and investor sentiment.
The Chairman, Mark Lancaster, does not meet the independence criteria as set out in B.
1.1 of the code however, in line with A.
3.1 the Board feels that the appointment is in line with shareholder sentiment and appropriate given the strategic direction of the Group.
4 Non-executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors bring a strong external view of current best As part of their role as members practices to Board meetings and constructively challenge operational of a unitary Board, Non-Executive management on proposals and scrutinise management performance.
Directors should constructively The Non-Executive Directors meet during the year without Executive challenge and help develop Directors or other executive management present.
In Q1 2011 David Clayton will be appointed as Senior Independent Director, taking over from John Matthews who will be stepping down from the Board Committees in 2011.
At the end of 2010 the Board consisted of eight Directors: three Executive B.
Effectiveness Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
1 The Composition of the Board The Board and its committees The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied should have the appropriate that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
balance of skills, experience, Changes to the commitments of the directors are reported to the Board.
independence and knowledge of The Board has broad experience in different functional disciplines and the company to enable them to an appropriate range of skills and considerable depth in management of discharge their respective duties international business and global risk management.
Changes on the Executive side of the Board in 2011 have been as follows: As of 1 February 2011 Mark Lancaster has become Executive Chairman and John Hunter has been appointed Chief Executive.
As of 31 March 2011 Cristina Lancaster will resign from the Board to pursue a part time role.
Matthew Knight has been appointed as the new Chief Financial Officer and will start working in SDL in April.
Going forward therefore the Board will have three Executive Directors Mark Lancaster, John Hunter and Matthew Knight.
On the Non-Executive Director side one new Non-Executive Director will be appointed in 2011.
This Non-Executive Director will have the financial background required to be on the Audit Committee with relevant accounting experience.
The Board will use this appointment to review other Non-Executive Director roles and ensure that it will fully meet the balanced board principles of the code without having to assert the independence of Chris Batterham or John Matthews.
One of Chris Batterham or John Matthews will step down from the Board in 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Corporate Governance Report continued B.
1 The Composition of the Board The Committee memberships are as follows: continued The Audit Committee is led by David Clayton who as Group Strategy and Mergers and Acquisitions Director for The Sage Group plc has considerable recent and relevant experience and carries strong governance background.
The other members are John Matthews, Chris Batterham and Jane Thompson.
Both Chris Batterham and John Matthews have the professional accounting knowledge defined by the Code.
In 2011 John Matthews will step down from the Audit Committee in Q1 following completion of the Annual Results process.
Chris Batterham will remain on the Committee to provide professional accounting experience until the new Non-Executive Director is appointed, at which point Chris Batterham will step down from the Audit Committee after an appropriate handover period.
The new Non-Executive Director will meet the professional accountancy experience requirements defined by the Code.
The Remuneration Committee is led by Jane Thompson with Chris Batterham, David Clayton and John Matthews as members.
Jane Thompson brings a wide range of business and commercial skills to the role.
Through her executive coaching company, Hayfield Group Ltd, she enables leaders to maximise their individual impact, influence and performance which benefits their teams and businesses.
John Matthews and Chris Batterham will step down from the Remuneration Committee in Q1 2011 and the new Non-Executive Director will be appointed to the Committee on joining.
Joe Campbell will also be appointed to the Committee effective Q1 2011.
The Nomination Committee currently consists of Mark Lancaster as Chair, with Chris Batterham, John Matthews and Joe Campbell as members.
In Q1 2011, Mark Lancaster will relinquish the role of Nomination Committee Chairman to David Clayton.
John Matthews will step off the Nomination Committee in Q1 2011.
Going forward the Committee will consist of David Clayton as Chairman, Mark Lancaster, Joe Campbell and Chris Batterham.
The new Non-Executive Director will also be appointed to the Nomination Committee on joining.
Each of the Committees have formal terms of reference, which are set out on the Groups website, only members are entitled to attend Committee meetings unless the subject of specific invitation.
The Remuneration Committee automatically invites the Chief Executive Officer to attend to discuss the performance of other Executive Directors and Senior SDL Executive team members excluding his own performance.
2 Appointments to the Board Appointments to the Board are governed by the Companys Articles of There should be a formal, Association Articles and at the AGM in April 2010 new Articles were rigorous and transparent adopted by the shareholders primarily to take account of changes in procedure for the appointment of English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006. new directors to the Board.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to lead the formal rigorous process for SDL plc Board appointments, the re-election of directors and to make recommendations on membership of the statutory Committees.
The Nomination Committee also has a critical role in working with the Board to ensure orderly succession for appointments to the Board is in place.
3 Commitment The Board has satisfied itself that the Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief All directors should be able to Financial Officer and Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time available allocate sufficient time to the to devote to their duties as Board members.
The letters of appointment of company to discharge their all Board members are available for inspection at the Companys registered responsibilities effectively.
office and set out expected minimum time commitments to the Company.
4 Development There is a formal Director induction programme which was operated during All directors should receive 2010 for Jane Thompson and David Clayton.
It covers matters such as the induction on joining the Board operations and activities of the group, the groups key financial and nonand should regularly update and financial risks and the role of the Board and its Committees.
Jane Thompson refresh their skills and knowledge.
and David Clayton also met with external advisors as appropriate.
Board knowledge training needs formed part of the recently completed Board evaluation and the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Non-Executive Directors receive ongoing training in order that they can appropriately perform their duties.
The Directors may take independent professional advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
5 Information and Support Board papers are circulated, wherever possible, in advance of meetings to The Board should be supplied allow time for the consideration of content prior to the meeting.
Formal in a timely manner with packages of documents to be discussed and considered at Board meetings information in a form and of a are prepared for all Board members.
Where appropriate position papers are quality appropriate to enable it to prepared with input from external advisors to validate recommendations discharge its duties.
There is a focus on early delivery of management accounting and financial reports and also acquisition proposals are normally considered as formal presentations by the Board member recommending the acquisition.
Infrequently urgent matters are considered by telephone or circular resolution or contact between Board members but all critical decisions are ratified through the formal process of the Board.
Regular presentations are made to the Board on software development plans and operating segment management and growth strategies as well as strategic intent.
This enables all Directors to be current on critical issues facing the business.
The Board also frequently reviews industry and market developments impacting SDL.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Corporate Governance Report continued B.
6 Evaluation Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual The Board should undertake directors takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms a formal and rigorous annual of reference of the Nomination Committee with the aim of improved evaluation of its own performance individual contribution, effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
Chris and that of its committees and Batterham initiated a formal internal review of the effectiveness of the Board individual directors.
and its working processes at the end of 2010.
The evaluation involved all directors completing a detailed questionnaire.
The Board is in the process of considering its conclusions and the resulting actions arising from the review.
Key matters to be considered include: Strategic development was highly scored by all members of the Board and the importance of carving out sufficient time for strategic discussion and debate stressed.
Effective individual development plans which can be realistically addressed to be reviewed.
Emphasis on succession planning down the organisation in the next phase to maintain and enhance the current strong management teams.
The Board is committed to continually review its effectiveness and will adopt Code provision 3.6.
2 which states evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer together with the Non-Executive Directors evaluate the performance of the other Executive Board members leading to annual salary reviews and bonus targets achievement assessment.
The Non-Executive Directors have responsibility to perform an evaluation of the performance of Mark Lancaster for 2010.
7 Re-election All Directors submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at All Directors should be submitted least every 3 years.
In 2011 the following Directors will submit themselves for for re-election at regular intervals, re-election John Matthews, Chris Batterham, Joe Campbell and John Hunter.
subject to continued satisfactory The new UK Corporate Governance Code replaces the Combined Code for performance.
financial years starting on or after 29 June 2010 and contains a provision requiring FTSE 350 companies to put the full Board up for re-election each year B.
SDL will consider the requirement for annual re-election for its AGM in 2012, after the first complete financial year to which the Code applies.
The Chairman and the Nomination Committee regularly discuss the shape and structure of the Board and the need for refreshment or alteration of Board members.
The Board construction is assessed against experience sets and capabilities necessary to execute the strategy.
As noted in their biographies both Chris Batterham and John Matthews have served as Non-Executive Directors for a period longer than the nine years suggested by the Code.
For reasons of succession and continuity defined elsewhere in this compliance statement they will submit themselves for re-election in 2011.
Both John Matthews and Chris Batterham have relevant knowledge, industry experience and governance insights which enable them to appraise and challenge strategy, direction and resource needs and milestones for effective strategy execution.
44 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 The Board presents its financial and other price sensitive reports in an C. Accountability informative way that meets statutory and other requirements, including C. 1 Financial And Business Reporting those standards set by Financial and Accounting Regulatory bodies and the The Board should present a Stock Exchange.
The Board seeks to present an even handed assessment balanced and understandable of the Groups position and prospects and considers positively the assessment of the companys external environment and emerging standards with regard to disclosure.
A going concern assessment is made and the Directors explain clearly their responsibilities for preparing the accounts in the annual report.
The directors review the full disclosure requirements with external advisors pending release of each annual report.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal The Board has overall responsibility for the financial, operational and Control compliance controls which are designed to meet the requirements The Board is responsible for defined by the risk management process.
In this way there is direct and determining the nature and clear alignment between the control environment and the strategic and extent of the significant risks it operational business priorities.
A risk matrix is prepared and reviewed is willing to take in achieving its formally by the Board and the Audit Committee at least twice a year, with strategic objectives.
The Board the ongoing development of the financial control environment distilled should maintain sound risk into a clear work plan and reviewed at each Audit Committee meeting.
The management and internal Board prioritise control improvement and risk management based on the control systems.
financial impact of a particular risk, the probability of occurrence of that risk and the reputational impact that crystallisation of the risk would cause.
Those issues that have high or medium probability of occurrence and or financial impact are prioritised in the work program.
The Board also seeks to actively consider standards that can be commercially important such as IS0 27001 compliance as part of its process.
Risk management actions and learning are disseminated and cascaded throughout the SDL Group.
The program of site visits continued in 2010, assessing the on the ground state of control and delivery of internal policies following the Chief Financial Officers review in late 2008 and early 2009.
This initiative flows through the operating elements of the business with clear responsibilities for ensuring that appropriate controls are in place at an operational level.
A reporting mechanism to monitor how this initiative is working has also been established.
As required by C. 2.1 of the Code the Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the internal control mechanism and the International Controller presents learnings and findings from the site visit program directly to the Audit Committee.
The external auditors have full access to site visit reports and conclusions.
C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors See also the Audit Committee below on page 49.
A full, formal and The Board should establish transparent process is in place for corporate reporting, risk management formal and transparent and internal control.
Formal auditor independence policies are also in place.
arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Corporate Governance Report continued See also the Directors Remuneration report on page 55 for the Boards D. Remuneration policy and approach to the setting of the remuneration for Directors and D. 1 The Level and Components of senior executives and the activities of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
D. 2 Procedure Executive remuneration is determined by a procedure that requires the There should be a formal and involvement and collective agreement of the Executive Chairman and the transparent procedure for Remuneration Committee.
No Director can be involved in deciding his her developing policy on executive own remuneration and the Non-Executive Directors of the Remuneration remuneration and for fixing Committee have sole responsibility for setting the remuneration of the the remuneration packages of Executive Chairman and Chief Executive.
There was a formal review in individual directors.
No Director 2010 by the Remuneration Committee of Executive Director remuneration should be involved in deciding his packages which was externally facilitated.
The Remuneration Committee has or her own remuneration.
considered in full the implications of this review for 2011 implementation.
See also the Directors Remuneration Report.
46 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 Mark Lancaster and John Hunter meet with both existing and potential E. Relations with Shareholders institutional investors regularly during the financial year and explain the E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders strategy and objectives of the Group and the financial results.
Where There should be a dialogue appropriate the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors also with shareholders based on attend investment conferences and external consultation meetings which the mutual understanding of provide access to multiple investors to understand first-hand the strategy, objectives.
The Board as a whole positioning and progress of the company.
The Board promotes an effective has responsibility for ensuring and open dialogue with shareholders and views this as an effective way to that a satisfactory dialogue with ensure that those representing the shareholders with the majority of shares shareholders takes place.
in SDL can engage directly and make their issues and concerns known.
The Board seeks to respond promptly to shareholder governance enquiries.
Further information relating to the way the dialogue process with shareholders takes place is given later in this report see page 54, Relations with Shareholders.
E. 2 Constructive Use of the AGM The Board ensures that full information is provided to shareholders on the The Board should use the AGM to agenda to be covered at annual meetings of the Group.
The agenda will communicate with investors and always propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue to encourage their participation.
and will always contain a resolution relating to the report and accounts.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and chairpersons of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions.
The company meets the requirements of having the Notice of AGM and related papers sent to shareholders at least 21 days before the AGM.
For the 2011 AGM to facilitate easier voting for our shareholders, we will enable them to vote electronically through our Registrars website.
The outcome of voting is posted on the company website.
Statement of Compliance Throughout 2010 the Company complied with all of the provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 formally the Combined Code with the exception of A.
Given the changes made at the beginning of 2011 when the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer was split, the Company is, at the date of this report fully compliant with the provisions of the Code.
In making this statement the Board acknowledges it is asserting the independence of Chris Batterham and John Matthews who have served as Non-Executive Directors longer than the time suggested by the Code.
The Group also fully complies with the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules on Audit Committees and Corporate Governance Statements DTR 7.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Corporate Governance Report continued Attendance at Meetings Board and Committee meetings The Board had 8 scheduled meetings in 2010 and an additional Board meeting to consider the acquisition of Language Weaver, Inc. making nine meetings in total.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration 9 4 3 6 Number of meetings held: 9 4 3 6 Chris Batterham 7 - 3 - Joe Campbell David Clayton 9 4 - 5 9 4 - 1 John Hunter 7 - - - Cristina Lancaster 9 3 3 1 Mark Lancaster 8 4 3 6 John Matthews 9 4 - 6 Jane Thompson Attendance by invitation The Board and its Committees responsibility of reporting to shareholders.
The NonThe Board Executive directors are fully involved in the validation The Board is responsible to shareholders for setting of the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors strategic direction, effective governance and business and actively test resource requirements and execution management.
The overview biographies of Board capability.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, members appear elsewhere in this report and the all directors receive appropriate and timely information responsibilities of the Directors with respect to the with briefing papers distributed, wherever possible, accounts are included on page 69 with a further prior to the meeting.
The Chairman ensures that, as statement on Directors responsibilities to the auditors and when required, the Executive and Non-Executive on page 68 and a going concern statement on page directors are able to take independent professional 38.
David Clayton will replace John Matthews as Senior advice at the Groups expense.
Independent Director in Q1 2011 and is the person to All Executive Directors of the Board are subject to whom any concerns regarding Board matters, whether contracts in which notice periods are of no more than shareholder or other concerns, can be addressed.
This ensures that performance of The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically Board members can be kept under ongoing review reserved to it for decision.
A copy of this schedule and changes can be immediately made without is available from the Company Secretary and is also onerous cost if issues arise.
Contracts of employment of set out on the Groups website.
All Directors have individual Board members are available for inspection appropriate access to the advice and services of the on request.
Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board At the end of the year the Board conducted a review for ensuring that procedures are followed and that of its effectiveness under the leadership of Chris applicable rules and regulations are complied with and Batterham.
The matters raised by this review are that Board discussions have effective minutes taken with discussed more fully in the compliance section above.
formal records kept of Board discussions.
The Company seeks to ensure that the Directors receive appropriate Indemnification of directors training covering such things as their legal obligations As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force as directors and compliance with Stock Exchange Rules.
under which the company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the On average the Board meets at least every other month, companys articles of association, in respect of all losses reviewing strategic issues, acquisition possibilities, arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of funding requirements, trading performance, any their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of compliance matters that need decision and the the company or any of its subsidiaries.
48 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 The Board has established an effective committee Copies of the Terms of Reference are available, on structure to assist in the management of specific request, from the Company Secretary and are also on aspects of the Groups affairs: the Groups website in the Investor Relations section.
Remuneration Committee Further details of the Groups policies on remuneration, For the year ending 31 December 2010 the Remuneration service contracts and compensation payments are Committee comprised Jane Thompson Chair, David given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages Clayton, Chris Batterham and John Matthews.
The future 55 to 62. structure of this Committee is discussed in section B.
Audit Committee of the Compliance Statement above.
Executive Directors The objective of the Audit Committee is to promote and attend Remuneration Committee meetings at the maintain high standards of corporate and regulatory invitation of the Committee Chairman.
reporting, risk management and compliance as The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making effectiveness in these areas enhances the performance recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms and reduces the risks of the business.
of reference which are on the Groups website, on The Audit Committee comprised David Clayton Chair, the Groups framework of executive remuneration and Jane Thompson, Chris Batterham and John Matthews.
Annually the Committee reviews the contract The Chairman, David Clayton, as Group Director of terms, remuneration and other benefits for each of the Strategy and Corporate Development for Sage Plc.
Executive Directors, including performance related, has considerable recent and relevant experience.
Each pension rights and compensation payments.
The Board of the other directors on the Committee has, through itself determines the remuneration of the Non-Executive their other business activities, significant experience in Directors, and also has responsibility for electing financial matters.
John Matthews and Chris Batterham persons to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee both meet the relevant accounting requirements does not have authority to employ or dismiss directors.
Executive directors, senior During 2010 the Committee met six times.
The major members of management and advisors are invited to activities during the year were: attend meetings as appropriate.
The future shape and the review and proposal of a new share option structure of the Audit Committee is discussed in B.
1. of scheme SDL Share Option Scheme 2010 the compliance statement.
which complies with the guidelines issued by the The Committee has a formalised structure of Association of British Insurers.
The scheme was reporting by the Group Auditors which allows for approved by shareholders at the AGM in April 2010. it to independently assess the quality of financial a review of the operation of the SDL plc 2006 Longreporting and representations made in the accounts.
Term Incentive Plan and the current alternatives in The Committee reviews the quality and make-up of conjunction with external remuneration advisers.
the Groups internal finance function and the control This plan was due to expire on 27 April 2011. environment.
The control environment reviews include Following this review the Committee has concluded the Chief Financial Officer, International Controller and that the 2006 plan has proved successful both senior members of the Group finance function reporting as a genuine incentive to key senior executives formally to the Committee on the completion of the including Executive Directors and as a retention comprehensive program of control work initiated by the tool.
As a consequence, the Committee has, subject Chief Financial Officer.
This includes reporting on site to shareholder approval, decided that the 2006 visit outcomes which enables the Committee to formally plan should be replaced with a broadly similar plan assess whether control programs are delivering.
to be known as the SDL Long Term Share Incentive The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a Plan 2011 the 2011 Plan.
The proposed 2011 wide range of matters including the half-year and Plan will be updated to reflect current law and annual accounts, and monitoring the controls that market practice and still deploy relative TSR and are in force to ensure the integrity of the information an EPS underpin as performance measures.
The Committee also exercises proposal of a new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP oversight of the financial statements, policies and and approval for the new LTIP rules will be sought judgements.
The Audit Committee considers the from shareholders at the AGM in 2011. nature, scope, results and costs of the audit as well Remuneration Review for Executive Directors.
as the resources deployed and the conduct of the Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Corporate Governance Report continued audit.
The Audit Committee keeps under review the The Committee also reviews the whistle blowing cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity policy where staff may raise concerns about possible of the external auditors and has adopted a formal improprieties in financial reporting, fraud or other written process in this regard.
Non-audit services matters of concern.
above 20,000 are sanctioned formally by the Audit Copies of the Terms of Reference are available, on Committee evaluating the nature of the work and request, from the Company Secretary and on the fees involved and the materiality of the fees.
Expertise Groups website in the Investor Relations section.
being provided is very closely monitored as are any transactional supply relationships between the Group Nomination Committee and the Auditors.
The Nomination Committee was chaired by the Executive Chairman in 2010, with its other members The Audit Committee met four times during 2010. being Non-Executive Directors, John Matthews, Chris Matters considered by the Committee included the Batterham and Joe Campbell.
The Terms of Reference internal control program and its execution: resource of the Committee require that they meet at least requirements for the Group Finance function: the once a year in order to review the current structure implications on financial reporting of changes in of the Board, its ongoing relevance to the nature of International Financial Reporting Standards made the business, potential new Board appointments, during the year: the integration requirements of including any proposed by the Executive Directors, the Language Weaver acquisition together with the and the matter of senior succession planning.
opening balance sheet positions for this acquisition Recommendations from the Committee are made to and subsequent control and reporting: the ongoing the Board and the Committee met three times in 2010 review of key risks affecting the Group: the assessment considering among other matters detailed options for of the effectiveness of internal controls and the detailed the Board appointment of a new Chief Executive in execution plans for the 2010 audit given the recent early 2011 and succession planning at a senior level in appointment of KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
The future shape and structure of the Committee agreed a strengthening of on-the-ground Nomination Committee is discussed in section B.
1 of the external audit resources in North America.
the Group Finance function continued the formal program of financial audits of the Groups separate Copies of the Terms of Reference are available, on finance departments in several countries which had request, from the Company Secretary and on the been initiated in 2009.
The results of these audits Groups website in the Investor Relations section.
were reported formally to the Audit Committee given the absence of a separate internal audit function and Internal Control and Risk Management they are proving effective in highlighting the detailed The board acknowledges that there are a number of risk operation of controls across the units within the Group.
factors that could have an adverse financial impact on The majority of the local finance departments are the company and reduce shareholder return.
No risk relatively small and self-contained.
As a consequence management process can eliminate risk but mitigating the Board and the Audit Committee currently do not strategies, when effectively deployed, can significantly believe there is a requirement for a separate internal reduce risk of occurrence and can ensure that if risks audit function but has sponsored a significant program do occur they are effectively managed and that effects of internal control work following further strengthening are reduced as much as possible.
The Board believes of the Group Finance Function.
The requirement for a that operational continuity is a primary driver in any separate internal audit function is kept under annual risk management process and must be prioritised at all review by the Audit Committee.
Whilst there may be risks that we do not consider to be serious or which are currently unknown the Board Following a rigorous tender process, the Committee has, where reasonably possible, taken steps to mitigate made a recommendation to the Board to appoint, risks or potential risks of which the SDL Group is aware.
subject to shareholder approval, KPMG as external Group Auditors.
KPMG were appointed with immediate The Board has a formal risk matrix that is reviewed at effect at the AGM on 23 April 2010.
The tender and least twice a year by the Board and Audit Committee.
subsequent appointment follows the review of auditor These risks are ranked according to probability of independence, in line with policy, at the point of occurrence, financial impact and reputational impact annual re-appointment.
should they occur and they then cascade down into 50 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 mitigating actions that are fully absorbed into business reviewed, negotiated and approved in line with operating processes for execution.
Some of the more internal processes that have full frameworks in place for significant risks and the associated mitigation plans are appropriate referral to senior management.
discussed in more detail below: Acquisitions: Management of succession and transition In the future the Group may decide to acquire new processes, and Group key talent management businesses or companies.
Any given acquisition will and succession planning: entail costs whilst also having the potential to increase The explicit risk here is that the Group does not the profitability of the Group.
Although in depth due have consistency of high performing leadership, has diligence would be carried out by the Group and, as inadequately trained staff or experiences employee appropriate, its advisors prior to undertaking such attrition that prevents delivery of strategic business a transaction, an acquisition could have a negative objectives.
The Group endeavours to provide effect on the profits of the Group in the event that a competitive remuneration structures, including where target acquired could not be successfully integrated relevant bonus and long term incentives, and ensures into the Group or failed to deliver its strategic and that there are open and transparent performance financial objectives.
To mitigate this risk all acquisitions assessments, development plans and promotion have board level sign off and the early preparation of opportunities that encourage employees to want to detailed integration plans and in depth assessment to a build long term careers with SDL.
In 2010 capability developed checklist is an integral part of the acquisition was again strengthened at Executive team level with the process, as is detailed interaction with the management appointment of a new Chief Technology Officer and and principals of the target company.
In 2010 the Chief Information Officer.
Group developed and executed rapid integration plans for Language Weaver and Xopus.
System interruption and business continuity planning and policies for dealing with Counterparty Risk: business interruption: The principal risk here is to RBS.
The mitigating strategy The risk here is of a significant unplanned outage that for this risk is covered in the Financial Review on page causes a major business continuity issue.
focuses here on business continuity planning and Interest Rate Risk: security of its data centre and hosting facilities.
Business This risk is covered on page 37 in the Financial Review continuity planning embraces home working options for those that can work from home and considers alternative Liquidity Risk: and distributed locations in the event that a significant The risk here is that the Groups cash reserves and office is taken out of operation.
There is strong emphasis working capital are not sufficient to repay debts as they and focus in business continuity plans on how to fall due.
However, the Group is highly cash generative restore normal operations as quickly as possible.
and the methodology for dealing with liquidity risk through strong generation of free cash flow is dealt Data protection, data loss and data security: with on page 37 in the Financial Review.
For the past The explicit risk here is loss of data or leak of critical two years the Board has placed strong emphasis on data.
In 2010 we initiated a number of compliance effective credit control which is effectively linked to reviews around data security and we are fully business operations as a key mitigating factor.
This has embracing ISO 27001 compliance which will be an been highly effective.
excellent program for the business.
The business has established appropriate back up routines.
HR policies Foreign Exchange risk: also explicitly prohibit misappropriation of data for The detailed strategy for managing foreign currency personal gain and confidentiality breaches.
risk is covered on page 37 in the Financial Review.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to Contract Management and Litigation Control: foreign currency risk on transactions denominated in a The Group is exposed to contractual risk under its currency other than the functional currency and on the contracts with its customers and suppliers but it translation of the balance sheet and income statement endeavours to ensure that it has processes in place to of foreign operations into Sterling.
The currencies reduce these risks.
In 2010 the Group recruited a Group giving rise to this risk are primarily US Dollars, Euros Procurement Manager and the Group Legal function and Japanese Yen.
The Group has both cash inflows ensures that customer contracts are carefully prepared, and outflows in these currencies that create a level of Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Corporate Governance Report continued natural hedge.
In managing currency risks, the Group Capability was strengthened at Executive team level aims to reduce the impact of short-term fluctuations with the appointment of a new Chief Technology on the Groups cash inflows and outflows in a foreign Officer and Chief Information Officer currency.
The Group has not entered into hedging We initiated a number of compliance reviews contracts for either cash or net investment positions around data security and we are fully embracing denominated in foreign currencies.
Over the longer ISO 27001 compliance which will be an excellent term permanent changes in foreign exchange would program for the business have an impact on consolidated earnings.
We reviewed and updated our Code of Conduct to Compliance Risk: embrace best practice and we have a full roll out The cost of compliance by the Group to changes planned in 2011 linked directly into our knowledge in laws or regulations by governments and other series initiative which is designed to give all regulatory authorities in the countries in which it employees deep understanding of the SDL Group, does business, such as for example anti-bribery its business and its processes and corruption, environmental or data protection legislation, could have an adverse financial effect on We developed rapid integration plans for Language the business, as could prosecution of the Group for Weaver and Xopus and executed these effectively any alleged breaches of such laws or regulations due We continued to focus on credit control and had to the potential resulting defence costs and penalties no significant issues during the economic cycle and involved.
The Group endeavours to comply with any have effectively maintained our receivables profile such changes with the help of its financial and legal advisors where necessary and places strong emphasis We have a well integrated and structured innovation on having the right organisational structures necessary roadmap and stringent delivery checkpoints to deliver compliance.
The Group believes that setting The Board believes that by managing risk in a dynamic appropriate standards of behaviour is essential to way which is truly embedded into our operations we compliance.
To this end in 2010 we reviewed and can provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance updated our Code of Conduct to embrace best practice against material misstatement or loss.
We can also be and we have a full roll out planned in 2011 linked reasonably confident that we can manage risk in a way directly into our knowledge series initiative which is that an occurring risk will not detract from delivery of designed to give all employees deep understanding our critical strategic objectives.
We are committed to of the SDL Group, its business and its processes.
The continuous improvement and development of our risk updated Code of Conduct considers and responds to management processes.
matters raised in the UK Bribery Act.
The Board discharges its risk management processes Maintaining Technology Leadership and through a coherent structure as follows: Intellectual Property Matters: The risk here is that the Group fails to develop products Management Structure to keep up with current market trends or is exposed There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for to intellectual property dispute.
To mitigate this risk decision by the Board: a formal schedule of these is the Group invests in research and development and on the companys website.
Executive directors have has well integrated and planned innovation roadmaps responsibility for specific parts of the Groups affairs and stringent delivery checkpoints.
The Group has and these are clearly defined.
There is a formal Executive also engaged third party intellectual property counsel Committee consisting of the Chief Executive CEO, to ensure that its intellectual property rights are the Chief Financial Officer CFO, business segment appropriately protected by law.
CEOs, the Chief Technology Officer CTO and the Chief Information Officer CIO which meets regularly to 2010 Risk Management Actions: discuss strategic and operational matters and associated This targeted assessment of risk has proved highly effective risks to delivery of strategy.
in design of risk management and control programs and has led to organisational and operational conclusions.
The Group also has formal structures in place in the As examples some actions taken in 2010 which respond Finance and Legal functions.
directly to the risks above were the following: 52 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 There is a formal system of accounting policies in Identification and Control of Risk place that are compliance validated in site visits and The Executive Directors are directly involved in available to all in the finance function for common management of risk and effective systems are in place application.
These policies are rolled out through to identify operational risk.
These systems depend on formal communication sessions robust and stable operating procedures which are well disseminated and understood by all involved.
There is There is a full system of key account management formal and effective control over the following decision teams in place parameters by the Executive Directors.
These controls, checks and balances provide strong There are delegated expenditure controls in operational linkage to risk management processes.
place on both financial quantum and duration of Formal Risk Control Process commitment that require sign off at various levels in As outlined above the Board has a formal risk the organisation including the CEO and CFO.
These management process that produces a risk matrix which cover both operating and capital expenditure prioritises risk according to probability of occurrence, There is a system of reserved powers where matters financial impact and reputational impact.
This cannot be decided at operating segment level and effectively prioritises risk management actions.
must be referred to Group Executive Management Quality and Integrity of Personnel Payment processes are appropriately controlled and There has been considerable strengthening of the segregation of duty is prioritised so that excessive Executive team in 2010 with the appointment of a concentration of authority does not reside in any new CIO and CTO.
The hiring process uses an inone individual house recruitment professional and all key strategic hires are carefully profiled against clearly established All acquisition related decisions are confined competency and skill set needs.
to the Board and must be referred to the Executive Chairman, CEO, and CFO by operating Budget Process segment management The Group produces carefully considered budgets for each operating segment of its business where There is appropriate and regular cascade of relevant key actions to enable delivery are clearly defined and information to employees which is logically prioritised.
Resource implications of the budgets are cascaded via leadership.
The CEO personally also carefully considered so that expenditures can be gives monthly updates on business performance differentially managed and effectively targeted towards to approximately 230 managers for cascade.
Group functional plans are also in place A comprehensive knowledge series initiative has that must clearly link to operational priorities.
This also been developed that informs employees cohesive planning process gives a clear view of both about group processes as well as fundamental key deliverables but also critical dependencies that span information about SDL and its businesses across functions or operating segments, maximising All property decisions, whether lease or purchase collaboration in delivery.
There are several checkpoint require group approval meetings that take place to monitor and track delivery: one such meeting is the internal GAP meeting, which All technology roadmap decisions require focuses on sales execution and pipeline and gives early group approval warning of any issue or plan delivery problem.
There are salary frameworks and hiring approval Investment Appraisal and Acquisition Integration frameworks in place There are careful controls over all strategic investments, There are established protocols for contract sign whether they are capital investments or acquisition.
off and execution and a formal set of acceptable All acquisitions must undergo formal due diligence conditions in place for legal contract sign off that investigation including financial, legal, taxation and target liability mitigation operational aspects.
In recent acquisitions there has also been significant emphasis on IP assessment around Formal segmental management teams are in place the underlying strength of acquired technologies and that are complementary to the Group Executive their scalability.
All acquisitions must have detailed Team who control operational execution and integration plans and be approved by the SDL Board collaboration across the Group having understood delivery risks.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Directors and Corporate Governance 8 Corporate Governance Report continued interest.
John Hunter and Mark Lancaster have also Controls over Financial Reporting attended numerous investor days and conferences in The operational process for control over financial 2010 in both London and overseas.
These conferences reporting is led by the Chief Financial Officer, who are a good mechanism to reach potential new investors works through the Finance Leadership Team to and broaden the shareholder base.
ensure there are a full suite of policies and procedures in place that are effectively communicated and The Board looks to use the Annual General Meeting disseminated to the operating units in SDL.
Compliance to communicate with private as well as institutional is monitored actively via site visits and the frameworks investors and welcomes broad participation in this are controlled and reviewed each year to generate meeting.
The chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration progressive tightening and continuous improvement Committees attend the Annual General Meetings to and to respond to any risk management priorities or answer questions.
In addition, the Senior Independent emerging standards.
Full audit packages are produced Director is accessible to shareholders to discuss matters for each operating unit which comprehensively explain of concern.
delivered results and these are quality reviewed by To the directors knowledge there are no shareholders the International Controllers team.
There is full and holding more than 17% of voting rights in the Group.
transparent reporting to the Audit Committee of control It is also confirmed that no provision exists in the program findings and reporting here is fully at the Articles of Association that gives any shareholder the direction of the Audit Committee according to its needs.
right to designate directors to the Board.
Investor Relations The Company aims to be open and transparent in communicating its business strategies and performance, promoting credibility and confidence amongst all the Companys stakeholders.
The Operating and Financial Review on pages 30 to 38 includes a detailed review of the business and the results for 2010, current industry trends and future developments.
Our reputational impact depends on transparent and comprehensive dialogue with investors.
There is regular, proactive dialogue with existing and potential shareholders, financial and industry analysts and the press.
The Board considers constructive and broad engagement with the shareholder base and third party commentators to be a critical element within its communication strategy.
The dialogue occurs in a scheduled way at the announcement of the half and full year results and when required if acquisitions are made.
The Board has made considerable effort in completing numerous city days in 2010 and views shareholder communication as particularly important as SDL evolves its end-to-end content management solutions and as the global economy continues to carry elements of uncertainty.
Targeted communication programs are suggested by the Groups financial and public relations advisors.
The outcome of any shareholder or external stakeholder dialogue, including with governance institutions, is communicated to the Board in order to enable a broad understanding of the views of major shareholders and external commentators about the Group.
This reporting also serves to highlight current matters of shareholder 54
