Corporate Governance Report This Corporate Governance Report describes the manner in which There is a procedure by which all Directors can obtain independent the Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance professional advice at the Companys expense in furtherance of set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate their duties, if required.
Nominations Committee Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board The Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out appointments, and supervises management development and in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and re-appointments.
The Application of the Principles of the Combined Code Committee, which consists entirely of non-executive Directors, is The Principles of Good Corporate Governance are detailed in the chaired by Martin Clark, and its composition is shown on page 31.
Combined Code under four areas.
These have each been reviewed Its Terms of Reference may be found on the Companys website.
by the Directors and are commented upon below: The appointment of new Directors to the Board is controlled by a Directors the Committee, assisted by an appropriate external recruitment The Board is structured under a non-executive Chairman, consultant.
In conjunction with the external consultant, and includes two executive Directors, and three independent consideration is given to the role and the capabilities required for non-executive Directors, who were selected for appointment a particular appointment.
Based on agreed criteria, the consultant because of their wide industrial and commercial experience.
In then produces a shortlist of candidates.
Members of the Committee addition, there is an Executive Committee, chaired by the Group interview the shortlisted candidates, and then present their Chief Executive, comprising the executive Directors and other key recommendation to the Board.
When appointing non-executive executives within the Group.
Brief details of the Board and of the Directors, consideration is also given to the number of other posts key Executive Committee members are included on page 31. held by the candidates, and their ability to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties as a non-executive Director.
The Directors consider that there is in place an effective Board which leads and controls the Group, with clear divisions of During the year, the Board undertook a formal review to evaluate responsibility between the running of the Board and the running its own performance, and that of its Committees and individual of the Groups businesses.
Directors: this process involved the completion and review of performance assessment questionnaires and appraisal interviews.
The Board is responsible for strategic decisions affecting the Group, The results of the evaluation process are used to improve Board including the setting of commercial strategy and the approval of performance and to determine the training needs of the Directors.
Group budgets and financial statements.
It also approves significant Ian Much, in consultation with the Directors, undertook an financial and contractual commitments made by the Group.
The evaluation of the Chairmans performance, and concluded that Boards Terms of Reference more fully describe the responsibilities Martin Clark provided effective leadership of the Board.
Based on of the Board, and may be found on the Companys website.
the results of the performance evaluation process, the Chairman considers that all members of the Board, the Board collectively, The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Audit, and its Committees, continue to contribute effectively to the running Remuneration, Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environment of the Company.
The Group Chief Executive, together with the Executive Committee, is responsible for the implementation There were no new appointments to the Board in 2010.
Michael of the decisions made by the Board, and for the day-to-day conduct Steel has indicated that he wishes to retire from the Board at the of the Groups operations.
Annual General Meeting 2011 and the Nominations Committee has commenced the process to appoint two new non-executive The Board meets formally on a regular basis nine times in 2010 : in Directors.
The Board is to adopt the New Codes provision relating addition there were three meetings of the Audit Committee in 2010, to the annual re-election of Directors for the Annual General together with six meetings of the Remuneration Committee, one Meeting 2011 and David Best, Martin Clark, Simon Nicholls, meeting of the Nominations Committee and four meetings of the Ian Much and Mark Rollins will all stand for re-election at HSE Committee.
There was full attendance at every Board meeting the AGM.
and Committee of the Board during the year with the exception noted on page 31.
Other committees are appointed by the Board to deal with treasury matters and specific issues such as acquisitions and disposals.
The minutes arising from all Committee meetings are available to the Board.
Procedures are in place to ensure that the Directors are properly briefed, so that decisions taken by the Board are based on the fullest available information.
At every Board meeting there are reviews of operational, financial and administrative matters.
Group strategy, and health, safety and environmental performance are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis.
Social and ethical issues, the agreement of budgets and levels of insurance cover are reviewed whenever appropriate.
34 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information b Directors remuneration The Company makes constructive use of its Annual General The Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 45 describes the Boards Meeting to communicate with private investors.
A presentation approach to remuneration matters.
of the Companys performance is given at the AGM, and a copy of the presentation, along with other investor relations material, c Accountability and audit is available on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee Report on pages 36 and 37 describes the role and activities of the Audit Committee and its relationship with the All resolutions put to shareholders at the AGM 2010 were passed internal and external auditor.
Details of the proxy voting received by the Company for the AGM 2010 resolutions are set out in the table The Company has a whistle-blowing policy that is communicated below.
The total number of proxy votes received for the AGM 2010 throughout the Group.
This policy provides employees with represented approximately 66.8% 2009 66.2% of the issued the opportunity to report unethical or illegal corporate conduct.
share capital of the Company.
Ian Much is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
His position provides employees with an alternative channel of The Company is supportive of initiatives to promote greater communication to resolve issues if they have a concern that the shareholder participation and offers CREST members the facility Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director have to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy failed to resolve these, or where such contact with them is not appointment service.
Further details of this service may be found appropriate.
The Groups ethical procedures and Code of Business in the proxy form.
Conduct have been reviewed in light of the potential impact of the Bribery Act 2010 and enhancements planned as appropriate.
d Relations with shareholders The Company maintains regular contact with its institutional shareholders.
At least twice a year, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director undertake a series of meetings with the Companys major shareholders, following the announcement of the preliminary full-year and interim results, to discuss both strategic objectives and the detailed performance of the business.
During 2010, the Companys non-executive Chairman also attended the preliminary full-year and interim results announcement presentations to analysts, in March and August respectively.
No shareholders requested a meeting with any non-executive Directors during the year.
The Senior Independent Director is available to attend shareholder meetings, if this is requested by shareholders, so providing an alternative channel of communication between the Company and its shareholders.
Proxy voting for the AGM 2010 resolutions 1 For Against Discretionary Abstentions Total Resolution votes votes votes votes votes 1.
To adopt New Articles of Association 259,325,482 229,562 115,781 7,115,818 266,786,643 1 The total issued share capital as at 1 March 2010 the date of the Notice of the AGM 2010, was 399.7 million ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35
