Section 4 Corporate Governance Report Introduction In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance processes is the Business Conduct and Ethics Standard that the Company and Group have adopted.
Throughout 2010 Serco Group plc complied fully with the provisions of Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The paragraphs below, together with the Our performance section on pages 16 to 79 and the Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 103, provide details of how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council published a new code, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code which replaces the Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The FRC has stated that changes have been made to help company boards to become more effective and more accountable to shareholders.
In light of the Governance Code we are reviewing and will introduce additional elements of governance and internal control processes as appropriate.
For example, the Board has decided that all Directors should stand for re-election on an annual basis, commencing at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2011.
The Board of Directors Board composition Currently the Board has six members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Two Non-Executive Directors retired at the end of 2010: as at the date of this report one new Non-Executive Director has been appointed and an externally-led recruitment process is ongoing for at least one other.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
Each Director brings a valuable range of experience and expertise to the Board.
The proles of all Directors can be found on pages 90 and 91.
The role of the Board The Board has responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy and for ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken promptly.
Reporting to the Board, the Governance function is tasked by the Group to develop and oversee corporate processes for the identication and management of business risks and the appropriate application of the Serco Management System SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the Group.
The Our performance section on pages 16 to 79 details the internal control and risk policies, procedures and management framework adopted by the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Review is available online at www.
com and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Conicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders at the Companys 2010 annual general meeting, include provisions reecting recommended practice concerning conicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conict or potential conict of interest only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision: in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conicts or potential conicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a Register of Directors Conicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Reserved and delegated authorities There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: O Group strategy O Annual financial and operating plans O Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments O Annual and half-year financial results O Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information O Dividend policy O Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management and appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and Committee members O Treasury policy O Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management process O Training and development of the Board and the Company Secretary.
Other specic responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly dened terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 83 and 84.
80 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Information oZ Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings at which they make presentations on the results and strategies of their divisional units and functional areas of the Group.
Board members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board meeting and each Committee meeting, as appropriate.
Historically, Board meetings have been held four times a year over two days at a time: from 2011 onwards an additional two Board meetings will be held for one day each which will focus on strategy development for both the Group and individual divisions.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk management of the Group.
Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are scheduled as required.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings held during the year is shown in the table on page 82.
Company Secretary and independent advice The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring both that all Board procedures are followed and good information ow and facilitating induction programmes for Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, Alastair Lyons is responsible for: O Ensuring the effectiveness and successful operation of the Board, its agenda and processes O Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring appropriate communication with shareholders on these standards and the Groups overall performance O Ensuring appropriate Director training and development takes place O Board succession planning.
The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, is responsible for: O The formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy O Delivery of the Groups business plan O Providing motivation and leadership to the operating divisions, chairing the Executive Committee and setting its style and tone O Setting the overall policy and direction of Sercos business operations, investments and other activities within a framework of prudent and effective risk management and ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks satisfactorily O Providing leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Senior Independent Director Following the retirement of Margaret Ford, who served as Senior Independent Director throughout 2010, David Richardson was appointed to that role in January 2011.
As part of this role, David is available to shareholders if they have any issues or wish to discuss any aspects of the Companys business without the Executive Directors or Chairman present.
External directorships for Executive Directors The Board considers that Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not compromise the effective management of the Group and that these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 96. significant other commitments of the Chairman Alastair Lyons is non-executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Bovis Homes Group PLC, Senior Independent Director of Phoenix Group Holdings, and a non-executive director of the Towergate Insurance Group.
The Board believes that Alastair holds a well-balanced portfolio of positions which allow him to perform his duties as Chairman appropriately.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each Director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
In accordance with provisions contained within the Governance Code and applying to the Company from 2011, all Directors will be retiring and standing for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Furthermore, all Directors standing for re-election will do so on an annual basis at each subsequent annual general meeting.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 81 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 4 Corporate Governance Report The Non-Executive Directors Independence All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Term of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as Non-Executive Directors being undertaken if they are to remain on the Board for more than nine years.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 97 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Meetings of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
This took place in 2010 in respect of Kevin Beestons tenure as Chairman of the Company.
The performance of the current Chairman will be assessed on completion of his first year in position in 2011.
Board meetings and attendance From 2011 the Board will hold its meetings on a bi-monthly basis with ad hoc meetings in between if required.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2010 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 5 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings Kevin Beeston 2 2 n a n a - 1 Alastair Lyons 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Tom Corcoran 5 3 3 2 Christopher Hyman 5 n a n a n a Andrew Jenner 5 n a n a n a Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 5 3 4 2 Margaret Ford 5 3 4 2 David Richardson 5 3 4 2 Notes: 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Where a number is given in brackets against a Directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
Board effectiveness Induction On joining the Board, Directors are given background information describing the Company and its activities.
They receive an induction pack which includes information on all the governance processes of the Group, the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees and other management teams and a range of other appropriate information about the Group, its activities and its advisors.
Meetings are arranged with a range of key people from across the Group on a structured basis to assist with a Directors induction.
Visits are also arranged, where possible, to a number of contracts around the country.
In 2010 Alastair Lyons completed an exceptionally thorough programme of meetings and site visits, both in the UK and overseas, meeting management and employees of the Group as well as other key external stakeholders such as the external auditors and Company brokers.
Continued professional development During 2010 the Board members were all engaged in a range of training and professional development activities.
In October 2010, the Audit Committee attended an internal workshop to gain an in depth understanding of the Group-wide Internal Audit approach, its effectiveness and relationship with the wider governance framework including the SMS and Risk Management methodology.
The Board considers the training needs of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors plus the Company Secretary.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The development needs of the Directors and the Company Secretary fall within the remit of the Chairman who reviews and agrees these individually.
82 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Performance evaluation The Group recognises the importance of a comprehensive evaluation process for the Board and ensures that comments and recommendations are considered carefully and implemented where appropriate to ensure its continued development.
A formal evaluation has been undertaken of the performance of the Board and its Committees during 2010.
The evaluation was performed in November 2010 by all Directors through the completion of an evaluation questionnaire followed by one-to-one meetings as appropriate.
Matters covered by the Board questionnaire included: the effectiveness and frequency of board meetings: risk and risk management: Group strategy: the structure and composition of the Board including diversity and the skill-set and experience of its members: stakeholder engagement: and a traditional analysis of its strengths, weakness, opportunities and threats.
There was general agreement that, overall, the Board and its Committees continued to operate effectively throughout the period.
It was noted that the Board was in a transitional period, both in terms of being led by a new Chairman and the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors following retirements, and the effective induction and integration of the latter were cited as key determinants of the continuing successful operation of the Board.
The Directors continue to believe the openness and experience of the Board members are key strengths.
Directors feel well informed and believe that key issues such as risk and strategy are very well managed within rigorous processes, with sufficient opportunity for challenge and debate.
The increased number of Board meetings proposed from 2011 onwards was noted as a development that would further strengthen the robustness of the Companys stewardship and deepen the understanding by, and communication between, Board members.
The gender imbalance of the Board, following the retirement of Margaret Ford, was noted as part of the evaluation.
The Board is fully supportive of the emphasis placed on diversity, in particular gender diversity, within the Governance Code and this is a focus in the current recruitment of Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
The use of an external facilitator was considered for the evaluation of the Board and all its Committees.
However, as the Board had undergone a number of changes during 2010 it was considered to be more appropriate to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation in 2011.
Further, it is the Boards intention to comply with the requirements of the Governance Code and carry out such an external evaluation at least once every three years.
In addition, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views of both the Non-Executive and Executive Directors was carried out during the year for Kevin Beeston and will be for the new Chairman, Alastair Lyons, during 2011.
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for all Committees are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board to ensure they are still appropriate and reect any changes in good practice and governance: these are available online at www.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Audit Committee and Audit Committee Report Membership: The Audit Committee consists solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David Richardson and comprises Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and, since February 2011, Paul Brooks.
Margaret Ford and Tom Corcoran served on the Committee throughout 2010.
The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant experience for this role.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups internal audit providers, and Deloitte LLP the external auditor attend meetings.
The Committee meets with each of the internal auditors, external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit separately at least once a year.
All Directors have access to the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings.
Responsibilities: The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: O To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including interim management statements, and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them O To monitor and review the internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing with the Company O To review managements and the internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management O To consider the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and assess independence and objectivity of the external auditor, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into account O To recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity O To discuss with the external auditor, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements O To oversee the process for selecting the external auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting.
Additionally, in accordance with the Combined Code, the Committee is responsible for a formal whistle-blowing policy and procedure which applies throughout the Group.
Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been delegated to the Company Secretary.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 83 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Section 4 Corporate Governance Report Members of the Audit Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting practice on a quarterly basis as part of the Finance Directors report to the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis from the external auditor.
During 2010 the Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the following: O Corporate Governance Report and statement of Directors Responsibilities for inclusion in the 2009 Annual Review and Accounts O 2010 Half-year Report and Auditors report thereon O 2010 external audit fees O Review of and enhancement to the whistle-blowing process O Assessment of the Audit Committee O 2010 internal audit programme and the proposed 2011 programme O The continuing independence of the external auditor.
Non-audit services: The Committee has reconrmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company, and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
Auditors independence: The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years.
As such the 2010 audit will be the first of Richard Knights tenure following his appointment to the role at the end of Nigel Mercers in 2010.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor.
The Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2011 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed to shareholders.
The Nomination Committee Membership: The Nomination Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and comprises David Richardson, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and Paul Brooks.
The Committee met twice during 2010.
Margaret Ford and Tom Corcoran served on the Committee throughout 2010 and Kevin Beeston was also a member during his tenure in 2010.
Responsibilities: Matters considered during the year included succession and contingency planning, Board structure and composition and the appointment of successors to Kevin Beeston, Margaret Ford and Tom Corcoran.
The Committee has responsibility for the identication and nomination, for the approval of the Board, of candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise, engaging external search consultants as and when necessary.
The Nominations Committee completed a robust tender process which resulted in relevant rms of external executive search consultants being engaged for the appointment of the new Chairman and new Non-Executive Directors.
In consultation with the chosen search consultants, specications were drawn up of the roles and attributes were identied that were felt to be essential for their effective performance, including what would be considered acceptable in terms of time commitment.
The Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 92 to 103.
Executive Committees Throughout 2010, a new Executive Committee has operated, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises 11 other members, including the Group Finance Director, Regional Chief Executives and other selected Corporate function heads.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board to ensure the effective direction and control of the business and to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and goals.
The Committee met ten times during the year to review the Groups activities and discuss management and operational issues.
Representatives from across the Serco business were invited to the meetings, as appropriate, to discuss aspects of their business or give presentations on specic topics.
Relationship with shareholders The Companys relationship with shareholders is given a high priority.
The Annual report and accounts is available to all shareholders both in hard copy and online at www.
We no longer produce a printed report of our half-year results.
Instead, a letter summarising these results is issued to shareholders and a copy of the full stock exchange announcement is available on request.
Regular trading updates are published ahead of close periods and before the annual general meeting by press release.
In addition, press releases and stock exchange announcements are made regarding significant contracts or transactions.
All trading announcements are also posted on the Groups website www.
84 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG Annual general meeting Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the annual general meeting to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the various Board Committees and other Directors.
Details of the meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting which is sent to shareholders and which contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes.
For the first time, in 2010 shareholders attending the AGM were invited to vote by means of a poll.
A poll reects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
Such poll voting will again take place at the 2011 AGM.
Shareholders are advised of the total number of votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
Institutional investors The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular dialogue with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets with institutional investors from time to time as appropriate.
The Companys investor relations programme and day-to-day activities are managed by the Head of Investor Relations.
As part of the role of Senior Independent Director, David Richardson is also available to meet shareholders, as Margaret Ford was throughout her tenure, should it be required.
The Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting.
This reviews share price movements and valuation, changes in the share register, the Companys recent and planned investor relations activities, communication with shareholders, analyst recommendations and significant news from the market and support services sector.
The report ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of the Companys investor relations performance.
Group website The Group website www.
com is a primary source of information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for investors, including information such as an archive of all reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees, the Corporate Responsibility Review, and information on voting at the annual general meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
Business conduct Serco Group operates within a management system that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business divisions, operating companies and business units throughout the world.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to Directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company the Group has an ethics consultation process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
To support this process an Ethics Committee, comprising members of the executive team with a quorum of three and chaired by the Marketing Director, meets as required, usually monthly.
As the leadership of the Company, the executive team will make any ne judgements about what it considers acceptable or otherwise.
In 2010 Serco undertook a review of its whistle-blowing service and introduced a new, outsourced, Ethics Hotline for employees to report any concerns they may have, or report any wrongdoing, that they do not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the Hotline, which is available toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary investigates independently any issues raised and reports back to the Board.
Reports can be made anonymously and without fear of retaliation.
The Group maintains a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
Internal control and risk management Further to the comments above regarding Governance, details of the Groups internal control and risk management processes are contained in pages 70 to 79 of the Our performance section.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on going concern and financial reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 52.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Joanne Roberts Secretary 1 March 2011 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 85 6HUFR $5$ S LQGG
