Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Governance Nominations Committee This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the company.
The committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the board.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning and the election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The members of the Nominations Committee in 2009 10 were the non-executive directors Sir John Egan of the board and the CE, Tony Wray.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee In May 2009 the committee recommended the appointment of Gordon Fryett to the board as an independent non-executive director.
Gordons experience of major capital projects at The main purpose of the committee is to Tesco was a key driver in that decision.
assist the board by keeping the composition of the board under review During the year, the committee was primarily occupied with the search for Sir John Egans and conducting a rigorous and successor.
The search was led by Richard Davey to ensure independence in the duration of transparent process when making or the handover of the role.
renewing appointments of directors to the The board accepted the committees recommendations that Andrew Duff join the board, board.
It also advises the board on with effect from 10 May 2010.
Andrew will be appointed Chairman at the close of this years issues of directors conflicts of interest AGM, upon Sir Johns retirement.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found In respect of Andrews appointment, the committee engaged an external search agency, on the companys website www.
Zygos, who assisted in identifying suitable candidates with the skills and capabilities severntrent.
com and are also available required and in preparing an interview list.
In March this year the Nominations Committee formally reviewed the performance, Succession planning contribution and commitment of each of the directors retiring at this years AGM and When considering new appointments to seeking reappointment.
The committee supports and recommends their reappointment the board, the Nominations Committee to the board.
The committee has confirmed that each director standing for reappointment oversees the preparation of a position continues to perform well on an individual and collective basis, making a valuable specification that is provided to an contribution to the boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment to the long term independent recruitment organisation interests of the company.
retained to conduct a global search.
In Nominations Committee attendance in 2009 10 addition to the specific skills, knowledge Sir John Egan 5 5 and experience deemed necessary, the Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 5 specification contains criteria such as: Richard Davey 5 5 a proven track record of creating Gordon Fryett 1 2 shareholder value: Martin Lamb 4 5 unquestioned integrity: Baroness Noakes 4 5 a commitment to the highest standards Tony Wray 5 5 of governance: Each committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum of five having the required time available to members were in attendance, with the majority being independent, non-executive directors.
devote to the job: strategic mindset, an awareness of market leadership, outstanding monitoring skills: a preparedness to question, challenge and openly assess: and an independent point of view.
