42 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Audit Committee This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The members of the Audit Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE Chairman, Dr Bernard Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Director of Strategy and Regulation, the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and the external auditors normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the committee.
Other members of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
In performing its duties, the committee has access to the services of the Director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
Baroness Noakes DBE Chairman of the Audit Committee Like most audit committees the committee focuses on the financial statements of the Severn Trent group which are published at the half year and year end.
The regulated The purpose of the committee is to assist activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited result in other reporting obligations to the board in discharging its Ofwat and these are also covered by the Audit Committee.
These regulatory reporting responsibilities for the integrity of the obligations cover a comprehensive annual return on all of the Severn Trent Waters companys financial statements, the regulatory obligations, known as the June Return, and a statement which underpins the assessment of the effectiveness of the charges made by Severn Trent Water, known as the Principal Statement.
systems of internal controls and The external auditors, Deloitte LLP, make public reports on the half year accounts and on monitoring the effectiveness and the annual reports.
Deloitte also reports to Ofwat in respect of the June Return.
The June objectivity of the internal and external Return covers many aspects which are not financial and Severn Trent Water appoints a auditors.
The full terms of reference for Reporter, WS Atkins, to report to us on those aspects.
The Audit Committee receives the committee can be found on the reports from Deloitte and the Reporter on their work as part of its review of the financial companys website www.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary.
There are four primary meetings of the committee each year and the table below, which shows the agenda items for the meetings held in 2009 10, shows how the annual cycle covers all of the regular items as well as handling specific issues.
Date Key agenda items May 2009 Review the preliminary announcement and group accounts for year ended 31 March 2009 Review the June Return executive summary and board overview Review the effectiveness of the systems of internal control Review the external auditors' independence, objectivity and performance, and recommendation to the board of the reappointment of Deloitte Review six monthly update on risks and risk management September 2009 Agree the external auditors audit plan for 2009 10 and approve the auditors fee proposal Review the process and timeline for the 2011 12 Principal Statement Detailed assessment of Deloittes performance on 2008 09 audit and approval of audit fee Six monthly update from Internal Audit Review of assurance framework for SAP programme November 2009 Review six monthly update report on Enterprise Risk Management Financial statements for half year and interim results announcement Progress report on SAP programme Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Date Key agenda items continued Policy on the provision of non-audit services March 2010 A gree Internal Audit Plan 2010 11 The company has approved a formal Review of the work of Internal Audit for 2009 10 including the fraud log policy on the provision of non-audit Approve the process for the June Return 2010 submission services aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and Review the committees terms of reference and 2010 11 agendas objectivity of the external auditors.
Preliminary review of accounting issues for the 2010 financial The policy sets out the approach to be statements and June Return taken by the group when using the Review of implications of Bribery Act 2010 services of the external auditors, including requiring that certain services Review assurance arrangements for key risks see page 58 provided by the external auditors are pre-approved by the Audit Committee For 2009 10 Ofwat have introduced additional reporting requirements in relation to the split or its Chairman.
of operating costs and fixed assets between business units, as determined by Ofwat.
The processes to achieve this, together with the judgments required in allocating costs and It distinguishes between those services assets which are not managed in the same way as the business units are defined, have where an independent view is required been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee intends to hold an additional and that should be performed by the review meeting prior to the submission of the final returns to Ofwat.
external auditors such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work, The committee receives reports from the external auditors and regularly holds discussions prohibited services where the with both the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
The independence of the external auditors committeereports to the subsequent meeting of the board on the committees work and the could be threatened and they must not board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the committee.
be used, and other non-audit services Internal audit where the external auditors may be used.
The Director of Internal Audit and his Internal Audit team are employed by Severn Trent Plc.
Non-audit services where the external On a day to day basis the groups Internal Audit function reports to management on the auditors may be used include: noneffectiveness of the companys systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these recurring internal controls and risk systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the groups assets and resources.
This management reviews i. e. excluding work is summarised and reported to the Audit Committee on a regular basis and is a key outsourcing of internal audit work, advice element of the assurance that the committee receives on the risks and controls in the group.
on financial reporting and regulatory The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the Internal Audit function are reviewed matters, due diligence on acquisitions at least annually by the Audit Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit is free to raise any and disposals, project assurance and issues with the committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
External auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte were appointed auditors of the company in 2005.
The Audit The approval of the Audit Committee or Committee reviews the auditors effectiveness each year prior to recommending to the board its Chairman is always required if a that they be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
Deloitte audits all significant non-audit service provided by the subsidiaries of the group.
auditors is expected to cost more than 100,000 or if non-audit fees for the year Annually, the committee reviews information provided by the external auditors confirming would thereby exceed the amount of the their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements audit fee.
This process is completed in September of each year to enable a tender process to be completed before the following AGM if necessary.
The company does not have a policy of tendering the external audit at specific intervals.
The auditors tenure runs from one AGM to the next and there are no contractual obligations that act to restrict the committees choice of external auditors.
Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided in note7 to the accounts page 76.
In accordance with the requirements for auditor independence, our lead partner is standing down after the 2009 10 audit having served five years in that capacity.
Our new lead partner has observed the 2009 10 audit to ensure continuity following the changeover.
Audit Committee attendance in 2009 10 Baroness Noakes 4 4 Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 4 Richard Davey 4 4 Governance
