Governance Corporate Governance continued The Committee also determines the remuneration of the is being planned for later in the year to further develop the Groups senior management and that of the Chairman.
The Group also communicates it recommends the remuneration of the Non-executive with private and institutional investors through its AGM.
The Directors for determination by the Board.
in exercising its Groups website www.
co. uk provides additional responsibilities the Committee has access to professional information for shareholders and the general public.
advice, both internally and externally, and may consult the Risk Management Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 59 contains particulars of Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system remuneration and interests in the Companys shares.
of internal control and risk management.
in compliance with Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Nomination Committee it has established a continuous process in relation to the The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr A Auer and identification, evaluation and management of the significant is comprised solely of Non-executive Directors: Mr E van risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the Amerongen, Mr P Johnson and Dr S Riley.
The Committee is financial period ending March 2010 and to the date of approval formally constituted with written terms of reference which of this Report and is in accordance with the Revised Guidance are available on the Groups website.
it met twice during for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Report.
the year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and succession The objectives of the risk management process are to identify, planning.
During the year the Committee reviewed assess and control the most serious risks facing the Group.
The organisation and resourcing plans for the purpose of main risks affecting the Group are set out in the Principal Risks providing assurance that appropriate processes were in place section of this Annual Report on pages 39 and 40.
The main to ensure a sufficient supply of competent executive and elements of the risk management process are as follows: senior management in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK.
it keeps under review the structure, composition and balance The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, and its of skills of the Board.
Using the services of an external adherence, ensures that all significant factors affecting executive search consultant the recommendation of the Group strategy, structure and financing are properly Nomination Committee of the appointment of Mr C Surch as managed by the Directors.
Group Finance Director was accepted by the Board, leading to his appointment on 1 May 2009.
The Group risk management framework ensures that each business annually assesses the risks it faces and Pensions its monitoring and control of those risks.
The output of The assets of both the final salary and money purchase this process is a summary of all significant strategic, schemes in the UK are held separately from those of the operational, financial and compliance risks, mitigating Group.
These are invested by independent professional controls and the action plans necessary to reduce risks investment managers and cannot be invested directly in to a level deemed appropriate by the Board.
There are three trustees appointed by the reviewed by both country management and the Board Company and two member nominated trustees.
Senior to ensure the appropriateness of the risks identified and employees in Belgium are provided with defined contribution the controls and action plans reported.
in the Netherlands, employees participate in compulsory collective transport industry wide pension The risk management framework is constantly evolving and in schemes, or equivalent schemes, which provide benefits up addition to the improvements noted in last years Annual Report to a certain level of pay.
Senior employees in the Netherlands the following developments have been implemented this year to earning in excess of the maximum level of pay allowed for further embed risk management processes into the day-to-day within the compulsory pension schemes also participate in a management of the business: defined contribution arrangement for the excess amount.
Quarterly reporting to the Board by each country on the Investor Relations specific measures being taken to control the most important The Company has an active investor relations programme, risks from a Group perspective.
with designated members of the Board regularly meeting institutional investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The The Managing Director of each country making an annual Board obtains feedback from its joint brokers, RBS Hoare presentation to the Audit Committee on how the significant Govett and investec on the views of institutional shareholders risks are being mitigated in his business.
and the Chairman attends meetings with major shareholders whose views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Detailed shareholder and market comment in particular is An annual self assessment by each business of the scope reported to the full Board after results announcements.
During and quality of its risk management process and system of the year close shareholder consultation was necessitated internal control with subsequent review by both the Risk by the 2009 Rights issue and approach for the Company Management and internal Audit function and the Board.
by private equity in December 2009.
An investor Day event Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 52 GOVERNANCE
