Governance Corporate Governance Combined Code The Board operates under agreed terms of reference, which together with those of its Committees are documented The Group is committed to achieving high standards of formally and updated as necessary.
The Board is provided corporate governance and integrity and exemplary ethical with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it standards in all its business dealings.
This statement, together to effectively discharge its duties.
All Directors have access with the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 59, explains to the Company Secretary whose role includes ensuring that how the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Board procedures and regulations are followed.
in addition, Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent Reporting Council and most recently updated in June 2008. professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the The Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Companys expense.
Combined Code in all material respects throughout the year.
The Group has also complied with the Financial Reporting Council Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Guidance on Audit Committees issued in October 2008 and the individual Directors during the year was again undertaken Financial Services Authoritys revisions to the Listing Rules and through the mechanism of formalised self assessment Disclosure & Transparency Rules issued in June 2008. questionnaires.
The performance evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the Non-executive Directors, led by the The Board of Directors Senior independent Director.
Consistent with the Boards The Board currently comprises the Chairman, a further commitment to continuously evaluate its performance, progress three independent Non-executive Directors, the Group Chief against a number of specific priorities was monitored during the Executive and Group Finance Director.
These included strategic investment in and growth of the primary responsibility for running the Board and the Group UK business, a review of corporate communications and the Chief Executive is responsible for the operations of the Group development of the senior management team below Board level.
and for the development of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division of responsibilities in light of the recommendations of the walker Report the between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive has been Board will keep under regular review their assessment as clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
whether or not to engage the services of external consultants for future evaluations.
The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered by the Board to be Any new Director appointed to the Board is subject to election independent of management and free from any business or by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
other relationship which could materially interfere with the in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Nonexercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-executive executive Directors are also required to stand for re-election on Directors make a significant contribution to the functioning an annual basis and Executive Directors, every three years.
Nonof the Board, thereby ensuring that no one individual or group executive Directors are appointed initially for a three year term.
dominates the decision making process.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the On appointment, Directors are given an introduction to the Companys share option or pension schemes.
The Chairman Groups operations, including visits to principal sites and also meets periodically with the other Non-executive Directors meetings with operational management.
Specific training without the presence of the Executive Directors.
requirements of Directors are met either directly or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
During the year, The Combined Code also recommends that the Board appoints at the Non-executive Directors request, a presentation to one of its independent Non-executive Directors to be the Senior the full Board was arranged which focused on the current independent Director.
This Director is available to shareholders and latest technological innovations in waste management should they have concerns which contact through the normal processes.
Non-executive Directors also have access to channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance  Non-executive database and course Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is programme.
Board succession planning is kept under review inappropriate.
During the year this role was again fulfilled by by the Nomination Committee.
As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force between The Board meets regularly, having met eighteen times during the Company and each of its Directors under which the the year, four of which were held by telephone conference.
in Company has agreed to indemnify each Director, to the extent addition, separate strategic discussions take place.
Several permitted by law, in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a meetings are held at subsidiary company locations in the result of carrying out his role as a Director of the Company.
The Netherlands, Belgium and the UK where local operations Directors are also indemnified against the costs of defending are reviewed and site inspections made.
in line with the any criminal or civil proceedings or any claim by the Company requirement of sound corporate governance, there is a formal or a regulator as they are incurred provided that where the schedule of matters reserved specifically for the Boards defence is unsuccessful the Director must repay those defence decision.
These include approval of financial statements, costs to the Company.
The indemnities are qualifying third party strategic policy, acquisitions and disposals, capital projects over indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act defined limits, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 50 GOVERNANCE
