Risk management is also embedded in the major decisionA clear management structure including clear limits of making processes involved in delivering the Groups strategy, authority, updated regularly, over items such as capital specifically in relation to investment projects and infrastructure expenditure, pricing strategy and contract authorisation.
it is also embedded in the dayto-day management of operations including health, safety and Monthly meetings of the Groups most senior managers and environmental compliance where there is regular monitoring, Executive Directors to discuss performance and plans.
auditing and reporting of procedures and controls.
Monthly visits by the Executive Directors to key operating Internal control responsibility locations to attend local board or management meetings.
The system of internal control is based on a continuous process Appointment and retention of appropriately experienced and of identifying, evaluating and managing risks and include the qualified staff to help achieve business objectives.
risk management processes outlined above.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control An annual risk-based internal audit plan approved by the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board recognises that Audit Committee.
Audits are performed under the guidance internal control systems are designed to manage rather than of the Risk Management & internal Audit Manager with eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives findings discussed at business unit board meetings.
and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute Summaries of audit findings and the status of action plans to assurance against material misstatements, losses and the remedy significant failings are discussed at Group Board and breach of laws and regulations.
Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis.
Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system A range of quality assurance and environmental management of internal control systems in use across the Group.
where appropriate these in addition to the Boards ongoing internal control monitoring are independently certified to internationally recognised process it has also conducted an annual review of the standards including iSO 9001 and iSO 14001 and subject to effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in regular independent auditing.
compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code.
This review covered all material controls including financial, Regular meetings of the Audit Committee, comprising Nonoperational and compliance controls and risk management executive Directors, to consider all key aspects of the risk systems.
Specifically, the Boards review consisted of the management and internal control systems.
following elements: where weaknesses in the internal control system have been Consideration of changes in the risk environment identified through the monitoring processes outlined above, and the Groups ability to respond to these through plans for strengthening them are put in place and action plans its review of business risk registers, controls and regularly monitored until complete.
The Board confirms that improvement action plans.
no material weaknesses were identified during the year and therefore no remedial action is required in relation to them.
Consideration of quarterly risk reporting by business management.
Financial reporting in addition to the general risk management and internal control Review of the annual certification by country processes described above the Group has also implemented management that appropriate internal controls are in internal controls specific to the financial reporting process and place following assessment by the Risk Management the preparation of the annual financial statements.
The main and internal Audit function.
control aspects are as follows: Review of reports by Internal Audit and external auditors.
Formal written financial policies and procedures applicable to all business units.
Continuous process for the monitoring of the system of internal control A detailed reporting calendar including the submission of Regular features of the Groups internal control system which detailed monthly accounts for each business unit in addition contribute towards its continuous monitoring are as follows: to the year-end and half year-end reporting process.
A comprehensive planning and budgeting exercise.
Detailed management review to Board level of both Performance is measured monthly against plan and monthly management accounts and year-end and half yearprior year results and explanations sought for significant end accounts.
variances to provide early warning of potential additional risk factors.
Bi-annual certification by country Managing Directors and Finance Directors and Executive Directors on compliance with appropriate policies and the accuracy of financial information.
