Governance Directors Report continued the Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be Companys shareholders.
The Company received authority at a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only the last AGM to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election: basis up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,983,498.30.
This authority lasts until the earlier of the AGM of the each Executive Director shall retire from office at the third Company in 2010 or 30 September 2010 and was additional AGM after the AGM at which he or she was last elected to a similar authority received by the Company in connection but he or she may be reappointed by ordinary resolution if with the Rights issue which expired at the last AGM.
eligible and willing: Repurchase of shares - subject to authorisation by each Non-executive Director shall retire from office at shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase all or every AGM but he or she may be reappointed by ordinary any of its own shares in accordance with the Companies resolution if eligible and willing: Acts and the Listing Rules.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so the Company may by special resolution remove any Director held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion before the expiration of his or her period of office or may, by of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice Companys issued share capital.
The Company received has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are authority at the last AGM to purchase up to 39,669,966 complied with: and ordinary shares.
This authority lasts until the earlier of the AGM of the Company in 2010 or 23 January 2011. there are a number of other grounds on which a Directors office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all Borrowing powers - the Directors are empowered to exercise the other Directors being at least three in number request all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to his or her resignation, where he or she suffers mental mortgage or charge all or any part of the Companys assets, incapacity, compounds with his or her creditors, is declared subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount of all bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director.
net external borrowings of the Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to three times the Powers of Directors aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and reserves The Articles of Association of the Company provide that the calculated in the manner prescribed in the Articles of business of the Company shall be managed by the Board Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution of which may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether the Companys shareholders.
relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Amendment to Companys Articles Company by legislation.
it is also limited by the provisions of the The Company may alter its Articles of Association by special Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company and resolution passed at a general meeting.
by any directions given by special resolution of the members of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is Corporate Governance exercised.
Specific provisions relevant to the exercise of power The Board is fully committed to high standards of corporate by the Directors include the following: governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance for the financial Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares - while holders year are given in the Corporate Governance and Remuneration of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under the Reports on pages 50 to 59.
These sections contain details Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to of Directors service contracts and further information on the cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible appointment of Directors and the responsibilities of the Board.
into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Articles to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the of Association and directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with exercise all the powers of the Company.
certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained Corporate Responsibility in a companys articles of association or given by its information on Corporate Responsibility matters including shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event the environment, employment policies, health and safety and cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies community relations are set out on pages 41 to 43.
Shanks Acts, the Company may also not allot shares for cash Group plc is a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme series, designed to measure the performance of companies that without first making an offer to existing shareholders to meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
An allot such shares to them on the same or more favourable updated Group Corporate Responsibility Policy was approved terms in proportion to their respective shareholdings, unless by the Board in February 2010 and is available on the Group this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the website as is the Shanks Group Corporate Responsibilty Report.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 48 GOVERNANCE
