Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 51 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Nomination Committee report The following Directors served as members of the Nomination During the year the Board considered and agreed with the Nomination Committee the Committee during the year: Committees recommendations that Dr David Ginsburg, William Burns and Anne Minto join the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Member From To David Kappler, Chairman April 5, 2004 To date New Non-Executive Directors receive a customized detailed Matthew Emmens June 18, 2008 To date induction program which takes account of their particular experience Dr Jeffrey Leiden July 25, 2007 To date and backgrounds.
This program includes meetings with senior management.
A majority of the Committee has been determined by the Board to be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the 2010 Governance Code.
Role of the Nomination Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee under its terms of reference David Kappler are to: Chairman of the Nomination Committee regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge, diversity and experience of the Board, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates for new Board appointments: in relation to appointments to the Board, consider candidates on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity and also consider the candidates ability to devote sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively: consider succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors to ensure that this is managed in a timely manner: and make recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Shires website at www.
Nomination Committee activities The Committee met five times during 2010.
The attendance record is set out in the Corporate Governance report on page 46.
At the invitation of the Committee, Mr Russell attended all meetings.
During 2010, the business reviewed by the Committee included: the selection and engagement of search agencies to help the Committee identify potential new Board candidates.
In engaging search agencies the Committee requests that the agency takes account of Board diversity in their search for potential Board candidates: a review of the composition of the Board, its diversity and the balance of skills and experience on the Board: succession planning for the Board: an evaluation of the Committees performance to ensure it is operating effectively: recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors whose terms of office expired during the year: and a review of the Committees terms of reference and recommendation of any changes.
