Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 45 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board and believes that a sound governance structure engenders a The Board currently comprises, in addition to the Chairman, two successful company.
Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors and meets at least five times a year.
The Non-Executive Directors bring judgement This report sets out how the Board has applied the principles set out in which is independent to that of management to Board deliberations.
both the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the UK The Executive Directors have responsibility for day-to-day Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the 2008 Combined Code business operations.
and the new UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 the 2010 Governance Code.
The Board is responsible for the overall management, strategic direction, maintaining sound risk management and internal control Compliance statement systems, succession planning and performance of the Group.
It Throughout the year to December 31, 2010 the Company has, in the discharges its responsibilities through regularly scheduled meetings Directors opinion, complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 and ad hoc meetings, as may be required.
The Board has formally of the 2008 Combined Code.
reserved specific matters to itself for determination and approval which include strategic issues, the Groups risk profile, the annual budget, Although the 2010 Governance Code only applies to the Company changes in share capital, approval of the Groups financial statements, with effect from January 1, 2011, the Board is of the opinion that the approval of material contracts and succession planning for senior Company complied with the provisions set out in the new Code, management.
In addition, it reviews the Groups internal controls and with the exception of: risk management policies and approves its Code of Ethics.
It also monitors and evaluates the performance of the Group as a whole, i the new provision in Schedule A relating to the claw back through engaging with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial of performance-related remuneration following a restatement Officer and members of the Leadership Team, as appropriate.
Matters of financial results or misconduct, which will be considered by not formally reserved to the Board are delegated to Board Committees, the Remuneration Committee in 2011: and whose functions are described below, and to the Leadership Team.
ii the new provision relating to the annual re-election of Directors.
Shires Board has considered carefully the provision in the 2010 Board members receive detailed information from the Executive Governance Code encouraging companies to have annual reDirectors, the Company Secretary, members of the Leadership elections for their Board of Directors.
Shires Board recognises the Team and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their critical importance of having an effective Board of Directors.
All Directors have access to employees Board also places the highest importance on active engagement in the Company and to the advice and guidance of the Company with its shareholders: meetings are held regularly with shareholders Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the and the Board takes account of shareholders views.
Over the last Groups expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
The Board is two years there have been significant changes to the Shire Board of the opinion that each of its members has the skills, knowledge, with four Non-Executive Directors joining the Board and four Nonaptitude and experience to perform the functions required of a Executive Directors leaving the Board during that time.
Taking into Director of a listed company.
account the nature of Shires business and the long time frames associated with drug development, given the Boards focus on the Biographical details of the members of the Board who served during development of the Companys strategy against a background of the year and up to the date of this report are shown on pages 38 significant changes to the healthcare sector, and given the recent and 39. changes to the Boards composition, the Board has concluded that annual re-election of Directors would not be conducive to the Independence of Directors effective management of these areas of focus.
The Board will keep The Board considers William Burns, Dr David Ginsburg, David Kappler, the annual re-election of Directors under careful review, including Patrick Langlois, Dr Jeffrey Leiden, Anne Minto and David Stout monitoring the views of shareholders.
As regards the 2011 AGM, to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board views each most of the Board will be standing for re-election at the AGM due of these Non-Executive Directors to be independent of management, to their retirement by rotation in accordance with the Companys independent in judgement and character and free from any business Articles and, in addition, Shires two newest Board members will or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise be seeking election by shareholders.
The Board also considered Dr Barry Price and Kathleen Nealon to have been independent Non-Executive Directors whilst members of the Board.
Mr Emmens and Dr Leiden are both directors of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. : Mr Emmens in an executive capacity and Dr Leiden as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board, at the time of re-appointing Dr Leiden in December 2010, concluded in its opinion that Dr Leiden remained independent in judgement and character, his commitment to the Group was undiminished and his performance continued to be effective.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 46 46 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Roles and responsibilities of Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior for consultation with shareholders on any matters of concern.
The Vice Independent Director, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairmans role is to provide support and guidance to the Chairman, The offices of Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer be available for consultation with US based shareholders on any matters are held by different individuals.
Those of Deputy Chairman and Senior of concern and to deputize for the Deputy Chairman.
The Chief Independent Director are held by a single Non-Executive Director.
The Executive Officer has the overall responsibility for running the business Chairman is responsible for the conduct of the Board and ensures that on a day-to-day basis and chairs the Leadership Team.
Board discussions are conducted in such a way that all views are taken into account and so that no individual Director or small group of The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Directors dominates proceedings.
The Deputy Chairmans role is to Senior Independent Director, Vice Chairman and the Chief Executive provide support and guidance to the Chairman and to deputize for the Officer are clearly defined, separate and have been approved by the Chairman as required.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible Board.
More details can be found on Shires website.
for chairing meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and Executive Directors present, leading the Non-Executive Senior Independent Director Directors in evaluating annually the performance of the Chairman, David Kappler is the Senior Independent Director and during the attending sufficient meetings with major shareholders to gain a year has chaired meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the balanced understanding of the issues which are important to such Chairman and the Executive Directors being present.
shareholders and any concerns that they may have and being available 1 Board and Committee meetings The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee meetings held in 2010 was as follows: Audit, Science & Board Board Compliance & Remuneration Nomination Technology Directors scheduled ad hoc Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Matthew Emmens 6 6 1 1 5 5 Angus Russell 6 6 1 1 Graham Hetherington 6 6 1 1 William Burns 4 5 0 1 4 4 Dr David Ginsburg 3 3 1 1 3 3 David Kappler 6 6 0 1 6 6 5 5 Patrick Langlois 6 6 1 1 6 6 6 6 Dr Jeffrey Leiden 6 6 1 1 6 6 5 5 3 3 Anne Minto 3 3 1 1 3 3 David Stout 6 6 1 1 6 6 Former Directors Kathleen Nealon 2 3 0 1 3 3 3 3 2 Dr Barry Price 1 x y where x is the number of meetings attended and y is the number of meetings that could have been attended.
For example 2 4 indicates two meetings attended out of a possible four.
2 Dr Price retired from the Board on January 24, 2010 prior to any Board and Committee meetings being held.
Due to a conflict with prior commitments some Directors were unable to attend certain meetings.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met five times during the year without the Executive Directors being present.
Supply of information The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors The Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are made available for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members for inspection at the Companys AGM.
in advance of any scheduled or ad hoc Board meeting.
Before decisions are made, consideration is given to the adequacy of Board performance evaluation information available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are In 2010, the Board considered what would be the most constructive deferred if further information is required.
format to use for its 2010 performance effectiveness evaluation, taking into account the fact that an externally facilitated effectiveness review Appointment and re-election of Directors had been conducted in 2009 and that four new Board members had The Board has authority to appoint any person to be a Director joined the Board since the last review.
The Board agreed that the either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
2010 review should be conducted by the Chairman, facilitated by Any Director so appointed must retire and offer himself or herself the Company Secretary.
The Chairman engaged with each Board for election at the next AGM following appointment.
member and the discussion included their assessment of the Boards effectiveness, including the culture and Board dynamics, whether Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board ordinarily the right issues were being considered by the Board, the quality for a term of two years.
At the expiration of the two year term of materials provided to the Board, the effectiveness of Board Non-Executive Directors are not required to be re-elected by Committees, their views on individual contributions from Board shareholders unless the expiration of the term coincides with members and also if it would be helpful for individual Directors to have a particular Non-Executive Directors turn to retire by rotation, greater understanding of any areas of the business to enable them but may be re-appointed by the Board.
to discharge their responsibilities more effectively.
Mr Emmens Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 47 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 shared the key outputs of all these discussions, on a non attributable 4 Science & Technology Committee basis, with the full Board and the Board considered what actions The Science & Technology Committee is responsible for periodically might be taken to enhance the operation of the Board.
The Senior reviewing and advising the Board on Shires strategic direction and Independent Director conducted a similar exercise amongst the Noninvestment in research, development and technology.
The Science Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, to assess the Boards & Technology Committee met three times in 2010.
The members views as to the effectiveness of the Chairman.
This feedback was of the Science & Technology Committee are all Independent Nonshared at a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Executive Directors.
Chairman, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
Leadership Team Committees of the Board The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of Shire to the The Board has established the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee, Leadership Team, which operates within clear and formal parameters.
the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the The Leadership Team reports to and seeks guidance from the Board Science & Technology Committee together the Committees.
Each on a regular basis and normally meets once a month to deliberate on Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of a size by the Board, and are available on Shires website www.
and significance as to require referral to the Board before such matters Details of each Committee are set out below.
are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
1 Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee During 2010 the Leadership Team held ten scheduled meetings and The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee the ACR Committee has four ad hoc meetings.
At December 31, 2010 the Leadership Team been established for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and comprised Angus Russell Chief Executive Officer who chaired the financial reporting processes of the Group, the audit of its financial Leadership Team, Graham Hetherington Chief Financial Officer, statements and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Michael Cola President of Specialty Pharmaceuticals, Sylvie Gregoire internal control framework.
The ACR Committee met on six occasions President of Human Genetic Therapies, Barbara Deptula Chief in 2010.
The members of the ACR Committee are all Independent NonCorporate Development Officer and Tatjana May General Counsel.
For further information about the ACR Committee, its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, Directors remuneration please refer to the ACR Committee report on pages 52 and 53.
The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 67.
The report details the 2 Remuneration Committee Directors remuneration and the basis upon which executive The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing remuneration is determined.
and overseeing the implementation of the Groups compensation and benefits policy.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors Relations with shareholders and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Group is committed to maintaining constructive relationships The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by with shareholders.
the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the members of the Leadership Team, other than the Executive Directors, The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief Executive is determined by the Chief Executive Officer following discussion with Officer and Chief Financial Officer give presentations on the results the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration each quarter by teleconference for institutional investors and analysts.
Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
As the Company has securities listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market in the US, Shire also files quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and The Remuneration Committee met on six occasions in 2010. an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and Exchange For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its Commission SEC.
membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2010, refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 54 to 67.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported by the other senior executives, also arrange individual and group 3 Nomination Committee meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss the The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and Groups strategy and performance and to understand the views of nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
major shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board as The Nomination Committee also ensures adequate succession a whole.
The Chairman, Vice Chairman and the Senior Independent planning for the Board.
The Nomination Committee met five times in Non-Executive Director are available also to meet with major 2010.
The members of the Nomination Committee, with the exception shareholders.
of Matthew Emmens, are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
com provides information about the The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search Group and its business and is regularly updated.
The Groups consultants to assist it in the discharge of its responsibilities, as it Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors considers necessary.
For further information about the Nomination Committee, its At the Companys AGM shareholders are given the opportunity to membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2010 ask questions of the Directors.
The Directors also make themselves please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 51. available informally after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 48 48 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Shires approach to Responsibility All employees can, via an independently managed Global Compliance Shire strives to ensure it delivers value to healthcare systems and Helpline, raise any concerns in any of these areas and any other area, to society.
It is therefore critical that Responsibility is at the heart of anonymously if they wish, to the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Shires business in order that we continue to build and maintain trust in the strictest confidence without fear of discrimination or reprisal.
with our many stakeholders patients, physicians, policy makers, payors, investors, employees and others as well as in the community 1 Financial reporting and disclosure and environment in which we operate.
Shire therefore attaches great The Board, with the assistance of the ACR Committee, has ultimate importance to ethical business practices and to societal and responsibility for the preparation of accounts and for the monitoring environmental issues.
Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is of systems of internal control.
The Board strives to present a balanced taken at the highest levels.
The Board reviews Shires overall approach assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects and to Responsibility.
The Board also reviews the specific business risks it endeavors to present all financial, scientific and other information related to Responsibility matters, as part of the overall risk so as to be comprehensible to investors.
The Group publishes management review process.
quarterly financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor the Groups financial position regularly.
During 2010, Shire continued to further advance its Responsibility strategy by focusing on core areas that support Shires delivery of its In addition the Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which business goals.
The Responsibility Co-ordination Team, is chaired by is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Its membership includes the General Counsel, and comprises senior employees who act as executives and senior managers from the Specialty Pharmaceuticals sponsors for responsibility focus areas such as access to medicines, and HGT businesses and from the legal, finance, compliance and stewardship of partners and suppliers, geographical expansion and risk functions.
Its responsibilities include ensuring that all material public patient education on ADHD.
The Responsibility Co-ordination information is disclosed to investors in the Groups periodic financial Team comprises line managers with expertise spanning health and reports and that such information is recorded, summarized and safety, supply chain, R&D, marketing, environment, community and reported accurately.
The Team meets at least three times a year and is responsible for working with employees across the business to ensure Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the United that Responsibility is understood by all employees and is embedded in States, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are the way Shire conducts its business and seeks to deliver on its goals.
required to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: Responsibility risks are managed within the overall framework of risk the Annual Report on Form 10-K the Form 10-K in the United management, explained below under the heading internal control.
States does not contain any material misstatements or omissions: Further information about Shires Responsibility focus areas and financial information reported in the Form 10-K fairly presents the regular news about  achievements, can be financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Group: obtained from the area dedicated to Responsibility on Shires website the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are at www.
responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the Code of Ethics United States: The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees andthe Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have is available for review on Shires website.
evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and procedures: Financial reporting and disclosure, internal control and the role the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have of the auditors indicated in the Form 10-K whether there were any significant The Board has, through the ACR Committee, established formal changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: and and transparent arrangements for financial reporting, external auditing and the review of the internal control environment including compliancebased on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief issues.
The ACR Committees terms of reference extend to the Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses Groups compliance and risk management activities as a whole and in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting not just the financial aspects of internal control.
which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Groups ability to record, process and report financial information included in the The ACR Committee has access, as it may require, to the Groups Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Groups auditors.
internal and external auditors throughout the year, in addition to presentations from both on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have or identified risks are closely examined and are reported by the ACR completed these certifications and they have been filed with the Committee Chairman to the Board with recommendations for action.
SEC in the United States as part of the Groups Annual Report as at December 31, 2010 on Form 10-K.
Governance 8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 49 ort and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 2 Risk management, compliance and internal control Effective identification, assessment and management of risks The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal Management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the Group control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain sound risk creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Group management and internal control systems to safeguard shareholders has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing investments and the Groups assets and to regularly review the the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation effectiveness of such systems.
Whilst the Board acknowledges its throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the responsibility for the systems of risk management and internal control, Annual Report and Accounts.
Material risks are recorded twice a year such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate all risk.
on a corporate risk schedule the Schedule which allocates specific Accordingly even the most effective systems of risk management mitigation or management responsibility to senior management.
and internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute During 2010 the Schedule was reviewed by the Leadership Team assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and the Risk Council, which comprised a cross-functional group of senior executives chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk In 2010, the Board reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group Officer.
The items on the Schedule considered by the Risk Council and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal to constitute areas of higher risk were also reviewed by the ACR control systems.
Aside from these reviews, the Board delegates Committee and the full Board.
responsibility to the ACR Committee for more regular review of both key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the Effective internal control procedures internal audit function.
The ACR Committee has kept these areas The Group has a system of internal control procedures.
Compliance under regular review during 2010. with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review and regular reports prepared by Internal Audit and the Groups The Group has risk management, compliance and internal audit external auditors.
Any significant issues arising are reported to the functions.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer and the Vice ACR Committee.
President of Internal Audit report to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, but each has direct and regular Effective internal audit access to the Chairman of the Group, the Chairman of the ACR The internal review of the Groups control procedures and compliance Committee and the other members of that Committee.
They also with such procedures is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
both attend and regularly present at ACR Committee meetings.
The ACR Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit program, considers the findings of internal audit reviews and managements The Groups risk management, compliance and internal audit strategy response to them, and ensures efficient co-ordination between the is based on a risk and control framework containing the following Groups internal and external auditors.
The Groups internal audit key elements: function, comprising a mixture of internal and out-sourced resource, was operational throughout 2010.
The ACR Committee, which is an effective control environment: responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit function, has an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function during 2010. effective internal control procedures: and 3 External auditing effective internal audit.
The ACR Committee has the primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal Effective control environment of the external auditors as well as for determining the remuneration of The key elements of the Groups control environment are as follows: and overseeing the work of the external auditors.
The ACR Committee assesses at least annually the objectivity and independence of the the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the risk management external auditors taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
and internal control systems and has delegated certain The Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan responsibilities to the Leadership Team and or the ACR Committee: each year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors a framework of Corporate Values and a Code of Ethics which sets engagement.
In order to ensure that the independence and objectivity appropriate standards of ethical behaviour are operational of the external auditors is maintained, the Committee applies a formal throughout the Group: policy for the provision of non-audit services.
Such services are categorized as follows: the internal structure of the organization is well documented with clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: services for which the external auditors are explicitly excluded: a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have beenservices for which the external auditors can be engaged without implemented: prior referral to the ACR Committee: and the internal audit department, overseen by the Vice President ofservices for which pre-approval of the ACR Committee is required.
Internal Audit, carries out regular reviews of internal controls and reports findings to management and the ACR Committee: and The Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditors and whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and the ACR Committee considers the major findings of any internal in aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate so as not to investigations and managements response to them.
The ACR undermine their independence.
Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of the Groups control environment.
8100 Annual Report 2010 Annual Report 2010 15 03 2011 14:27 Page 50 50 Shire plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The Groups management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a to 15 f or 15 d 15 f promulgated under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, material misstatements due to error may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting for the purposes of Shires Annual Report on Form 10-K as at December 31, 2010, which was filed with the SEC on February 23, 2011.
In making this assessment, the Groups management used the criteria set forth in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations COSO of the Treadway Commission.
Based on its assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2010 the Groups internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Deloitte LLP, the Groups external auditors, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the design and effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting for the purpose of the Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-3 of the Groups Form 10-K. Changes in internal control over financial reporting During the year ended December 31, 2010 there were no changes in Shires internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Shires internal control over financial reporting.
