review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Corporate GovernanCe SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
As an essential part of this commitment the Group supports the highest .
Where applicable, the Company has already adopted principles from the Governance Code.
comPliance With the comBined code , ,  companies as contained in Section 1 of the Code.
The Combined code can be accessed at www.
cfm, and the Governance Code can be accessed at www.
the Board As at 31 December 2010, the Board was made up of eight members comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
 as soon as possible in order that the Company will return to compliance with Code Provision A.
3.2. of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the .
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings their own senior level of experience and expertise and that the balance between Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
The Non-Executive Directors  constructively in relation to both the development of strategy and performance against objectives set out by the Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which , aresetoutonpage48.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and is understood by the Board.
The Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The Senior Independent Director is currently Mr. C. V. Geoghegan.
Mr. D. A. Haxby was the Senior Independent Director until 13 May 2010.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
However in accordance with a new provision included in the Governance Code, all continuing Directors will be seeking re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Board Procedures The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met formally on ten occasions during the .
 and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days before meetings take place.
There is an agreed : : : : : :and corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
Forexample, duringtheyear,  documentation and the preliminary and interim announcements.
To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Directorshave the right to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed action will be recorded in the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www.
56 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate GovernanCe ContInued Board Procedures continued From1October2008, , orcanhave, , , .
, whereappropriate, ifacompanys Articles of Association permit and Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
 during the year and up to the date of this report and are included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
attendance at Board and committee meetinGs , Audit, : Meetings Audit Meetings Remuneration Meetings Nominations Meetings Board eligible to Committee eligible to Committee eligible to Committee eligible to 10meetings attend 4meetings attend 7meetings attend 3meetings attend M. J. Chivers 10 10 N A N A N A N A N A N A C. J. Davies 10 10 N A N A N A N A 3 3 G. W. Davies 10 10 N A N A N A N A N A N A C. V. Geoghegan 9 10 4 4 7 7 3 3 D. A. Haxby 3 4 1 1 3 4 1 1 V. Murray 10 10 4 4 7 7 3 3 J. C. Nicholls 10 10 4 4 7 7 3 3 L. O. Tench 10 10 N A N A N A N A 3 3 L. VandeWalle 3 3 N A N A N A N A 0 0 Chairman.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of that Committee.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides Senior Managers from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of the Company and during the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its three principal Committees.
In2010, , , in addition to the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including Board composition and succession planning.
Each Director completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the independent third party who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
The Chairman and the independent third party presented the results of the evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results of the evaluation in detail.
 was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated in an open and frank basis.
 as being areas where training would increase the knowledge and effectiveness of the Director.
The Board as a whole also undertook training in 2010.
Further training is programmed for 2011.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
relations With shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance isunderstood.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 relations With shareholders continued .
 by the Chairman and the Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the .
TheChairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders if requested and both are prepared to contact individual .
 range of issues and also participate in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety of investor research bodies.
During the year the Chairman of the  Policy.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders in attendance at the Annual General Meeting vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of Proxy votes received for or against the resolution together with the number of absolutions is announced.
The Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
the remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee operates under written Terms of Reference which are consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committeesactivities.
nominations committee The Nominations Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
Its principal duty is the nomination of suitable .
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee are chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Committee meets as appropriate but at least once a year.
A quorum is four members, at least two of whom shall be independent Non-Executive Directors.
, size, diversity, genderandcomposition, balanceofskills,   nomination of new Directors.
The Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning to ensure that processes are in place with regards to both Board and senior appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the Nominations Committee would, in conjunction with the Board, draft .
,  appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
The drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
This process was followed inidentifyingMr.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored .
audit committee The Audit Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
risk manaGement and internal control .
 policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
, ,  and risk management procedures and compliance controls.
, so that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
58 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate GovernanCe ContInued risk manaGement and internal control continued onGoinG Process for risk identification, evaluation and manaGement .
Thereisweeklycashand : provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate and timely information including relevant key performance indicators, based on reliable management : : regular business unit management Board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance Director, executive Board meetings and company Board , , , : , , : : , regularlyupdatedand reviewedbytheBoard, : operating units, ,  CSA .
Thesequestionnaires require managers to respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have responsibility.
These are analysed by local and Group management  :and a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continual programme of improvement.
annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of internal control The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed reports from senior management, its advisers, Group internal audit and our external Auditors in order .
  Combined Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
 reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
These are comprehensively detailed in the Group Finance Manual, which is used by the businesses in the preparation of their results.
Financial control requirements are also set out in the Group Finance Manual.
During 2010 these systems were operational throughout the Group.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2010 Group employees used this system to raise concerns about a number of separate issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
Theriskframework, asoutlinedabove,  level of risk throughout the business.
,  under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
