D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C orporate governance The board of Associated British Foods plc the Company believes that good updated version under a new title, the UK Corporate Governance Code corporate governance represents essential protection for the Companys the revised Code.
The revised Code will apply for financial years beginning shareholders and remains committed to maintaining high standards of business on or after 29 June 2010.
The board is keeping its practices under review in light ethics and integrity across the group, recognising these to be vital to the of the revised Code, adapting its procedures as appropriate.
The board believes that any system which is adopted must also reflect necessary The Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance standards of governance for the Company and its corporate responsibilities and published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC the Combined believes that the systems in place meet those requirements.
Code which is publicly available at www.
This report, together with the Statement of compliance Remuneration report on pages 45 to 50, explains how the Company discharges The board considers that the Company has complied fully with the provisions its corporate governance responsibilities.
set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year, with the Following a review of the Combined Code in 2009, the FRC has published an following exceptions: Combined Code Provisions Status Explanation A.
The terms and conditions of appointment Galen Weston has not entered into a formal letter This is due to his relationship with the Companys of non-executive directors should be made of appointment.
ultimate holding company, Wittington Investments available for inspection Limited of which he is a director and shareholder.
Galen Weston receives no fees for performing his role as a non-executive director and Associated British Foods plc does not reimburse him for any expenses incurred by him in that role.
In accordance with the Combined Code, he is subject to annual re-election.
2.1 The Chairman should not chair the Charles Sinclair is both Chairman and chairman The board of Associated British Foods plc does not Remuneration committee of the Remuneration committee.
accept this recommendation as it considers that Charles Sinclair, due to his experience, is best suited to chair this committee.
The Combined Code now recognises that the Chairman can be a member of the Remuneration committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
34 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board of directors Chairman and Chief Executive Role and responsibilities The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and All members of the board take collective responsibility for the overall the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, management and performance of the Company.
The board met formally and agreed by the board to ensure that no one has unfettered powers of decision.
eight times during the year.
The individual attendance by directors is detailed The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, is responsible for the operation and leadership of on page 36. the board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, George Weston, is responsible for leading and managing the groups business Whilst the board has delegated day-to-day management of the Company to within the authorities delegated by the board and the implementation of board the Chief Executive, there is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board strategy and policy.
for decision, through which the board oversees control of the Companys affairs.
This schedule of matters reserved includes the approval of: Senior independent director Tim Clarke is the recognised senior independent director.
annual and interim results and interim management statements: Re-election the Companys strategic and operating plans: Under the Articles, all directors seek election at their first annual general meeting the annual budget: following appointment.
The Articles also require all directors who held office at the time of the two preceding annual general meetings, and in any event not appointments to the board and as Company Secretary: less than one third of relevant directors excluding those who retire other than by treasury policies: rotation, to submit themselves for re-election.
In accordance with the Combined Code, all non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years must also dividend recommendation: submit themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
Accordingly, Galen Weston, the issue of new shares: Peter Smith and George Weston will be required to seek re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
amendments to the Companys pension scheme: Induction and continuing professional development larger capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investment proposals: On joining the board, directors are given background documents describing and the Company and its activities and are provided with an appropriate induction the overall system of internal control and risk management.
The Company offers major shareholders the opportunity to meet new non-executive directors.
Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees, which operate within Information flow clearly defined terms of reference, reporting regularly to the board.
Board and committee papers are circulated to members in advance of the meetings.
The Company Secretary manages the provision of information to the Composition board at other appropriate times, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief The board currently comprises the Chairman, Charles Sinclair, the Chief Executive, Executive.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive George Weston, the Finance Director, John Bason, and four non-executive directors maintain regular contact with all directors.
The Chairman also holds informal who are independent of management and have no relationships which would meetings with non-executive directors, without any of the executives being materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The board present, to discuss any issues affecting the group.
also includes Galen Weston, a non-executive director, who is not regarded as independent in view of his relationship with Wittington Investments Limited.
To keep the non-executive directors informed of events throughout the group between board meetings, regular management updates are sent to each director.
The board considers that the non-executive directors provide a solid foundation This seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors are always kept fully informed for good corporate governance for the group and ensure that no individual or of the latest issues affecting the group.
group dominates the boards decision-making.
Collectively, the non-executive directors bring a wide range of international experience and expertise to the board.
They each occupy or have occupied senior positions in industry or public life and consequently contribute significantly to board decision-making.
Details of the full board are set out on pages 32 and 33.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C orporate governance continued Location of board meetings Board committees Board meetings occasionally take place at the offices of the groups businesses.
Membership of the three key committees was refreshed in April 2009.
Current This further enables non-executive directors to develop their knowledge of the membership of each committee is detailed below.
group and to consult with management and other employees.
Non-executive Nomination committee directors may also make additional visits to our overseas businesses during Current members: Charles Sinclair chairman, Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, the year.
Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, to attend Further details of the Nomination committee can be found on page 38. board meetings and to make presentations on the results and strategies of their business units.
Audit committee Current members: Peter Smith chairman, Tim Clarke, Lord Jay.
Independent professional advice The board has adopted a procedure whereby directors may, in order to comply Further details of the Audit committee can be found on page 39. with their duties and where they judge it necessary, take independent professional Remuneration committee advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
Current members: Charles Sinclair chairman, Tim Clarke, Javier Ferrn, Lord Jay, Company Secretary Peter Smith.
Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Details of the Remuneration committee and its policies can be found on pages who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
Attendance at meetings The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, the Audit committee and Directors are generally provided with the papers for board and committee meetings the Remuneration committee are available on request and from www.
This enables any director who is unable to attend to provide comments to the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant committee or the Company Secretary, who will then relay these comments to the relevant meeting.
The attendance by individual directors at board and committee meetings during the year ended 18 September 2010 was as follows: Audit committee Nomination committee Remuneration committee Full board meeting DIRECTORS Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Charles Sinclair 1 1 4 4 8 8 George Weston 8 8 John Bason 8 8 Tim Clarke 3 3 1 1 4 4 8 8 Javier Ferrn 1 1 4 4 8 8 Lord Jay 3 3 1 1 4 4 8 6 Peter Smith 3 3 1 1 4 4 8 8 Galen Weston 8 3 36 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board evaluation Relations with shareholders Performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and communicates takes place on an annual basis and is conducted with the aim of improving its achievements and prospects to its shareholders in an accurate and timely individual contributions, the effectiveness of the board, its committees and manner.
Apart from the annual general meeting, the Company communicates the performance of the group.
This year the review, which took place in the with its shareholders by way of the annual report and accounts and the interim final quarter of the financial year, was led by the senior independent director.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of the business The process involved putting together a discussion guide which covered designated are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements, topics, with a particular focus this year on board dynamics and effectiveness, by press release and by postings on the Companys website.
The Company corporate governance, risk management and the development of strategy.
also holds meetings with its major institutional shareholders to discuss the The senior independent director undertook a confidential, unattributable interview Companys operations.
with each director and the Company Secretary based on the discussion guide.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders in the event that Particular attention was paid to progress made in implementing the previous communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has years recommendations.
Following the meetings, the senior independent director failed to resolve concerns or where such contact is inappropriate.
produced a written report which was discussed with each of the Chairman and the Chief Executive, before being sent to board members and discussed at the The annual general meeting takes place in London.
Formal notification is sent following meeting.
to shareholders approximately one month in advance and in any event at least 21 days before the meeting.
Other general meetings may also be convened from Among the main themes highlighted by this years evaluation were the time to time on at least 21 days notice, or where certain requirements are met importance of reviewing the development of strategy further and of scrutinising including prior approval by shareholders by way of special resolution, 14 days risk assessment procedures and the processes in place to mitigate risks identified.
The annual general meeting gives shareholders an opportunity to hear A list of action points to deal with the issues arising from the performance about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the evaluation was compiled and is being implemented under the direction of Chairman and, through him, the chairmen of the key committees and other the Chairman.
The practice has been for a short film to be shown at the meeting Overall, the evaluation process in 2010 confirmed that the board and its principal explaining a particular area of the groups business.
Details of the meeting and committees had functioned efficiently during the year and that each director the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory notes, are set out in continued to contribute to his role effectively and with proper commitment, the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders.
Any member attending the including of time.
annual general meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at The board has taken the decision that in future the annual evaluation of the meeting, unless it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order its performance will be externally facilitated at least once every three years.
of the meeting to do so, or if to do so would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
Shareholders attending the meeting are advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
All resolutions are voted on by poll and the results announced to the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C orporate governance continued Accountability and audit Report of the Nomination committee The board is required by the Combined Code to present a balanced and Composition of the Nomination committee understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The members of the Nomination committee who held office during the year In relation to this requirement, reference is made to the statement of directors and at the date of this report are: responsibilities for preparing the financial statements set out on page 54 of this Charles Sinclair chairman annual report and accounts.
Tim Clarke The independent auditors report on page 55 includes a statement by the Javier Ferrn auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises that its Lord Jay responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends Peter Smith to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, reports to regulators, Executive directors may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
and information required to be presented by law.
The Nomination committee leads the process for board appointments by making Going concern recommendations to the board.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when it is dealing existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly and in accordance with the with the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the committee guidance contained in the document titled Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: is chaired by a non-executive director elected by the remaining members.
The Guidance for Investors of UK Companies 2009 published by the FRC, they continue committee met once during the year.
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Duties Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest The Nomination committee is responsible for identifying and nominating, for the The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation where a director approval of the board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
As part of this process, the members of the board Before an appointment is made, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, endeavour to: knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered.
The Nomination consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of the conflicted committee normally uses external advisors to facilitate searches for potential directors duties under the 2006 Act: candidates.
keep records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors The time required from a non-executive director is reviewed annually.
The annual and the scope of any approvals given: and board evaluation is used to assess whether the non-executive director is spending regularly review conflict authorisation.
sufficient time to fulfil his duties.
The Company has complied with these procedures during the year.
The Nomination committee gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the board and from senior management in the future.
The Nomination committee reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and, if appropriate, makes recommendations for changes to the board.
In this respect, the committee has regard to the results of the annual board evaluation.
The committee keeps under review the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete efficiently in the marketplace.
The committee makes recommendations regarding the membership of the Audit committee in consultation with the Audit committee chairman.
38 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Activities Appointments are for a period of three years after which they are subject to The Nomination committee makes recommendations to the board on succession annual review, extendable by additional three-year periods so long as members for executive directors, the reappointment of any non-executive directors at the continue to be independent.
The Audit committee is comprised of a minimum of conclusion of their specified term of office, any matter relating to the continuation three independent non-executive directors at any time.
Two members constitute in office of any director at any time and the appointment of any director to a quorum.
The Audit committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially Corporate website qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy The terms of reference of the Nomination committee, which set out its role Bodies with recent and relevant financial experience.
Currently the committee and the authority delegated to it by the board, are available for inspection at chairman fulfils this requirement.
All committee members are expected to be the Companys registered office and can be viewed on the Companys website.
The formal letters of appointment of non-executive directors are also available The board expects Audit committee members to have an understanding of the for inspection at the Companys registered office.
following areas: Report of the Audit committee the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including the Summary of the role of the Audit committee applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: The Audit committee is responsible for maintaining an appropriate relationship key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate policies and the with the groups external auditors and for reviewing the Companys internal groups internal control environment: audit resources, internal financial controls and the audit process.
It aids the board in seeking to ensure that the financial and non-financial information supplied matters which may influence the presentation of accounts and key figures: to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Companys position.
the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and The Audit committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the external other relevant corporate legislation: auditors and also considers the scope of their work and fees paid for audit and the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: and non-audit services.
the regulatory framework for the groups businesses.
The Audit committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
Meetings Members of the committee may, in pursuit of their duties, take independent The Audit committee meets at least three times each year and has an agenda professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense.
The committee linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
The committee invites the chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the board.
Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in Composition of the Audit committee full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
The members of the Audit committee who held office during the year and at the Other senior managers are invited to present such reports as are required for the date of this report are: committee to discharge its duties.
Peter Smith chairman Tim Clarke Lord Jay Membership of the Audit committee is determined by the board, on the recommendation of the Nomination committee and in consultation with the committee chairman, from amongst the independent, non-executive directors of the Company.
Its terms of reference are set by the board and are modelled closely on the provisions of the Combined Code.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C orporate governance continued Overview of the actions taken by the Audit committee to discharge To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, its duties the Audit committee reviewed: In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee receives and reviews changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the current year: presentations and reports from the groups senior management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and During the year, the Audit committee formally reviewed draft interim and annual reports and associated announcements.
These reviews considered: the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the groups To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee reviewed: financial statements and proposed changes to them: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of important it: and accounting issues, areas of complexity and significant financial reporting reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course of the audit.
judgements: To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Audit litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and committee reviewed: potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with statutory the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the audit as tax obligations.
set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the forthcoming year: The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its responsibilities the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment, controls over financial reporting and the groups compliance with the Combined Code.
the external auditors fee proposal: To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution: the external auditors management letters and audit highlights memoranda: key accounting and audit judgements: internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant deficiencies in the the levels of errors identified during the audit: and financial control environment: recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk management: and and the adequacy of managements response.
reports on frauds perpetrated against the group.
Having satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent, the Audit The Audit committee is responsible for the development, implementation and committee has recommended to the board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed.
monitoring of policies and procedures on the use of the auditor for non-audit Internal audit function services, in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its responsibilities These policies are kept under review to meet the objective of ensuring that the relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of internal audit.
To fulfil group benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge and these duties, the committee reviewed: experience of its auditors whilst also ensuring that the auditors maintain the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Consequently, any non-audit internal audits reporting lines and access to the committee and all members work to be undertaken by the auditor in excess of 300,000 is required to be of the board: authorised by the chairman of the Audit committee and the Group Finance internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: Director prior to its commencement.
Individual assignments less than 300,000 are approved by the Group Finance Director.
The aggregate spend with the group the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of auditor is reviewed by the Audit committee.
managements response and the timeliness of resolution: Typically, the committee will approve the use of the external auditors to provide: statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and timeliness accounting advice and training: employee benefit plan audits: corporate of reporting: responsibility, IT and other assurance services: due diligence in respect of the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal audit: and acquisitions and disposals: certain specified tax services including tax compliance, tax planning and related implementation advice: and certain other services when changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and extent of it is in the best interests of the Company to do so and they can be undertaken significant financial risks and the groups ability to respond to changes without jeopardising auditor independence.
in its business and the external environment.
The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of its auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming that they believe they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations on this matter and their professional standards.
40 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the Company High-level controls Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are updated controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit committee regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and as appropriate.
centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all employees are investigated thoroughly.
and states that all employees have a responsibility for fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should be reported immediately and will be Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital expenditure and investigated vigorously.
These include the preparation of budgets, appraisal and review procedures and delegated authority levels.
The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external auditors after each committee meeting to review key issues within their sphere of interest Internal audit and responsibility.
The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees and resources provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with skills and experience The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the annual general relevant to the operation of each business.
All of the internal audit activities meeting to answer questions on this report, matters within the scope of are co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director of Financial Control, who is the committees responsibilities and any significant matters brought to the accountable to the Audit committee.
committees attention by the external auditors.
All group businesses are required to comply with the groups financial control The full terms of reference of the Audit committee are available on the framework that sets out minimum control standards.
A key function of the Companys website: www.
co. uk groups internal audit resources is to undertake audits to ensure compliance with Internal control the financial control framework and make recommendations for improvement The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups system of internal in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts regular reviews to control to facilitate the identification, assessment and management of risk, the ensure that risk management procedures and controls are observed.
The Audit protection of shareholders investments and the groups assets.
The directors committee receives regular reports on the results of internal audits work and recognise that they are responsible for providing a return to shareholders, monitors the status of recommendations arising.
The committee reviews which is consistent with the responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
annually the adequacy, qualifications and experience of the groups internal audit resources and the nature and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context Effective controls ensure that the group is not exposed to avoidable risk, that of the groups risk management system set out below.
The Director of Financial proper accounting records have been maintained, that the financial information Control meets with the chairman of the committee as appropriate but at least used within the business is reliable and that the consolidated accounts annually, without the presence of executive management, and has direct access preparation and financial reporting processes comply with all relevant regulatory to the Chairman of the board.
The dynamics of the group and the environment within which it operates are continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
Financial reporting The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of assets Detailed management accounts are prepared every four weeks, consolidated in being unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised use and the failure a single system and reviewed by senior management and the board.
They include to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide reasonable a comprehensive set of financial reports and key performance indicators covering and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
commercial, operational, environmental and people issues.
Performance against budgets and forecasts is discussed regularly at board meetings and at meetings The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating between operational and group management.
The adequacy and suitability of and managing the risks faced by the group and the operational effectiveness of key performance indicators is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives and finance the related controls, which has been in place for the year under review and up to directors of the groups operations are asked to sign an annual confirmation that the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
They also confirm that their business has complied with the Group Accounting Manual in the preparation they have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls utilising the review of consolidated financial statements and specifically to confirm the adequacy and process set out below.
Standards There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are also guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that each of the divisions should exercise over specified processes.
Each business has developed and documented policies and procedures to comply with the minimum control standards established, including procedures for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
The board of each business is required to confirm biannually that it has complied with these policies and procedures.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C orporate governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties Across the groups factories, there is almost universal usage of Hazard and The groups risk management process seeks to enable the early identification, Critical Control Points HACCP analysis, which is required by EU law, and evaluation and effective management of the key risks facing the businesses widespread accreditation to the ISO quality standards and British Retail at an operational level and to operate internal controls to mitigate these risks.
Consortium global standards for food safety.
Some Illovo sites outside South The key risks and internal control procedures are reviewed by group personnel Africa have yet to implement HACCP, but extension to these sites is planned.
together with internal audit activities.
Each business is responsible for regularly All businesses have documented and tested product recall procedures, except assessing its risk management activities to ensure good practice in all areas.
British Sugar in China where testing is still to be undertaken, and the incidence Compliance with group requirements is monitored six monthly, and these of product recalls in the last two years has been relatively few.
However, any recall assessments are formally reviewed by group personnel at least annually.
is damaging to customer relationships, and so a renewed focus is being given to The board reviews annually the material, financial and non-financial risks facing this area.
our businesses and, on a rolling cycle basis, reviews the effectiveness of the risk Assurance management processes and the resources that our businesses devote to them.
A number of independent audit processes are in place which provide a level of The Audit committee receives reports on internal financial control issues both assurance on food safety.
All sites are regularly audited by their major customers.
from management and the external auditors and regularly reports to the board Larger customers have their own teams of food safety experts who have a clear for the purposes of the boards annual review.
incentive to ensure that their suppliers have in place robust and effective food The principal corporate risks as identified by each business and reviewed safety and quality processes as well as recall procedures.
All sites also have quality by the board are currently: and food safety audits carried out by local quality control staff.
Additionally, some businesses utilise site audits by their own technical staff and others undertake Food safety cross-site peer audits.
Food safety affects all businesses except Primark.
For businesses that are adequately prepared and managing their processes efficiently, the prospect Global economic slowdown and changing consumer demand of a contamination incident and the risks of product withdrawal and recall are Uncertainty about the global economic outlook, especially for western economies, significantly diminished.
and governmental actions to be taken to reduce budget deficits could have an To manage food safety risks, our manufacturing sites operate food safety systems adverse impact on consumer spending, with clear implications for group revenue which are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain effective and comply with and profitability.
all regulatory requirements for hygiene and food safety.
Our food products are We have a significant number of global brands and any adverse event affecting made to high standards regardless of where they are manufactured and food consumer confidence or continuity of supply of such a brand could have an safety is put before economic considerations.
adverse impact in many of our markets, or in some cases affect intangible asset values.
We support our brands and their growth through competitive levels of Given the diversity of our businesses, the responsibility for managing and investment in advertising and promotions.
The breadth of the business portfolio mitigating this risk lies with the chief executive of each business.
There are, and our geographic reach also help to mitigate general economic risks.
We aim however, several internal mechanisms for exchange of best practice amongst to protect the value of our brands through research and development, product the businesses.
Allied Technical Centre, part of the UK milling and baking business, quality and by operating in accordance with relevant laws and regulations.
provides technical advice on aspects of food safety.
The group technical forum, which was started in 2007, enables senior technical managers from each division These measures are aimed at extending our consumer offerings, reducing the to discuss and share best practice and emerging developments on a wide variety impact of falling consumer demand or of consumers switching to alternative of food safety-related issues including food policy and regulation, quality products, thus allowing us to compete effectively in our key categories management systems and food safety protocols.
Review of food safety processes Input costs, suppliers and supply chain reliance In March 2010, a review of food safety processes at each of the businesses was Primarks ethical trade programme has been further strengthened over the past undertaken by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
This covered quality year and now has a highly experienced ethical trade team of full-time staff control, product security, hygiene, regulatory compliance, product recall procedures supporting the Ethical Trade Director in the UK, Bangladesh, China, India and and incidents over the last two years.
As expected, food safety procedures are Turkey.
During the year, 1,136 audits were completed representing 94% of our a high priority for all our businesses.
While government standards in developing top 250 suppliers and 87% of the products we purchase.
Over half of the audits countries differ from those in developed countries, both AB Agri and British Sugar carried out were follow-up audits, demonstrating our commitment to ensuring regard the higher standards demanded of their Chinese businesses as a our suppliers continue to improve.
We provide support for them through dedicated commercial differentiator from their competitors.
training whether on site in factories or through informal supply training sessions, and online.
42 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Engaging directly with our suppliers is central to our objective of continually accidents are prevented so far as is reasonably practical: and improving working conditions.
With 95% of the factories shared by other effective emergency response procedures are in place to minimise the impact high street brands, we also continue to collaborate with other retailers and of any incidents that do arise.
non-governmental organisations NGOs to address the industry challenges, both through our membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, and Particular attention is paid to recently acquired businesses to ensure they operate externally with non-ETI members.
We have built solid partnerships with a in accordance with the standards we expect from the rest of the group.
number of NGOs to understand and address the challenges faced by workers The principal impacts upon the environment and biodiversity arise from the use in the communities where our products are made, particularly focusing on of energy and the resultant emission of carbon dioxide, the abstraction of water, training workers on their entitlements, including wages and associated rights.
the release of waste water and the generation and disposal of waste.
All sites that Profitable manufacturing is dependent on obtaining adequate supplies of are subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Control regime are also under a production materials in a timely and cost-effective manner.
Prices are significantly statutory duty to minimise energy consumption by use of best available techniques.
influenced by global economic conditions and can fluctuate, which may have an Our manufacturing operations in the UK participate in the UK governments impact on margins and cash flows.
Climate Change Agreement Scheme in which energy-intensive businesses We are also dependent on suppliers and global supply chains as a means of receive an 80% discount from the Climate Change Levy in return for meeting producing and supplying our products.
As a result we are exposed to business energy-efficiency or carbon-saving targets.
The sugar sites in the UK and Spain interruption from natural disasters or catastrophes including floods, droughts participate in the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
These schemes encourage the sites and poor crop harvests, and through additional risks of changes in local legal to reduce energy consumption and therefore reduce emissions of carbon dioxide and regulatory schemes, labour shortages and disruption from environmental cost-effectively.
In addition to the consumption of energy we generate surplus electricity from In the current climate we also face a risk that our suppliers may fail to meet their highly efficient combined heat and power CHP plants and sell this electricity contractual obligations.
Active monitoring of suppliers and the supply chain is in place, to other companies.
All UK CHP plants participate in the UK governments and regular supplier counterparty risk analysis is undertaken to mitigate this risk.
CHP quality assurance scheme and qualify for a full exemption from the UKs Climate Change Levy.
We actively monitor our external environment, review and revisit our business continuity and disaster recovery plans, and continue to adapt our internal cost Carbon dioxide is emitted directly from the combustion of fossil fuels to create structures to deliver products at competitive prices.
steam, heat and electricity at our factories, and indirectly by the power stations from which we buy our electricity.
The use of bagasse sugar cane fibre, which Competition rules is a renewable resource and hence carbon neutral as a fuel in the cane factories The penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Competition Act, the 2003 eliminates the need to use coal and other fossil fuels to provide energy to Enterprise Act, relevant EU law and all relevant competition legislation are our boilers.
recognised as risks to be managed within the group.
Clear policy direction, which includes compulsory awareness training and close support from the in-house legal The principal legal risk is regulatory action for non-compliance with licence department, has reduced the likelihood of the group breaching these regulations.
All of our businesses have named senior executives and responsible managers accountable for waste, and the management Environment of the physical and legal risks, for which they employ specialists, is included in their We recognise the impact that our businesses have on the environment.
as a minimum, we aim to comply with current applicable legislation of the countries in which we operate and our operations are conducted with a view to ensuring that: We use Environmental Resources Management ERM to perform a rolling programme of audits of the management of environmental risks at a representative emissions to air, releases to water and land filling of solid wastes do not have sample of our businesses.
The sites audited are selected on the basis of materiality an unacceptable environmental impact and do not offend the community: as well as their contribution to the health, safety and environmental performance significant plant and process changes are assessed and positively authorised of the group as a whole.
ERM also carry out an independent data assurance process in advance to prevent adverse environmental effects: to verify our safety and environmental data.
Each year the board reviews the verified results and provides strategic direction.
Businesses are required to develop action plans energy is used efficiently and consumption is monitored: as appropriate and progress is monitored by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
natural resources are used efficiently: Details of our management of environmental issues are included in our corporate raw material waste is minimised: responsibility report which is available for download from our website at www.
aspx solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: the amount of packaging used for our products is minimised, consistent with requirements for food safety and product protection: products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, consistent with customers demands, production arrangements and vehicle fleet operations: Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance continued Health and safety Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to Our principal health and safety risks relate to the potential for serious injury and financial instruments and the associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures fatal accidents in the workplace and regulatory action for non-compliance with are set out in note 25 on pages 93 to 105. statutory requirements.
Taxation risks We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace to protect all Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the position taken is employees, visitors and the public from foreseeable work hazards.
Management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether committed to complying with the applicable legislation of the countries in which a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis we operate.
We consider health and safety as equal in importance to that of any of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Any interest and other function of the group and its business objectives.
We require our businesses penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the tax charge.
to improve their safety performance year-on-year.
The group operates internationally and is subject to tax in many different Peoples health and safety at work is a prime responsibility for all those who jurisdictions.
As a consequence, the group is routinely subject to tax audit and local manage and supervise.
All employees and those working on behalf of the Company enquiries which, by their very nature, can take a considerable period to conclude.
have a responsibility for the health and safety of themselves and others who may Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of be affected by their actions.
We ensure that they are well informed, appropriately country-specific tax law and the likely outcome.
trained and are consulted on matters affecting their health and safety.
Loss of a major site and business continuity As with environmental risks, all the groups businesses have named accountable The group operates from many key sites the loss of which, for example as a result senior executives who employ specialists to manage these risks, which form part of a fire, would present significant operational difficulties.
Our operations have of their annual objectives.
business continuity plans in place to manage the impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate the financial consequences.
We use ERM to audit a representative sample of our operations to understand how the businesses manage their risks and to verify the data.
Businesses are required to Major projects develop action plans as appropriate and progress is monitored by the Group Health The group undertakes a number of major capital investment projects, each and Safety Manager.
of which carries the risk of overspending initial cost estimates, overrunning construction timelines and failing to meet design specifications.
All major Details of our management of health and safety issues are included in our projects are managed by dedicated teams who work in close liaison with corporate responsibility report which is available for download from our website business management.
aspx Initial project plans are reviewed by group management and, for larger projects, People by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout the project.
We must compete to obtain capable recruits for the businesses, and then train them in the skills and competencies that are needed to deliver profitable growth.
Management succession At a time of substantial change in the businesses, there is a particular focus on The devolved nature of the group requires us to pay particular attention to the creating alignment and energetic leadership.
The groups performance targets strength of various management teams around the world, with specific focus on require that we have the right calibre of people at all levels.
The status of each divisions succession plan is reviewed with group management twice a year, and with the board, annually.
Development of Financial and commodity risks our senior managers is co-ordinated by the Group HR Director and the Head of Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies Executive Development.
In addition, a small number of executive search companies and guidelines to manage the groups financial and commodity risks.
Financial risks have been briefed to introduce us to talented executives from other companies essentially arise through exposure to foreign currencies, interest rates, counterparty who could add value to the group.
Commodity risks arise from the procurement of raw materials and the exposure to changes in market prices.
Liquidity risk arises from the Regulatory and political environment availability of internal and external funding to enable the group to meet its Our businesses are subject to a wide variety of regulations in the different countries financial obligations as and when they fall due.
They may also be affected by political developments and cultural differences in those countries.
These uncertainties in the external environment Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and committed bank are considered when developing strategy and reviewing performance, and we facilities to meet our expected needs.
An extended period of constraint in the remain vigilant to future changes and the increased risk presented by emerging capital markets, where availability of funds from the bank loan and public debt markets.
We engage with governments and NGOs to ensure the views of our markets might be limited at a time when cash flow is under pressure, might stakeholders are represented and we try to anticipate, and contribute to, important compromise our ability to implement current long-term strategies.
Our financial control requirements are consistently applied Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual financial wherever we operate.
obligations resulting in a loss to the group.
Credit risk arises from cash balances, credit exposures to customers including outstanding receivables, derivative financial instruments, and financial guarantees.
Credit risk is managed at both a group and business level according to internal guidelines, with businesses responsible for their exposure to customer credit risk.
Financial transactions are dealt through financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
44 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010
