ACCOUNTABILITY, AUDIT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK Internal Control and Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Internal Audit function and the Group Risk Committee consider and test effectiveness and report to the Audit Committee and to the Board respectively on their findings.
The Board has reviewed the system of internal control, including financial control for the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against materialmisstatement orloss.
Risk Committee The members of the Risk Committee are the executive directors, certain senior executives and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chief Executive.
As an integral part of planning and review, the management of each of the Global Business Units identifies the risks involved in their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Risk Committee meets twice a year to review the major risks identified by the Global Business Units and any mitigating actions being taken.
As appropriate, the Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
The Risk Committee reports to the Board on an annual basis detailing all significant risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price and by likelihood of occurrence.
Details of new, key or significantly increased risks along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks are reported to the Board as appropriate.
The principal risks identified through this process are detailed in Risk Factorsto be found on pages 18 to 21.
Audit Committee The activities of the Audit Committeeare described in greater detail in pages 50 to 51.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups approach to internal financial control and the operation of the risk management process.
During 2010, the effectiveness of the Global Business Units systems to identify and manage material risks was evaluated and the findings were reported to the Audit Committee.
Nomaterialweaknesses were identified in these systems.
Auditor Independence Policy The Audit Committee has adopted an Auditor Independence Policy which forms part of the Committees Terms of Reference.
This policy governs the conduct of non-audit work by the external auditors.
This prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
Each year, the Audit Committee pre-approves the budget for fees relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been pre-approved, approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required, together with a notification to the Audit Committee of the service and the fees involved.
All services provided by the independent auditors during the year were pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the policy regarding the audit partner rotation in accordance with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules in the US.
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the Group unless two years have expired since their previous involvement with the Group.
Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Because of inherent limitations, internal controls over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all mis-statements.
In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, orthat the degree of compliancewith the policies orprocedures maydeteriorate.
2010Annual Report 55 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
