Board Development Programme A number of training and development opportunities were identified for the Boardduring 2010.
As in previous years, training focused mainly on increasing the Boards understanding of the business and markets in which the Company operates.
Throughout the year, each global business unit presented to the Board on its business and the current challenges it faced.
These themes were explored in greater depth during the two day Strategy Review held in September.
In November, the Board visited the headquarters of the Endoscopy business based in Andover, Massachusetts, meeting with the senior management team and major customers and receiving presentations on our products and processes.
Two formal Board development sessions were also held which gave the Board technical briefings on, amongst other things, UK corporate governance requirements, the UK Bribery Act and remuneration trends and governance matters.
Tailored induction programmes were also held for Genevive Berger and Ian Barlowwho joined the Boardin 2010.
These programmesincluded a series of site visits to some of our principal sites and one to one meetings with members of the senior management teams in the global business units and head office functions.
All directors are encouraged to visit our principal sites and to meet with key members of staff to gain a more detailed understanding of particular areas of interest.
The Chairman continues to keep the training and developmental needs of each director under review.
Review into the Effectiveness of the Board Towards the end of 2010, the Board undertook a review of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of its key Committees.
The review was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary and took the form of a series of one to one discussions between the Company Secretary and individual Directors.
These discussions focused on certain areas identified in the previous effectiveness review.
The review concluded that the Board operated well under the effective leadership of the Chairman.
There was constructive debate within the Boardroom and directors were kept well advised of and consulted on relevant matters arising between meetings.
The Board welcomed the opportunity to meet and engage with members of the management team at site visits and at the Strategy Review.
The Effectiveness Review recognised that a number of improvements had been made to processes and communications during the year and has identified further improvements to be made throughout 2011.
Committees of the Board The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics and Compliance Committees, each of which has its own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary or her designate is secretary to each of the Committees.
For each of the Committees the Chairman of the Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
Audit Committee The principalduties of the Audit Committeeare: Finance and Accounting : - to monitor the integrity of the Groups accounts, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements: this includes reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained in them, reports on compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting policies and practices and any changes to these, accounting and reporting issues, going concern assumptions and anti fraud programmesand controls: - to monitorannouncements relating to the Groups financial performance: Internal Controls: - to monitorthe effectiveness of internal financial controls and review compliancewith s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002: - to review the operation of the Groups risk management process: - to monitorthe controlenvironment mitigating complianceand quality management system risk Audit: - to monitorand review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: - to monitor and review the external auditors performance, the effectiveness of the audit process and their independence, approving their terms of engagement, remuneration and ability to supply non-audit services and recommending for shareholder approval the appointment, re-appointment orremoval of the external auditors, as appropriate: 2010Annual Report 50
