Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HOW WE FULFIL OUR COMMITMENT TO THE COMBINED CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to the principles Summary of our approach to Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate 1 4 Governance that was issued in 2008 by the Board of Directors Accountability and Audit Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership Directors and Auditors A or the Code for which the Board is accountable to and develops strategy, values and standards Responsibilities shareholders in this report: and the UK Corporate while maintaining prudent and effective Directors and Auditors Governance Code the Code 2010 issued in 2010 controls to assess and manage risk.
Responsibilities are set out elsewhere which will replace the Combined Code 2008 for Chairman and Chief Executive in the Annual Report and Accounts.
A the Companys future accounting periods.
While their roles are clearly separated, Going Concern B together the Chairman and the Chief The Company has applied the principles set out The Groups financial statements Executive are responsible for promoting the in section 1 of the Code, as described below and, have been prepared on a going highest standards of integrity and probity.
in connection with Directors remuneration, in the concern basis.
Executive and Non-Executive Directors B Risk Management and C The Executive Directors are responsible Internal Control Statement of Compliance with for implementing strategy and the Non-Executive The Directors are responsible for the Combined Code Directors full a supervisory role and contribute a sound system of internal control.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, to the development of strategy.
The Board is responsible for the Company has complied with the provisions Company Secretary identifying and managing major C set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Company Secretary is responsible business risks.
for facilitating the communications and Internal Audit Function D processes of the Board.
The Company does not currently have Board Balance and Independence an internal audit function: however D The independence of each Non-Executive Directors review at least annually the Director is assessed at least annually with need to establish such a function.
particular scrutiny applied to tenure.
Relations with Shareholders E Reappointment The Executive Directors are E Recommendations for reappointment responsible for ensuring effective are made in consideration of the results communication is maintained with of evaluation, the Boards composition and key stakeholders and partners.
5 Committees Succession and Appointments F The Company has an ongoing process Audit Committee A for assessing the specic competencies Primary responsibilities include required on the Board.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys and the Groups 2 Board Structure and Process systems of internal control and risk The Board typically meets four times a year management, overseeing the selection and operates under a formal framework.
of and relationship with external auditors and the review and monitoring 3 Conflicts of Interest of the integrity of financial statements.
Directors are required to notify the Nominations Committee B Company of any conicts of interest Primary responsibilities include or potential conicts of interest.
making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment and reappointment of Directors and Committee memberships.
Remuneration Committee C This Committee is responsible for recommending for approval by the full Board the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
SOCO International plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce 1 Board of Directors The Executive Directors provide the leadership of the senior managers in the day-to-day running of The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial the Groups business and manage the Groups risk leadership and develop strategy, values and programmes including the environmental, health The Boards role is standards while maintaining prudent and and safety performance of the business.
They must effective controls to assess and manage risk.
ensure the Company has adequate financial and to develop strategy, The Board is responsible for ensuring that human resources to meet its objectives.
They are values and standards the Company meets its obligations to responsible for reporting the performance and stakeholders and has adequate resources strategic direction of the Group to the Board and for while maintaining to meet its strategic objectives.
providing accurate, timely and clear information to prudent controls enable the Board to make sound decisions.
The Board of Directors, whose names and to manage risk biographical details are set out on pages 40 to The Non-Executive Directors, who undertake a 41, comprises ten Directors in addition to the supervisory role, contribute to the development Chairman.
After an assessment process set out in of strategic proposals through constructive probing more detail below, seven of these ten, including the based on review and analysis that brings to bear Senior Independent Director, have been identied the unique skills, experience and knowledge each in the Annual Report of the Directors on page 43 as brings to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors independent in character and judgement giving full review managements performance and ensure Board Balance and Independence D consideration to those circumstances that the Code that the systems in place provide adequate and The Board embraces the underlying states may appear relevant.
Notwithstanding this, effective financial, operational and compliance principles of the Code provisions regarding tenure the Board is satisfied that each of the Companys controls and risk management.
They must be and refreshing of the Board, and seeks to strike Directors strictly abides by their legal and ethical satisfied that they have sufficient information an appropriate balance between continuity of duties owed to the Company to act objectively and for the discharge of their duties, which may be experience and succession.
The Board recognises in the best interests of the Company and its achieved through dialogue with management, that an individuals independence cannot be shareholders as a whole.
training where appropriate to update their determined arbitrarily on the basis of a set period knowledge or skills and consultation with of time, or by a set period of concurrent tenure Chairman and Chief Executive independent professional advisors as required.
Each of the NonA The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Executive Directors tenure has run concurrently officer are separated and their responsibilities are Company Secretary with the Companys Executive Directors, both of C clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by The Company Secretary, who is appointed whom have been in ofce from the Companys the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive by the Board, is responsible for facilitating the initial listing.
The Company manages a portfolio collectively are responsible for the leadership of communications and processes of the Board, of long term, complex projects and benets from the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the both within the Board and its committees and long serving Directors with detailed knowledge leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness with management, in compliance with Board of the Companys operations and with the proven on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
The commitment, experience and competence to The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the Secretary facilitates an induction programme effectively advise and oversee the Companys executives and ensuring their effectiveness in on appointment that is tailored to a new Directors management on behalf of shareholders.
The the running of the Companys business and individual qualications and experience.
The Company seeks to ensure its Directors are implementing strategy and policy.
Together Secretary provides advice and service as may focused on a long term approach, and does the Chairman and Chief Executive officer are be required in the ongoing discharge of the not impose xed term limits as this would assure responsible for promoting the highest standards Directors duties, including ensuring that the a loss of experience and knowledge without of integrity and probity.
Company provides the necessary resources for assurance of increased independence.
access to independent advice and any individual Accordingly, the Boards assessment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors professional training and development needs independence is of prime importance to ensure B Executive Directors are responsible for agreed with each Director.
Additionally, brieng that retention of experience does not result in implementing the Boards agreed strategy through sessions are provided in the course of regular a failure to retain a sufficient contingent of the development of an appropriate business plan Board meetings and Committee meetings on independent Directors.
and for executing actions approved by the Board in relevant issues as deemed appropriate, including accordance with relevant authorities.
The division in relation to corporate governance and social The independence of each Non-Executive Director of responsibilities between the Executive Directors responsibility as well as new and evolving is assessed at least annually.
To be identied as is set by the Board.
statutory and other compliance matters.
independent a Director must be determined SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED independent in character and judgement and free affected their independence or their ability to from any relationships or circumstances which bring judgement to bear in the discharge of their are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their duties as Board and Committee members.
The judgement including in particular those set out Board considers that the varied and relevant SOCO maintains in the Code.
Particular scrutiny is applied in experience of its independent Directors combined assessing the continued independence of to provide an exceptional balance of skills and an open and active Directors having served over nine years, with experience required for the business.
attention to ensuring that interactions with dialogue with Executive Directors have not in any way eroded Reappointment E shareholders their independence and that their allegiance In accordance with the Companys remains clearly aligned with shareholders.
Articles of Association, Directors are subject Board refreshment and tenure are considered to reappointment at least every three years.
together, and weighed for relevant benefit in Notwithstanding this, in consideration of Code the foreseeable circumstances, given further 2010 provisions the Company will voluntarily that the Board should not be enlarged to a size submit all Directors, offering themselves for that is unwieldy.
reappointment, for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of Shareholders AGM.
In conducting its current assessment the Board Reappointment is recommended in consideration referred to guidance setting out criteria deemed of the results of individual evaluation and relevant to determining whether a Director demonstrated continued satisfactory performance, continues to exhibit those qualities and behaviours commitment and effectiveness.
Consideration is it considers essential to be considered independent.
given to the broad capabilities represented on the A specic set of focused criteria was applied to the Board and the ability of these to meet the unique assessment of long tenured Directors.
Consideration is Consideration was also given to the results of additionally given to the balance of the Boards individual evaluation and continued satisfactory composition and the need for refreshment.
Following assessment, Ambassador A Non-Executive Director term exceeding six Antnio Monteiro and Mr Martin Roberts were years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
Mr Robert Cathery The process for considering reappointments and Dr Mike Watts were determined to be is described more fully in the Nominations independent despite former roles as a director of Committee section below.
Following this process a former Company advisor and as a cross-director the Board recommends the reappointment of with the Chief Executive, respectively.
These those retiring Directors who have offered relationships have ceased and are not relevant to themselves for reappointment.
the determination of independence under the Code.
Any current outside links to other Directors are not Succession and Appointments F considered significant and in particular do not result The Company has an ongoing process for in reciprocal inuence.
assessing the specic competencies required on the Board.
Due to the nature of its business, the After particular scrutiny, Mr Peter Kingston, Companys expectation of a Non-Executive Mr John Norton and Mr Olivier Barbaroux, each Directors most appropriate term of ofce is having served on the Board for more than nine generally longer than that envisioned in Code years, were determined to be independent.
The Company undertakes projects Each of these Directors continues to display requiring long term cycles from licence negotiation an appropriate independence from Executive to first production, requiring Directors to be focused Directors.
They each continue to express on long term objectives and benefiting from their individual viewpoints, debate issues continuity of experience throughout the process.
and objectively scrutinise and challenge In South East Asia, a large, complex development management.
Each seeks clarification and project of major signicance to the Company is amplication as deemed required, including under way in Vietnam, is scheduled to commence through direct access to the Groups employees production in 2011 and will require several and external advisors.
After careful consideration additional years to fully complete.
Additionally, the of the relevant factors, the Board has determined Company is advancing its Africa portfolio further that the tenure of these Directors has not through the exploration phase, designing its future SOCO International plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce programme on the basis of experience and can be achieved.
The Board operates within a connected persons.
The decision to authorise information derived from the past programme.
formal framework of decision making designed to each situation is considered separately on its reserve matters of establishing the strategy, particular facts.
Only Directors who have no After assessment of the competencies required business plan and nature or scope of the interest in the matter are able to take the on the Board, the current Non-Executive Directors Companys business to the Board.
Under this relevant decision, and must act in a way they comprise an appropriate balance of skills and framework, authority for implementing the strategy consider, in good faith, will be most likely to experience.
Those Non-Executive Directors and decisions taken by the Board is largely promote the Companys success.
The Directors reappointed in 2010 included two Directors newly delegated to the Executive Directors and will impose such limits or conditions as they appointed in 2009, along with three longstanding management within a system of internal controls deem appropriate when giving authorisation Directors who have acquired, over a number of designed to enable the risks of the Group to be or when an actual conict arises.
These may years, a sound and detailed knowledge of the managed effectively.
Additionally, the Board has include provisions relating to condential Companys business and are uniquely qualied established clear expectations for the Companys information, attendance at Board meetings to contribute to the Companys leadership.
The economic, social and environmental conduct to and availability of Board papers, along with Company believes this succession allowed a promote the highest level of integrity and honesty other measures as determined appropriate.
balanced benefit from both refreshment and in meeting its obligations to its stakeholders.
The Board reviews its conict authorisations continuity.
As stated in the 2009 Annual Report at least annually.
and Accounts, the Company planned a period of SOCOs Board membership comprises a broad induction and assimilation to be followed by a range of skills, knowledge and experience, which 4 continued phased succession, again seeking to is critical to the success of the Company.
The Accountability and Audit benefit from refreshment while maximising Board functions as a unitary body, within which continuity of experience.
Directors assume certain roles to ensure the Board Directors and Auditors Responsibilities A as a whole fulls its responsibilities.
These roles, The responsibilities of the Directors and In accordance with this plan, following a dedicated including Committee memberships, are designed auditors are set out in the Annual Report of the and productive contribution to the Board, Mr Peter to maximise the effective contribution of each of Directors on pages 42 to 45 and in the Independent Kingston will retire at the 2011 AGM to devote the Non-Executive Directors to the Board, its Auditors Report on page 65. additional time to his other business interests.
An Committees and to the Executive Directors, while additional vacancy arising upon the retirement of Mr ensuring an appropriate balance is maintained.
Going Concern B Martin Roberts, having found it necessary to reduce The composition of the Board and its Committees The Groups financial statements have been his business interests generally, is being assimilated is in accordance with Code guidelines.
No Director prepared on a going concern basis as described into the Boards planning.
As described in the serves on more than two committees.
At least in the Financial Review on page 20 and the Annual Nominations Committee section below, the Company annually, the Non-Executive Directors meet without Report of the Directors on page 42. is undertaking a process to identify independent the Executives present and, led by the Senior Non-Executive Director candidates who could add Independent Director, meet without the Chairman Risk Management and Internal Control C value to the Board through complementary present.
Such meetings are conducted in the spirit The Directors are responsible for establishing, qualications.
Board roles, including Committee of good governance and process, and are intended maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of a membership and chairmanship, are additionally to ensure a forum for open dialogue without sound system of internal control which is designed under review as part of this process.
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial information and to safeguard the shareholders investment and the assets of the 2 Board Structure and Process 3 Conflicts of Interest Company and Group.
Given the inherent limitations in any system of internal control, even a sound The Board typically has four scheduled meetings Directors have power to authorise, where system can only provide reasonable assurance, and a year and holds additional meetings as necessary.
appropriate, a situation where a Director has, not absolute assurance, that the Company will not During 2010, the Board held five scheduled or can have, a direct or indirect interest that be hindered in achieving its business objectives or meetings as deemed required for the effective conicts, or possibly may conict, with the be protected against material misstatement or loss.
discharge of its duties during the period.
Such authority is in Attendance of Directors at scheduled Board accordance with section 175 of the 2006 The Board has put in place formally dened meetings and attendance of members at the Companies Act.
Procedures are in place lines of responsibility and delegation of authority Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees for ensuring that the Boards powers of and has delegated to executive management is set out in the table on page 53. authorisation are operated effectively.
Directors the implementation of material internal control are required to notify the Company of any systems.
Documented policies and procedures The Board determines the Companys business conicts of interest or potential conicts of are in place for key systems and processes strategy and provides the entrepreneurial interest that may arise, before they arise either and the authority of the Directors is required leadership required to ensure its strategic aims in relation to the Director concerned or his for key matters.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED A comprehensive budgeting process is in place The Board has performed a specic assessment taken on a show of hands.
Directors including for all items of expenditure and an annual budget for the purpose of this Annual Report and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and is approved by the Board.
Actual results are Accounts, which considers all significant aspects Nominations Committees are available to answer reported against budget on a regular basis.
of internal control arising during the period, and is shareholder questions and to respond to any Revised forecasts for the year and longer term satisfied with the process employed and the results specic queries.
financial projections are produced regularly thereof.
The Audit Committee spearheads the throughout the year.
Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The Company has assigned a senior executive Audit Committee membership comprises highly the responsibility for investor relations and has The Board has the primary responsibility for experienced professionals with complementary employed an outside agency, both to provide identifying the major business risks facing the areas of expertise in the oil and gas sector and assistance in the dissemination of information Company and Group and developing appropriate each Committee member makes an important to shareholders and the general public and to policies to manage those risks.
The risk contribution to the assurance process.
Each actively solicit feedback as to the effectiveness of management approach is used to focus attention member undertakes specic review processes in such efforts.
Additionally, the Company maintains on the Groups most significant areas of risk and their areas of financial and audit, technical and an ongoing, active dialogue with institutional to determine key control objectives.
The Board operating, diplomatic and commercial and legal shareholders, specically and proactively seeking has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code, expertise and reports the results of their work to opportunities for face-to-face meetings at least by establishing a continuous process, which has the full Committee and to the Board.
twice a year, coincident with half year and full been in place throughout the year to the date of year results, between fund managers and this report and which is in accordance with Internal Audit Function Company executive management.
D revised guidance on internal control published by Although the Company does not currently the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005, have an internal audit function, the Directors Brokers reports are discussed at scheduled Board for identifying, evaluating and managing the review at least annually the need to establish such meetings and public relations and analysts reports significant risks the Group faces.
The Companys current staff size limits are distributed to the full Board.
A Non-Executive the ability to form an effective internal audit Director maintains regular communications with The Board regularly reviews the process, which function and, accordingly, the Company SOCOs major institutional shareholders, reports is constantly evolving to meet the demands of a outsources any internal audit requirements.
feedback directly to the Board and advises the dynamic environment.
Board when additional communication from the Relations with Shareholders Chairman, Senior Independent or other NonE In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the The Executive Directors are responsible for Executive Directors has been requested.
The Combined Code, the effectiveness of the Groups ensuring effective communication is maintained Chairman regularly interfaces with other principal system of internal control, including financial, with key stakeholders and partners, including shareholders.
The Board considers whether operational and compliance controls and risk establishing an appropriate level of contact with additional communication may be appropriate management, is regularly reviewed by the major shareholders and ensuring that their views or desirable.
In particular, the delegated role of Directors.
The review is based principally on are communicated to the Board.
The Nonthe Senior Independent Director includes being discussions with management and on reviewing Executive Directors are responsible for taking available to shareholders if they have concerns reports provided by management to consider sufficient steps to understand these views, which cannot be fully or appropriately addressed whether significant risks are identied, evaluated, including any issues or concerns.
by the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
managed and controlled, but also may include independent interaction with employees or third SOCO maintains an open and active dialogue with parties.
Particular scrutiny is applied to the review shareholders.
The Company maintains a website 5 Committees of controls applicable to new or evolving areas of wherein important information can be posted and risks as they are identied.
disseminated promptly to a wide audience and The Board has established three Committees, through which shareholders can electronically as described below, each having formal terms The Board considers whether appropriate actions interface with executive management.
At a of reference TOR approved by the Board which are taken promptly to correct any significant minimum, the Company provides three personal set out its delegated role and authority.
The TORs, weaknesses identied, and if more extensive communication forums annually the AGM, which are available for inspection, are set in monitoring may be required.
The Board confirms the presentation of Annual Results and the consideration of the provisions of the Combined that such actions as deemed necessary and presentation of Half Year Results whereby Code and are reviewed from time to time in the appropriate have been or are being taken to remedy shareholders can directly interface with Company context of evolving guidance.
Each Directors any significant failings or weaknesses identied in executive management.
Notice of the AGM is specic Committee memberships, including as its review.
The Board seeks to ensure that internal circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working Chairmen, are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Whilst control and risk management processes, including days prior to the meeting, and resolutions are only Committee members are entitled to attend dealing with any identied areas of improvement, proposed for each substantially separate issue.
The meetings, other Directors are invited to attend are embedded within the business.
result of proxy voting is announced after votes are from time to time to ensure the Committees SOCO International plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce responsibilities are undertaken with access to the which were attended by executive management Boards full breadth of knowledge and experience.
A private session, without The Company Secretary ensures that the Company executives present, was held during two of these additionally provides such resources as the meetings.
Additionally, a number of other informal The Board seeks Committees require in the discharge of their duties.
meetings and communications took place between the Chairman, various Committee members, to ensure that Audit Committee external auditors and the Companys executives A The Audit Committees primary responsibilities and employees.
internal control and include reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management Companys and the Groups systems of internal Overview of Activities processes are control, overseeing the selection of and relationship The Committee reviewed and approved the terms with external auditors and the review and and scope of the audit engagement, the audit embedded within monitoring of the integrity of financial statements.
plan and the results of the audit with the external The Committee is responsible for review of the auditors, including the scope of services the business Groups major financial, operational and corporate associated with audit related regulatory reporting responsibility risk management processes.
An assessment of the effectiveness of effectiveness of these processes is monitored on the audit process was made, giving consideration a continuous basis and a formal assessment is to reports from the auditors on their internal conducted at least annually.
The Committee has quality procedures.
Additionally, auditor been delegated the responsibility for advising the independence and objectivity were assessed, full Board on compliance with the Combined Code, giving consideration to the auditors conrmation including its risk management and internal control that their independence is not impaired, the requirements, as well as compliance with evolving overall extent of non-audit services provided by guidance on corporate governance issues generally.
the external auditors as described further below and the past service of the auditors who were first Composition of the Audit Committee appointed in 2002.
The Committee also The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Peter considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of Kingston, the Senior Independent Non-Executive the auditor from the market and noted that there Director, and additionally comprises Mr John are no contractual obligations to restrict the Norton, Mr Martin Roberts, Ambassador Antnio choice of external auditors.
The Board concurred Monteiro and Dr Mike Watts who are with the Committees recommendation for the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys qualications of each of the members are set auditors for 2011. out on pages 40 and 41 The Board is satisfied that the collective experience of the members The Committee undertook a detailed risk includes relevant and recent financial experience assessment whereby it reviewed existing risks and and provides the complement of skills required identied new risks as appropriate.
The likelihood for the Committee to discharge its functions and signicance of each risk was considered effectively.
In particular, Mr Norton is a along with associated mitigating factors and was Chartered Accountant and former member reported to the Board.
Any new, or changes to of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
existing risks were monitored throughout the year and considered at each Audit Committee meeting.
Meetings The Audit Committee meets at least three times The Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied a year.
The Chief Financial officer and a with, the Companys arrangements whereby representative of the external auditors are normally staff may raise concerns regarding improprieties invited to attend meetings.
Other Directors are in confidence, which would be addressed with invited to attend as determined appropriate or appropriate follow-up action.
On behalf of the beneficial.
At least once a year the Committee Board, the Committee has reviewed the meets with the external auditors without executive effectiveness of the Companys internal controls Board members present.
and risk management systems, including consideration of an internal audit function, which The Committee held three meetings in 2010 and is more fully described in the Risk Management has conducted one meeting to date in 2011, all of and Internal Control section of this report.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee has reviewed and approved the terms on which the Remuneration Committee, During the year the Committee reviewed Board related compliance statements set out therein.
with approval of the Audit Committee, has structure, size and composition, including a independently appointed the Companys auditors prole of the skills, knowledge and experience The Committee has additionally reviewed and as advisors.
The advisors terms of reference represented on the Board, which was utilised approved the statements regarding compliance restrict the provision of certain services in order to facilitate the Boards review of Director with the Combined Code.
The Committee to maintain auditor independence and the scope independence, including tenure in particular.
reviewed and discussed with management and value of services to the Group is under The Committee made recommendations to the and the auditors the Companys relevant financial continuous review.
Board concerning plans for succession reecting information prior to recommendation for Board the need for refreshment while taking into approval.
This included in particular the financial The Committee approved the non-audit services account the skills and experience needed on the statements and other material information provided by the external auditors in 2010, having Board to meet the specic challenges and presented in the annual and half year reports.
concluded such services were compatible with opportunities facing the Company.
The results of The Committee considered the significant auditor independence and were consistent with these reviews were in turn utilised in developing financial reporting issues, accounting policies relevant ethical guidance.
In particular, the the Committees recommendations regarding and judgements impacting the financial external auditors provided services associated potential Board appointments as well as for statements, and the clarity of disclosures.
with the disposal of the Groups Thailand continuation in ofce and reappointment of The Committee conducted a review of its TOR interest, which was determined cost effective retiring Directors.
due to their knowledge of the Group without posing a threat to independence.
Details of After giving consideration to Board structure External Auditors Non-Audit Services non-audit services are set out in Note 9 to and composition, evaluations, time commitments, During 2010, the Audit Committee adopted a new the financial statements.
length of service, individual contributions, policy on the provision of non-audit services which refreshment and the requirements of the Board, sets out those services which the external auditors Nominations Committee the Committee recommended that each of B may provide and those which are prohibited.
The The Nominations Committee is chaired by the retiring Directors offering to stand for external auditors are appointed primarily to carry Mr Rui fide Sousa, the Non-Executive Chairman reappointment be proposed by the Board at out the statutory audit, and their continued of the Company.
It additionally comprises Mr Ed the forthcoming AGM.
independence and objectivity is fundamental to that Story, the Chief Executive officer, and Mr Olivier role.
In view of their knowledge of the business, Barbaroux, Mr John Norton, Mr Robert Cathery Process for Board Appointments there may be occasions when the external auditors and Dr Mike Watts, who are independent The Committee has a process in place for are best placed to undertake other services on Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets identifying and nominating candidates to ll behalf of the Group.
However, they are precluded at least once a year.
Its primary responsibilities vacancies which may arise from time to time, from providing any service that would impair their include making recommendations to the Board including ensuring Board membership is independence or objectivity.
regarding the appointment and reappointment sufciently refreshed and retains an appropriate of Directors and Committee memberships.
It is balance of skills and experience.
The Committee The Audit Committees policy is to pre-approve responsible for review and recommendations develops an appropriate description of the role, all non-audit services provided by the external regarding overall Board structure and estimated time commitment and the capabilities auditors.
Before approving a non-audit service, composition, succession planning and which would complement the composition of consideration is given to whether the materiality establishing an ongoing process for evaluating the Board and its Committees.
The Committee of the fees, the nature of the service, or the the Board and its members.
would expect to utilise an independent external level of reliance to be placed on it by SOCO advisor to facilitate any search.
A diverse list of would create, or appear to create, a threat to The Committee held two meetings in 2010 and candidates is compiled and a rigorous review independence.
If it is determined that such a has conducted one meeting to date in 2011. process undertaken, involving other Board threat might arise, approval will not be granted Other Non-Executive Directors were in members as deemed appropriate.
Committee unless the Audit Committee is satisfied that attendance at a portion of these meetings by recommendations, which are to be made on appropriate safeguards are applied to ensure invitation.
Certain Committee functions were merit, against objective criteria and with due independence and objectivity are not impaired.
delegated to a sub-committee, which acted on regard for the benets of diversity, are submitted The auditor is prohibited from providing any behalf of the Committee after an appropriate for full Board approval.
The Company Secretary services which result in certain circumstances dialogue among Committee members to ensure facilitates induction upon appointment.
The that have been deemed to present such a threat, a consensus of views.
Additionally, a number of Committee is currently conducting a search including auditing their own work, taking other informal meetings and communications utilising this process to identify successful management decisions for the Group or creating took place between the Chairman, various candidates who are independent, present either a mutuality or conict of interest.
Committee members and the Companys complementary skills and will provide Additionally, the Committee closely monitors the executives and employees.
refreshment to the Board and its Committees.
SOCO International plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce Performance Evaluation be conducted at least every three years, the During 2010, the Committee led the Board in Committee plans to utilise an external facilitator evaluating its own performance and that of its in its 2011 evaluation of the Boards performance.
The The Board plans to Company Secretary facilitated compilation of the Remuneration Committee C results.
The Senior Independent Director The Remuneration Committee is chaired utilise an external facilitated relevant discussions regarding the role by Mr Peter Kingston, the Senior Independent facilitator in its of the Chairman.
The process was undertaken for Non-Executive Director, and additionally the purpose of adding value to the quality of comprises Mr Olivier Barbaroux, Mr Martin 2011 evaluation the Board and its procedures through identifying Roberts, Mr Robert Cathery and Ambassador of its performance and addressing strengths and weaknesses.
Antnio Monteiro, who are independent The process was utilised to assess Director Non-Executive Directors.
The names and effectiveness and the time commitments of qualifications of each of the members are Non-Executive Directors.
Additionally, it was set out on pages 40 and 41.
The Committee utilised to assess training and development needs is responsible for recommending for approval of each Director, which were reviewed by the by the full Board the remuneration of the Chairman in accordance with Code 2010.
Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Actions for improvement were undertaken Company Secretary.
During 2010, the as deemed appropriate.
The Committee performed Committee conducted a review of its TOR a review of its TOR as part of this process.
Details of the Committees policies and objectives are set In accordance with Code 2010, wherein an out in the Directors Remuneration Report externally facilitated evaluation of the Board should on pages 54 to 61.
Meeting Attendance by Directors and Committee Members Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Meeting Meeting Meeting R fide Sousa }}}}} }} P Kingston }}}}} }}} }} O Barbaroux }}}}} }} }} R Cagle }}}}} R Cathery }}}}} }} }} E Contini }}}}} A Monteiro }}}}} }}} }} J Norton }}}}} }}} }} M Roberts }}}}} }}} }} E Story }}}}} }} M Watts }}}}} }}} }} } Denotes a scheduled meeting attended } Denotes a scheduled meeting not attended SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53
