Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Report The Board holds an annual strategy review day, which is attended by all SET members.
The CEO, the CFO and the SET take the lead in developing our strategy, which is then reviewed, constructively challenged and approved by the Board at the strategy review day.
Michele Hooper, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2003, was appointed as our Senior independent Non-Executive Director in April 2007.
The role of the Senior independent Director is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
The Senior independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman or Executive Directors has failed to resolve, or for which such contact Louis Schweitzer is inappropriate.
Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee There are four principal Board Committees the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination and Governance Committee and the Science Committee.
The membership and The Board regards the setting, maintenance work of these Committees is described below.
In addition, there may from time to time be constituted ad hoc Board Committees and review of high standards of corporate for specic projects or tasks.
In these cases, the scope and governance as an essential part of our work.
responsibilities of the Committee are documented.
The Board During 2010, we reviewed the revised UK provides adequate resources to enable each Committee to undertake its duties.
Corporate Governance Code and no significant changes were required to our corporate Reserved matters and delegation of authority governance practices as a result.
The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters that are reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
These include: the appointment, termination and remuneration of any In this part of the Annual Report, we explain Director: approval of the annual budget: any item of xed capital our approach to corporate governance and expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition or disposal of an investment or business which exceeds $150 million: the raising describe, in general terms, how our business is of capital or loans by the Company subject to certain exceptions : organised and managed.
the giving of any guarantee in respect of any borrowing of the Company: and allotting shares of the Company.
The matters that Corporate governance have not been expressly reserved to the Board are either delegated We have prepared this Annual Report with reference to the by the Board to its Committees or to the CEO.
Combined Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 and the new UK Corporate Governance Code The CEO is responsible to the Board for the management, published by the FRC in May 2010 together, the UK Corporate development and performance of our business in relation to those Governance Codes.
This Report together with other sections matters in respect of which he has been delegated authority from of this Annual Report describes how we apply the main principles the Board.
of good governance in the UK Corporate Governance Codes.
We have complied throughout the accounting period with the Although the CEO retains full responsibility for the authority provisions of the Combined Code.
Although the new UK Corporate delegated to him by the Board, he has established and chairs Governance Code only applies for accounting periods beginning the SET, which is the vehicle through which he exercises certain on or after 29 June 2010, we have taken the decision to comply with of that authority in respect of our business.
the new provisions, in line with best practice, since its publication in May 2010.
Both the Combined Code and UK Corporate The roles of the Board, the Board Committees, the Chairman, the Governance Code are available on the FRCs website, frc.
CEO and the SET are documented, as are the Boards delegated authorities and reserved powers, the means of operation of the Leadership business, and the roles of corporate functions.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are split.
Louis Schweitzer, our Non-Executive Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board.
Operation of the Board Our CEO, David Brennan, leads the SET and has executive The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, responsibility for running our business.
The Board comprises 10 oversight of risk and corporate governance, and also monitors Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two progress towards meeting our objectives and annual plans.
The Executive Directors the CEO and the CFO, Simon Lowth.
Board discharges these responsibilities through a programme of meetings that includes regular reviews of financial performance All Directors are collectively responsible for our long-term success.
and critical business issues, and the formal, annual strategy review In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for day.
The Board also aims to ensure that a good dialogue with our exercising independent, objective judgement in respect of Board shareholders takes place and that their issues and concerns are decisions and for scrutinising and challenging the actions of understood and considered.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 109 Corporate Governance Report The Board held six meetings and its annual strategy review day Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a Director of Astra in May 1989 and subsequently became a Director of the Company in 1999. in 2010.
All the meetings took place in London, UK.
The Board is currently scheduled to meet six times and hold a strategy review Until September 2005, he was a member of the board of directors and the Chief Executive officer of Investor AB, which has a 3.7% day in 2011, and will meet at such other times as may be required to conduct business.
interest in the issued share capital of the Company as at 27 January 2011.
Wallenberg family foundations remain Investor ABs largest shareholders in terms of votes controlled.
For these reasons, the As part of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically Board does not believe that Marcus Wallenberg can be determined submits a progress report on each key business area, giving details independent under the UK Corporate Governance Codes.
of progress against the goals the Board has approved.
To ensure However, the Board believes that he has brought, and continues that the Board has good visibility of the key operating decisions of to bring, considerable business experience and makes a valuable the business, members of the SET routinely attend Board meetings contribution to the work of the Board.
on a rotational basis and Board members regularly meet other senior executives throughout the year.
The Board also receives accounting and other management information about our The Board has also considered, in particular, the position of Michele Hooper who joined the board of UnitedHealth Group as a Nonresources, and presentations from internal and external speakers on legal, governance and regulatory developments.
At the end of Executive Director in 2007.
The Boards approval of this appointment was conditional on Michele Hooper resigning from the board of Board meetings, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present to review and discuss any matters that UnitedHealth Group in the event of a conict or non-independence.
It is the Boards view that Michele Hooper is independent and that have arisen during the meeting and or such other matters as may appear to the Non-Executive Directors to be relevant in properly she discharges her duties in a properly independent manner, constructively and appropriately challenging the Executive Directors discharging their duty to act independently.
Board effectiveness Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of AmerisourceBergen Composition of the Board The Nomination and Governance Committee and, where Corporation and CIGNA Corporation, both of which are customers of the Group in the US.
The Board has considered these appropriate, the full Board regularly review the composition of the Board and the status of succession to both senior executive relationships and concluded that they did not compromise her independence.
Directors have regular contact with, and access to, succession candidates for senior executive management positions.
Conicts of interest The Articles enable the Directors to authorise any situation in The Board aims to maintain a balance in terms of the range of which a Director has an interest that conicts or has the potential to conict with the Companys interests and which would otherwise be experience and skills of individual Board members, which includes relevant international business, pharmaceutical industry and a breach of the Directors duty, under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to financial experience, as well as appropriate scientific and regulatory knowledge.
The biographies of Board members set out on pages declare such situations to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
106 to 107 give more information about current Directors in this respect.
The Board views gender, nationality and cultural diversity In deciding whether to authorise a situation, the non-conicted Directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would among Board members as important considerations when reviewing the composition of the Board.
The following changes be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or to the composition of the Board have occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report: subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Situations considered by the Board and authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conicts maintained by the Company Bo Angelin and John Buchanan, both Non-Executive Directors, Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board retired from the Board on 29 April 2010. considers that this system continues to operate effectively.
Bruce Burlington was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee with effect from Appointments to the Board 1 August 2010.
Shriti Vadera was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a The Nomination and Governance Committee section on page 115 gives information about the appointment process for new Directors.
member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2011.
Independence of the Non-Executive Directors Newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive During 2010, the Board considered the independence of each documentation containing information about the Group and their Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the UK Corporate role as Non-Executive Directors.
They also typically attend tailored Governance Codes and the corporate governance listing standards induction programmes that take account of their individual skills of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the exception of Marcus and experience.
Wallenberg, the Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are independent.
Louis Schweitzer was considered by Time commitment the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman: Our expectation is that Non-Executive Directors should be prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test to commit about 15 days per annum, as a minimum, to the Groups of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after business.
In practice, Board members time commitment usually his appointment.
exceeds this minimum expectation when all the work that they undertake for the Group is considered, particularly in the case of the Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
As well as their work in relation to formal Board and Board Committee meetings, the Non-Executive Directors also commit time throughout the year to meetings and telephone calls with various levels of executive management, visits to AstraZenecas sites throughout the world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, induction sessions, meetings and site visits.
110 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and Governance 1 Bo Angelin 2 2 David Brennan 6 6 2 John Buchanan 2 2 2 2 1 3 3 Bruce Burlington 3 3 Jean-Philippe Courtois 5 6 3 4 Jane Henney 5 6 4 4 4 6 Michele Hooper 6 6 4 4 6 6 Simon Lowth 6 6 4 Rudy Markham 6 6 3 4 4 4 Nancy Rothwell 5 6 6 7 Louis Schweitzer 6 6 7 7 6 6 John Varley 5 6 7 7 5 6 5 Marcus Wallenberg 4 6 1 Bo Angelin retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
2 John Buchanan retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
3 Bruce Burlington was appointed as a Director with effect from 1 August 2010.
4 Rudy Markham was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
5 Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a member of the Science Committee with effect from 28 April 2010.
On occasions when a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board As part of the assessment process, each Non-Executive Director or Board Committee meeting, for example through illness or where received feedback about his or her individual performance.
The a meeting clashes with his or her existing commitments, he or she Non-Executive Directors reviewed the performance of the CEO still receives and reviews the papers for the meeting and typically and CFO in their absence.
In addition, the Board, under the provides verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, usually chairmanship of the Senior independent Non-Executive Director, through the Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of the Board reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his absence.
Each Committee, so that his or her views are made known and Director continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate considered at the meeting.
In addition, given the nature of the commitment to the role.
business to be conducted, some Board meetings are convened at short notice, which can make it difficult for some Directors to The last occasion on which the Boards annual performance attend due to prior commitments.
evaluation was externally facilitated was in 2008 and the Board intends to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code Information and support guidance that the evaluation should be externally facilitated at least The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring every three years.
that all Board and Board Committee meetings are properly conducted, that the Directors receive appropriate information prior Re-election of Directors to meetings to enable them to make an effective contribution, and In accordance with Article 66 of the Articles, all Directors retire that governance requirements are considered and implemented.
at each AGM and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
Accordingly, all the Directors will retire at the AGM The Company maintained directors and ofcers liability insurance in April 2011.
The Notice of AGM will give details of those Directors cover throughout 2010.
The Directors are also able to obtain seeking re-election.
independent legal advice at the expense of the Company, as necessary, in their capacity as Directors.
Accountability Risk management and internal control The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of The Non-Executive Directors have various responsibilities each Board member since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are still concerning the integrity of financial information, internal controls in force and provide that the Company shall indemnify the Directors and risk management.
to the fullest extent permitted by law and the Articles, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company controls and risk management policies and is also responsible or any of its subsidiaries.
This is in line with current market practice for reviewing their effectiveness.
During 2010, the Directors have and helps us attract and retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
continued to review the effectiveness of our system of controls, risk management and our high-level internal control arrangements.
Performance evaluation These reviews have included an assessment of internal controls, Prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Board conducted and in particular, financial, operational and compliance controls the annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its and risk management and their effectiveness, supported by committees and individual Directors.
This was carried out internally, management assurance of the maintenance of controls reports using a series of web-based questionnaires that covered a range from Group Internal Audit GIA, as well as the external auditor on of topics, including: the nature and level of the Boards interaction matters identied in the course of its statutory audit work.
The with the Groups management: the quality, quantity and scope of system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of information which ows to the Board from management, and the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide way in which it ows: the content of and presentations to Board reasonable not necessarily absolute assurance of effective meetings: the composition of the Board: the practical arrangements operation and compliance with laws and regulations.
for the work of the Board: and the work and operation of the Boards committees.
Overall, it was concluded that the Board and its committees were operating in an effective and constructive manner.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 111 Corporate Governance Report Underpinning these reviews is an annual letter of assurance copies to shareholders unless specically requested by process by which responsible managers confirm the adequacy of shareholders.
While recognising and respecting the fact that some their systems of internal financial and non-financial controls, their of our stakeholders may have different preferences about how they compliance with Group policies and relevant laws and regulations receive information from us, we will continue to promote the benets including the industrys regulatory requirements, and that they have of electronic communication given the advantages that this has reported any control weaknesses through our continuous over traditional paper-based communications, both in terms of the assurance process.
congurability and accessibility of the information provided and the consequent cost savings and reduction in environmental impact associated with reduced printing and distribution costs.
The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole of 2010 and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
The Directors believe that the Group maintains We have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on an effective, embedded system of internal controls and complies a range of issues.
These include individual meetings with some of our largest institutional shareholders to seek their views.
Board with the Turnbull Report guidance and, in the view of the Directors, no significant failings have been identied in the system.
members are kept informed of any issues and receive regular reports and presentations from executive management and our brokers in order to assist them to develop an understanding of Further information about the ways in which we manage our major shareholders views about the Group.
From time to time, business risks is set out in the Risk section from page 94, which we conduct an audit of institutional shareholders to ensure that also contains a list of the principal risks and uncertainties that we are communicating clearly with them and that a high-quality we face.
The results of this audit are reported to and discussed by the full Board.
Remuneration Information about our approach to remuneration and the role and We also respond to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from work of the Remuneration Committee, including our policy on institutional shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor Relations team executive remuneration, is set out in the Directors Remuneration acts as the main point of contact for investors throughout the year.
As discussed above, the Senior independent Non-Executive Director, currently Michele Hooper, is also available to shareholders Relations with shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of In our financial and business reporting to shareholders and other Chairman, CEO and or CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation to interested parties by means of quarterly, half-yearly and annual which such contact is inappropriate.
All shareholders, including reports, we aim to present a balanced and understandable private investors, have an opportunity at the AGM to put questions assessment of our strategy, financial position and prospects.
to members of the Board about our operation and performance.
Formal notication of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least We make information about the Group available to shareholders one month in advance.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees through a range of media, including a fully integrated html corporate ordinarily attend the AGM to answer questions raised by website, astrazeneca.
com, containing a wide range of data of shareholders.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, interest to institutional and private investors.
We consider our details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are website to be an important means of communication with our given at the AGM and are posted on our website following the AGM.
The Company has been authorised by shareholders to place shareholder communications such as the Notice of AGM and this Annual Report on the corporate website in lieu of sending paper Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science Independent 2 Bo Angelin David Brennan n a 3 3 John Buchanan Chair Bruce Burlington Jean-Philippe Courtois Jane Henney 4 3 Michele Hooper Chair Simon Lowth n a 5 Rudy Markham Nancy Rothwell Chair 6 Louis Schweitzer Chair n a John Varley Chair 7 Marcus Wallenberg 1 As determined by the Board for UK Corporate Governance Codes purposes.
2 Bo Angelin retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
3 John Buchanan retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
Michele Hooper was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
4 Michele Hooper is the Senior independent Non-Executive Director.
5 Rudy Markham was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 29 April 2010.
6 Louis Schweitzer was considered independent by the Board upon his appointment as Chairman: in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
7 Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a member of the Science Committee with effect from 28 April 2010.
112 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Audit Committee subject to fee limits agreed with the Committee in advance.
The CFO supported by the Senior Vice-President, Group Finance The members of the Audit Committee are Michele Hooper Chairman of the Audit Committee, Jane Henney, Jean-Philippe monitors the status of all services being provided by the external auditor.
The procedures also deal with placing non-audit work out Courtois, Rudy Markham and, with effect from her appointment to the Board on 1 January 2011, Shriti Vadera.
They are all Nonfor tender, where appropriate.
Authority to approve work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the Chairman of the Executive Directors.
The Board considers each member to be independent under the UK Corporate Governance Codes and under Committee in the first instance.
A standing agenda item at Committee meetings covers the operation of the pre-approval the general guidance and specic criteria of the Listing Standards concerning the composition of audit committees applicable to procedures and regular reports are provided to the full Committee.
John Buchanan ceased to be a member and Chairman of the Audit Committee upon his retirement from the The Audit Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2010.
In April 2010, we submitted the required individual attendance record of members of the Committee is set annual written afrmation to the NYSE conrming our full compliance out in the Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 with those standards.
For the purposes of the UK Corporate table on page 111.
Following each Committee meeting, the Governance Codes, the Board remains satisfied that at least one Chairman of the Committee reported to the Board on the principal member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial matters covered at the meeting and minutes of the meetings were experience.
At its meeting in December, the Board determined that circulated to all Board members.
Michele Hooper and Rudy Markham are audit committee financial experts for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Deputy During 2010, members of the Audit Committee met individual Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
managers or groups of managers on a number of occasions in order to gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Committees The core terms of reference of the Audit Committee include work and to provide an opportunity to discuss specic areas of reviewing and reporting to the Board on: interest.
In particular, members of the Committee travelled to the US to meet senior leaders of the US business and to learn what steps Matters relating to the audit plans of the external auditor and the business has taken and is taking to ensure compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement there.
GIA as well as oversight of the work of the Global Compliance function.
Our overall framework for internal control over financial reporting During the year, in line with its normal practice, the Audit Committee and for other internal controls and processes.
also held a number of private meetings, without management Our overall framework for risk management, particularly financial present, with the Vice-President, GIA, the Global Compliance risks.
officer and the lead partners from the Companys external audit Our accounting policies and practices.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and open Our annual and quarterly financial reporting.
discussions between Committee members and those individuals, Compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
separately from the main sessions of the Committee, which were attended by the CEO, the CFO and the Senior Vice-President, The Audit Committee is responsible for notifying the Board of any Group Finance.
significant concerns of the external auditor or the Vice-President, GIA arising from their audit work, any matters that may materially During 2010 and January 2011, the business considered and affect or impair the independence of the external auditor, any discussed by the Audit Committee included the matters referred significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or to below: operation of our internal control over financial reporting or other internal controls, and any serious issues of non-compliance.
Our financial disclosures were reviewed and various accounting It oversees the establishment, implementation and maintenance matters considered.
of our Code of Conduct and other related policies.
It monitors Reports were received from the external auditor concerning its the Companys response to letters requesting information and audit of the Financial Statements of the Group and from investigations initiated by regulatory and governmental authorities management, GIA, Global Compliance and the external auditor such as the SEC and the US Department of Justice pertaining to on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and, in matters within the ambit of the Committees work.
It has established particular, our internal control over financial reporting.
This procedures for the receipt and handling of complaints concerning included review and discussion of the results of the continuous accounting or audit matters.
It recommends to the Board the assurance and annual letter of assurance processes.
The appointment of the external auditor, subject to the approval of the Committee also reviewed quarterly activity reports of audit work Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Shareholders in carried out by GIA and the status of follow-up actions with a general meeting authorise the Directors to x the remuneration management as well as reports from the Global Compliance of the external auditor.
The Committee reviews and approves the function.
appointment and dismissal of the Vice-President, GIA.
The systems and processes that management has developed pertaining to risk identication, classication and mitigation.
The Audit Committee maintains policies and procedures for the Continuing work to comply with the applicable provisions of the pre-approval of all audit services and permitted non-audit services Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, the Committee regularly undertaken by the external auditor, the principal purpose of which reviewed the status of compliance with the programme of internal is to ensure that the independence of the external auditor is not controls over financial reporting implemented pursuant to section impaired.
The policies and procedures cover three categories of 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Further information about this is work audit services, audit-related services and tax services.
set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 section on page 93.
The policies define the type of work that falls within each of these Data about calls made by employees via the AZethics telephone categories and the non-audit services that the external auditor is lines and other routes regarding potential breaches of the Code of prohibited from performing under the rules of the SEC and other Conduct together with the results of inquiries into these matters.
relevant UK and US professional and regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval procedures permit certain audit, audit-related and tax services to be performed by the external auditor during the year, AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 113 Corporate Governance Report Quarterly reports were received from the compliance officer The Audit Committee is currently scheduled to meet six times in 2011 and will meet at such other times as may be required.
responsible for monitoring the US businesss compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement.
Accounting issues relevant to litigation and taxation matters.
The Audit Committee reviewed its terms of reference during Reports from the Group Treasury function and, in particular, January 2011 and recommended changes, which were approved the Groups liquidity and cash position and the appropriateness by the Board in January 2011.
The revised terms of reference are of its cash management policies in the context of the current available on our website, astrazeneca.
Other reports concerning the GIA, Global Compliance and Code of Conduct Finance functions, including the internal audit plan and progress Our Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, and plans of the Global Compliance officer.
com, applies to all Directors, ofcers, full-time, The amount of audit and non-audit fees of the external auditor part-time, contractor and temporary staff at all levels in every throughout 2010.
The Committee was satisfied throughout the country where we operate.
It has been translated into over 40 year that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor languages and every employee has a copy in his her local were not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit work language.
It is designed to provide clear direction as to how our undertaken by the external auditor during the year, the level of commitment to honesty and integrity is to be translated into non-audit fees charged for such work or any other facts or consistent actions across all areas of the business.
Further information about the audit and non-audit with the Code of Conduct and with the standards detailed by the fees for 2010 is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements Group in support of it is mandatory.
The same applies to the laws on page 196. and regulations of the countries in which we work and do business, A review and assessment of the Committees performance which as well as applicable national and international codes, and we seek concluded that such performance was satisfactory.
to operate to the highest of these standards.
The Code of Conduct is reviewed on a regular basis and updated where necessary to take In line with best practice, we periodically consider how the audit account of changing legal and regulatory standards and obligations requirements of the Group are best served in the context of eg the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2010. business need and the prevailing external environment and, against the background of this review, consider whether to undertake a The Code of Conduct also includes information on how to report formal tendering programme with audit rms of appropriate size possible violations of the Code of Conduct through the appropriate and calibre.
Following discussions at its meeting in January 2011, channels, including the AZethics telephone lines and the global the Audit Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that website, AZethics.
Anyone who raises a possible breach in a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as the good faith will be supported by management and will not be subject Companys external auditor be proposed to shareholders at the to retaliation, which would itself be considered a serious violation of AGM in April 2011.
Based on its experience of working with external the Code of Conduct.
We review all alleged compliance breaches auditors, the Committee believes that the quality of the interaction and concerns, and we investigate and report them to the Audit with and level of service received from KPMG Audit Plc were key Committee, as appropriate.
The Committee was also satisfied that, notwithstanding the length of tenure of KPMG Audit During 2010, 368 reports of alleged compliance breaches or other Plc, KPMG Audit Plc met the independence criteria under the ethical concerns were made via the telephone lines, the AZethics.
com relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards applicable to website or the Global Compliance e-mail or postal addresses auditors.
Consistent with current market practice, KPMG Audit Plcs described in the Code of Conduct.
The number of reports through services to the Group are provided pursuant to terms of equivalent channels in 2009 was 289.
We believe that the increase engagement which are reviewed by the Committee.
These terms in the number of reports via these channels is due to our ongoing of engagement do not include any contractual obligations under focus on compliance matters and work to raise awareness of the which the Directors would be prevented from appointing a different Code of Conduct and supporting policies through focused audit rm were they to consider this to be in the best interests of communication and training.
The Committee, through management, continues to maintain contact and dialogue with other major audit rms who As with the Code of Conduct, our global policies apply to all are familiar with the Groups business for succession purposes members of the Group.
Like the Code of Conduct, the global as required.
This is reported to the Committee in order to ensure a policies provide clear and comprehensive guidance, in plain smooth transition from the current auditor, should this be necessary.
language, to all managers and employees as to their accountabilities in key ethical, compliance and corporate At the same meeting, the CEO and the CFO presented to the responsibility risk areas.
Audit Committee their conclusions following the evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures required A critical element of the effectiveness of the Code of Conduct and by Item 15 a of Form 20-F at 31 December 2010.
Based on their global policies is to deliver clear training and education to employees evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as at that date, we on an ongoing basis.
maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and procedures.
A Group Finance Code of Conduct complements the Code of There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting Conduct.
It applies to the CEO, the CFO, the Groups principal that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that accounting ofcers including key Finance staff in major overseas has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our subsidiaries and all Finance function employees, and it reinforces internal control over financial reporting.
the importance of the integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, of the reliability of the accounting records on which they are based and of the robustness of the relevant controls and processes.
114 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Remuneration Committee The approaches we adopt in respect of our chosen Therapy Areas The scientific technology and R&D capabilities deployed The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to consider and set, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration including pension The decision making processes for R&D projects and programmes rights and compensation payments of Executive Directors and other senior executives.
It also considers and sets the remuneration of the The quality of our scientists.
Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior independent NonExecutive Director and in the absence of the Chairman.
No Director The Science Committee also reviews, from time to time, important is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
More information bioethical issues that we face, and assists in the formulation of, and is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 119. agrees on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in relation to such issues.
It may also consider, from time to time, future trends in medical science and technology.
The Committee does not review Nomination and Governance Committee The Nomination and Governance Committees role is to individual R&D projects.
recommend to the Board any new appointments of Directors.
Any decisions relating to the appointment of Directors are made During 2010, the members of the Science Committee, all of whom by the entire Board based on the merits of the candidates and the have a knowledge of, or an interest in, life sciences, were Nancy relevance of their background and experience, measured against Rothwell Chairman of the Committee, Jane Henney, Bruce objective criteria, with care taken to ensure that appointees have Burlington from his appointment as a Non-Executive Director in enough time to devote to our business.
The Committee also advises August, Marcus Wallenberg from 28 April 2010 and Bo Angelin the Board periodically on significant developments in corporate until his retirement from the Board on 29 April 2010, all Nongovernance and the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Executive Directors.
The President, Global R&D: the Executive Governance Codes.
Vice-President, Innovative Medicines: the Senior Vice-President, R&D, MedImmune: and the Executive Vice-President, Global During 2010, the members of the Nomination and Governance Medicines Development attend meetings of the Committee.
The Vice-President, Strategy, Portfolio & Performance, R&D also attends Committee were Louis Schweitzer Chairman of the Committee, Jane Henney, Michele Hooper and John Varley.
They are all all meetings and acts as secretary to this Committee.
The Board considers them all to be independent: Louis Schweitzer was considered by the Board to The Science Committee met twice in 2010, once by telephone and be independent upon his appointment as Chairman: in accordance once at Gaithersburg, one of our US biologics sites.
It reviewed its with the UK Corporate Governance Codes, the test of independence terms of reference during 2010 and recommended minor changes, is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
which were approved by the Board in July.
The revised terms of The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.
The Nomination and Governance Committee met six times in 2010.
US corporate governance requirements The individual attendance record of its members is set out in the Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, accordingly, we are subject Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2010 table to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to on page 111.
During the year, it reviewed the knowledge, experience foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and balance of the Board overall and considered its likely future requires companies to include in their annual report on Form 20-F requirements given the strategic and business objectives of the led with the SEC a report by management stating its responsibility Company.
It recommended to the Board the appointment of two for establishing internal control over financial reporting and to new Non-Executive Directors Bruce Burlington and Shriti Vadera.
assess annually the effectiveness of such internal control.
We have For both these appointments, external board search rms were complied with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act instructed to assist the Committee in identifying potential applicable to foreign private issuers.
The Board continues to believe candidates and recruiting the new Board members.
In addition, that the Group has a sound corporate governance framework, the Committee received reports about corporate governance good processes for the accurate and timely reporting of its financial developments and their potential impact on the Group.
In particular, position and results of operations and an effective and robust it reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code published in system of internal controls.
We have established a Disclosure May 2010: no significant changes were required to our corporate Committee, further details of which can be found in the Disclosure governance framework as a result of the changes contained in the Committee section on page 116.
The Directors assessment of the effectiveness of the internal The Nomination and Governance Committee reviewed its terms control over financial reporting is set out in the Directors of reference during 2010 and recommended minor changes, which Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Control over Financial were approved by the Board in January 2011.
The revised terms Reporting section in the Financial Statements on page 136. of reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.
We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our Science Committee corporate governance practices differ from those followed by The Science Committees core role continues to be to provide US companies under the Listing Standards.
In addition, we must assurance to the Board regarding the quality, competitiveness and comply fully with the provisions of the Listing Standards relating to integrity of the Groups R&D activities by way of: meetings and the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
dialogue with our R&D leaders and other scientist employees: visits These provisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees to our R&D sites throughout the world: and review and assessment of: implemented by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed the corporate governance practices required to be followed by US companies under the Listing Standards and our corporate governance practices are generally consistent with those standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 115 Corporate Governance Report Business organisation Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Annual Senior Executive Team The CEO has established and chairs the SET.
The SET normally Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are meets once a month to consider and decide major business issues, or as otherwise required by business needs.
Typically, it also unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware reviews, in advance of submission to the Board, those matters that are to be submitted to the Board for review and decision.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In addition to the CEO, the SETs members are: the CFO: the President, Global R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Global Compliance and Group Internal Audit GIA The role of the Global Compliance function is to manage and Commercial Operations: the General Counsel: the Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs: and the maintain the compliance programme infrastructure and to help embed a culture of ethics and integrity in the Group.
Global Executive Vice-President, Global Operations and Information Services.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the SET.
Compliance works closely with GIA, with whom it provides joint assurance reporting to the Audit Committee.
The key priorities for our Global Compliance function for 2010 2011 are closely aligned Portfolio Investment Board PIB with the Groups strategic priorities and include strengthening our The CEO has established and chairs the PIB, which is a senior-level, efforts for oversight at all levels of our business, including third cross-functional governance body, which seeks to maximise the parties, anti-bribery and anti-corruption efforts, and data privacy.
value of our internal and external R&D investments through robust, During 2011, the Global Compliance function will continue to focus transparent and well-informed decisions that drive business on ensuring the delivery of an aligned approach to compliance that performance and accountability.
addresses key risk areas across the business.
Specically, the PIB has responsibility for: During 2010, the Global Compliance function was restructured with a formal change to centralise the reporting of all globally-deployed Reviewing the R&D portfolio by conducting an objective and compliance programme resources under the Global Compliance transparent review of R&D performance, product launch prole officer who reports to the CEO.
A new management structure, at and alignment with corporate strategy.
The review is also an the head of which is the Global Compliance leadership team, now important step in reconrming the R&D three-year budget.
incorporates all operational elements of the business.
The remit Approving the business plans of the Innovative Medicines Units of the team is to oversee and co-ordinate the implementation of and the Global Medicines Development demand forecast by an effective global compliance programme and evaluate its conrming the allocation of resources across earlyand late-stage effectiveness.
It does this by assessing key compliance risks within elements of R&D as well as assessing licensing and acquisition and across the SET functions: working with GIA to ensure coopportunities.
ordination of compliance auditing and monitoring: reviewing results: Approving late-stage internal and external investment decisions.
addressing significant policy violations: and identifying trends.
Monitoring environmental events that could have a major transformational or disruptive impact on our business.
Global Compliance provides direct assurance to the Audit Committee on matters concerning compliance issues, with a particular focus In addition to the CEO, the PIBs members are the CFO: the on compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation as President, Global R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Global well as IFPMA, EFPIA and PhRMA codes.
Complementing this, Commercial Operations: the Executive Vice-President, Innovative GIA carries out a range of audits that include compliance-related Medicines: the Senior Vice-President, R&D, MedImmune: the audits and reviews of the assurance activities of other Group Executive Vice-President, Global Medicines Development: and the assurance functions.
The results from these activities are reported Vice-President, Strategic Partnering & Business Development.
The to the Audit Committee.
PIB has a permanent secretary and typically meets at around the time of the monthly SET meetings, or as otherwise required by GIA is an independent appraisal function that derives its authority business needs.
from the Board through the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to provide reasonable and objective assurance to the Directors Disclosure Committee regarding the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk Our disclosure policy provides a framework for the handling and management and control framework and the internal controls over disclosure of inside information and other information of interest to key business risks, including financial controls and compliance with shareholders and the investment community.
It also defines the role laws, regulations and policies.
The members of the Committee are: the CFO, who chairs the Committee: the President, Global R&D: the General Counsel: the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities set down in its charter by reviewing: Vice-President, Investor Relations: and the Senior Vice-President, Group Finance.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to this Committee.
The Committee meets regularly to assist and The processes for ensuring that key business risks are effectively inform the decisions of the CEO concerning inside information and managed.
Periodically, it reviews our disclosure controls and The financial and operational controls that help to ensure that the procedures and its own operation as part of work carried out to Groups assets are properly safeguarded from losses, including enable management and the Board to assure themselves that fraud.
appropriate processes are operating for our planned disclosures, The controls that help to ensure the reliability and integrity of such as our quarterly results announcements and scheduled management information systems.
The processes for ensuring compliance with policies and procedures, external legislation and regulation.
116 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In addition to fullling its primary remit of assurance to the Audit During our share repurchase programmes that operated between 1999 and 2010, a total of 430 million Ordinary Shares were Committee, GIA acts as a source of constructive advice and best practice, assisting senior management to improve governance, repurchased, and subsequently cancelled, at an average price of 2,718 pence per share for a consideration, including expenses, control, compliance and risk management.
Other matters Going concern accounting basis Corporate governance statement under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules Information on the business environment in which we operate, including the factors underpinning the industrys future growth The disclosures that full the requirements of a corporate governance statement under the Disclosure and Transparency prospects, are included in the section describing Our marketplace from page 10.
Details of our product portfolio, our approach to Rules can be found in this section and in other parts of this Annual Report as listed below, each of which is incorporated into this product development and a summary of our development pipeline are included in the Business Review section from page 24. section by reference: Additional information on our Therapy Areas is included in the Therapy Area Review from page 50.
The table showing our significant holders of the Companys shares contained in development pipeline can be found from page 206. the Shareholder Information section from page 211.
Articles contained in the Corporate Information section on The financial position of the Group, our cash ows, liquidity position page 216.
Amendments to the Companys Articles contained in the and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review from page 78.
In addition, Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements Corporate Information section on page 216. from pages 158 and 168 respectively, include our objectives, policies and processes for managing our capital, our financial risk Subsidiaries and principal activities management objectives, details of our financial instruments and The Company is the holding company for a group of subsidiaries hedging activities and our exposures to credit, market and liquidity whose principal activities are described in this Annual Report.
Further details of our cash balances and borrowings are Principal subsidiaries and their locations are given in the Principal included in Notes 13 and 14 to the Financial Statements on pages Subsidiaries section in the Financial Statements on page 197.
Branches and countries in which the Group conducts We have considerable financial resources available.
At 31 business December 2010, we had $15.25 billion in financial resources cash In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we disclose below balances of $11.1 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of our subsidiary companies that have representative or scientific $4.25 billion, with only $0.1 billion of debt due within one year.
Our branches ofces outside the UK: revenues are largely derived from sales of products which are covered by patents and for which, in the short term at least, AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Armenia, demand is relatively unaffected by changes in the global economy.
Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Chile, In addition, we have a wide diversity of customers and suppliers Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, Ghana scientific ofce, across different geographic areas.
As a consequence, the Directors Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya scientific ofce, Macedonia, believe that we are well placed to continue to manage our business Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia and Ukraine risks successfully.
AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific ofce, Latvia, Saudi Arabia scientific ofce and Slovakia The Directors have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: Estonia, Lithuania, Romania resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable and the United Arab Emirates future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: Cambodia and Vietnam.
in preparing this Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
Distributions to shareholders and dividends for 2010 Changes in share capital Our distribution policy comprises both a regular cash dividend and Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share capital during 2010, a share repurchase component, further details of which are set out including details of the allotment of new shares under the in the Financial Review on page 87 and Notes 21 and 20 to the Companys share plans, are given in Note 20 to the Financial Financial Statements on page 167.
The Companys dividends for 2010 of $2.55 161.6 pence, SEK Directors shareholdings 17.11 per Ordinary Share amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend The Articles require each Director to be the beneficial owner of payment to shareholders of $3,617 million.
Two of our employee Ordinary Shares in the Company with an aggregate nominal value share trusts, AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited and AstraZeneca Quest Limited, waive their right to a dividend on the Ordinary of $125 which currently represents at least 500 shares.
Such holding must be obtained within two months of the date of the Shares that they hold and instead receive a nominal dividend.
At 31 December 2010, all of the Directors complied with this requirement and full details of each Directors A shareholders resolution was passed at the 2010 AGM authorising interests in shares of the Company are set out in the Directors the Company to purchase its own shares.
Pursuant to this interests in shares section on page 132.
Information about the resolution, the Company repurchased and subsequently cancelled shareholding expectations of the Remuneration Committee in 53,691,507 Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each, at respect of Executive Directors and SET members and the Board an aggregate cost of $2,604 million, representing 3.8% of the total in respect of Non-Executive Directors is also set out in the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company will seek a Directors Remuneration Report on pages 121 and 128 respectively.
renewal of its current permission from shareholders to purchase its own shares at the AGM on 28 April 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Corporate Governance Report 117 Corporate Governance Report Political donations Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 28 April 2011.
The meeting Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any EU political donations or incurred any EU political expenditure in 2010 and they place will be in London.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all registered holders of Ordinary Shares and, where requested, to the do not intend to do so in the future in respect of which shareholder authority is required, or for which disclosure in this Annual Report beneficial holders of shares.
is required, under the Companies Act 2006.
However, to enable the Company and its subsidiaries to continue to support interest groups External auditor or lobbying organisations concerned with the review of government A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 28 April 2011 for the policy or law reform without inadvertently breaching the Companies re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company.
Act 2006, which defines political donations and other political The external auditor has undertaken various non-audit work for expenditure in broad terms, a resolution will be put to shareholders us during 2010.
More information about this work and the audit at the 2011 AGM, similar to that passed at the 2010 AGM, to and non-audit fees that we have paid are set out in Note 27 to authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to: the Financial Statements on page 196.
The external auditor is not engaged by us to carry out any non-audit work in respect of which it might, in the future, be required to express an audit opinion.
As make donations to political parties make donations to political organisations other than political parties explained more fully in the Audit Committee section from page 113, the Audit Committee has established pre-approval policies and incur political expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of $250,000.
procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be carried out by the external auditor and has carefully monitored the objectivity In 2010, the Groups US legal entities made contributions amounting and independence of the external auditor throughout 2010. in aggregate to $1,999,150 2009: $733,687 to state political party committees and to campaign committees of various state Bureau Veritas candidates afliated with the major parties in accordance with pre-established guidelines.
The increase from 2009 to 2010 reects Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on corporate responsibility related information within this Annual Report and the fact that many US states held legislative and executive elections in 2010, resulting in more state candidate and state political party of the detailed content of the Responsibility section of our website.
Bureau Veritas has found the information provided within this activity.
No corporate donations were made at the federal level and all contributions were made only where allowed by US federal and Annual Report to be accurate and reliable based on the evidence provided and subject to the scope, objectives and limitations state law.
US citizens or individuals holding valid green cards exercised decision making over the contributions and the funds dened in the full assurance statement.
The full assurance statement which contains detailed scope, methodology, overall were not provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
Such contributions do not constitute political donations or political opinion and recommendations can be found on our website, astrazeneca.
com: web page content assured by Bureau Veritas expenditure for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and were made without any involvement of persons or entities outside the US.
is marked at the bottom of each page.
Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company significant agreements There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a that specialises in quality, health, safety, social and environmental management with a long history of providing independent party that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no persons with assurance services, and an annual turnover in 2009 of 2.6 billion.
whom we have contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed by the Directors to be essential to our business.
Directors Report The Directors Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, comprises the Use of financial instruments Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements, from pages 158 following sections: and 168 respectively, include further information on our use of financial instruments.
Our Strategy and Performance Business Review Corporate Governance Creditor payment policy It is not our policy formally to comply with the Confederation of Development Pipeline Shareholder Information British Industrys code of practice on the prompt payment of suppliers.
It is, however, our policy to agree appropriate payment Corporate Information terms with all suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
terms of payment and, subject to their compliance, to abide by the terms of payment.
The total amount of money owed by the A C N Kemp Companys subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance sheet Company Secretary date was equivalent to 62 days average purchases 2009: 56 days.
27 January 2011 A considerable part of the trade creditors balance continues to relate to the Merck account in the US, which has particularly long contractual payment terms.
By removing this balance and other items not directly related to trade purchases in the US, a more accurate average of 57 days is obtained 2009: 47 days.
The Company has no external trade creditors.
118 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010
