What is our approach to risk management?
We encourage clear decision making as to which risks we take and how we manage them 94 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Risk The CEO and the CFO undertake quarterly business reviews In this section we describe our key risk QBRs with each SET function where the key risks are reviewed.
management and assurance mechanisms, and Business managers within each SET function are required to the principal risks and uncertainties which we provide quarterly updates on their key risks and these are consolidated to create the list of key risks for that SET function for currently consider to be material to our business review at the QBRs.
The key risks for each SET function are then in that they may have a significant effect on our aggregated into a Group risk register.
The purpose of the risk review financial condition, results of operations and or is to identify and measure risks, and to define and review risk management and mitigation plans.
Specic risks and uncertainties are guidelines and supporting tools are in place to support the also discussed at various points in the Business managers in the effective identication, reporting, management Review section from page 24, where relevant.
Our approach to risk management includes the development of Managing risk business resilience plans to provide for situations where specic risks As an innovation-driven, global, prescription-based have the potential to severely impact our business.
Global business biopharmaceutical business, we face a diverse range of risks and resilience plans covering crisis management, business continuity uncertainties that may adversely affect our business.
Our approach and emergency responses are in place, supported by the training to risk management is designed to encourage clear decision of relevant business managers and crisis simulation activities.
making as to which risks we take as a business and how we manage those risks, in each case informed by an understanding One of our strategic priorities is to ensure that a culture of ethics of the commercial, financial, compliance, legal and reputational and integrity is embedded in all business practices.
Our Code of implications of these risks.
Conduct and our Global Policies and Standards set mandatory minimum standards of responsible behaviour for all employees.
In We work continuously to ensure that we have effective risk addition, all employees receive annual training on the requirements management processes in place to support the delivery of our of our Code of Conduct, as well as more specic targeted training strategic objectives, the material needs of our stakeholders and our on particular policies and standards.
Employees are encouraged to core values.
We monitor our business activities and our external raise questions on the practical application of these standards and and internal environments for new, emerging and changing risks to to report suspected breaches and incidents of non-compliance ensure that these are proactively managed at the appropriate level through the reporting channels described in our Code of Conduct.
For information about how we identify and manage the risks The Board believes that the processes and accountabilities which associated with responsible business, please see the are in place and described below in further detail provide it with Accountabilities and responsibilities section of the Responsible adequate information on the key risks and uncertainties facing the Business section on page 41. business.
Further information about these risks and uncertainties is set out in the Principal risks and uncertainties section from page 96.
Key responsibilities Management of risk Embedded in business processes Day-to-day management of risk is delegated from the Board to We strive to ensure sound risk management is embedded within the CEO and through the SET to line managers.
SET management our strategy, planning, budgeting and performance management areas are accountable for establishing an appropriate line processes.
The Board has dened the Groups risk appetite management-led process and for providing the resources for expressing the acceptable levels of risk for the Group using three supporting effective risk management.
key dimensions earnings and cash ow, return on investment and reputation.
This denition provides a clear statement of the Boards Line and project management are accountable for the management position on risk and enables, in quantitative and qualitative terms, of risk within the context of their functional or cross-functional remit the level of risk the Group is prepared to take in individual decisions, or project.
Line managers have primary responsibility for identifying in pursuit of its overall objectives, to be taken into account.
and managing risk and for putting in place appropriate controls and procedures to monitor their effectiveness.
Annually, the Group develops a long-term business plan to support the delivery of its strategy and the Board reviews and confirms that Oversight and monitoring the business plan conforms to its risk appetite.
Line management The SET is responsible for overseeing and monitoring the are accountable for identifying and managing risks, and for effectiveness of the risk management processes implemented by delivering business objectives within the Groups risk appetite.
Specialist risk and compliance functions support the Each area for which a SET member is responsible a SET function SET by providing and advising on policy and standard setting, is required to provide a comprehensive assessment of its risks as monitoring and auditing, communication and training, and reporting part of the annual business planning process.
Identied risks are on the adequacy of line management processes as they apply to mapped to AstraZenecas risk taxonomy, which provides a managing risk throughout the business.
structured disaggregation of the potential strategic, operational, compliance and reputational risks facing the Group.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Risk 95 Risk Our compliance organisation is comprised of the Global compliance functions within the business.
During 2010, GIA assessed the effectiveness of a number of core compliance and Compliance function together with a wide range of specialist compliance functions.
Global Compliance maintains our Code of operational processes operating within the business as well as the effectiveness of risk mitigation plans in a number of high risk and or Conduct and Global Policies and Standards and ensures that an effective compliance programme is in place to ensure compliance business critical areas.
with the 16 Principles of our Code of Conduct and relevant policies and standards.
Principal risks and uncertainties The pharmaceutical sector is inherently risky and a variety of risks and uncertainties may affect our business.
Here we summarise, The specialist compliance functions support line management and SET to manage risk in specic regulated areas to ensure ongoing under the headings: Product pipeline risks: Commercialisation and business execution risks: Supply chain and delivery risks: Legal, legal and regulatory compliance.
These specialist groups include: Good Laboratory, Clinical and Manufacturing Compliance: Sales regulatory and compliance risks: and Economic and financial risks, the principal risks and uncertainties which we currently consider to and Marketing Compliance: Medical and Regulatory Affairs: Financial Control and Compliance: Safety, Health and Environment: be material to our business in that they may have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and or reputation.
Information Security and Data Privacy: and Security.
When a potential compliance breach is identied, the compliance These risks are not listed in any assumed order of priority.
Other risks, unknown or not currently considered material, could have a organisation undertakes an internal investigation.
Should the investigation conclude that an actual compliance breach has similar effect.
We believe that the forward-looking statements about AstraZeneca in this Annual Report, identied by words such as occurred, the compliance organisation will consider whether the Company needs to make a disclosure and or to report the findings anticipates, believes, expects and intends, are based on reasonable assumptions.
However, forward-looking statements to a regulatory or governmental authority.
When appropriate, the compliance organisation will engage external advisers to conduct involve inherent risks and uncertainties such as those summarised below because they relate to events and depend on circumstances and or advise on investigations.
that will occur in the future, and may be inuenced by factors beyond our control and or may have actual outcomes materially Management reporting and assurance different from our expectations.
The Audit Committee is comprised of five Non-Executive Directors and is accountable, among other things, for assessing the Product pipeline risks adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management systems and processes implemented by management.
The Audit Committee Failure to meet development targets The development of any pharmaceutical product candidate is a receives regular reports from the external auditor and the following business functions: complex, risky and time-intensive process involving significant financial, R&D and other resources, which may fail at any stage of the process due to a number of factors, including: Group Internal Audit GIA independent assurance reports on the Groups risk management and control framework.
Failure to obtain the required regulatory or marketing approvals for Global Compliance compliance programme reports on key compliance risks, updates on key compliance initiatives, the product candidate or the facilities in which it is manufactured.
Unfavourable data from key studies.
performance against the Global Compliance scorecard, compliance incidents and investigations including calls made Adverse reactions to the product candidate or indications of other safety concerns.
by employees to the AZethics and MedImmune helplines.
Financial Control and Compliance Group reports on SarbanesFailure of R&D to develop new and differentiated product candidates.
Oxley Act compliance and the financial control framework.
Management the Group-level risk summary from the annual Failure to demonstrate adequately cost-effective benets to regulators.
business planning process and QBRs and reports on the performance management and monitoring processes.
The emergence of competing products.
A succession of negative drug project results and a failure to The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board following each Audit Committee meeting on the overall framework of risk reduce development timelines effectively could adversely affect the reputation of our R&D capabilities.
Furthermore, the failure of R&D management and internal controls and is responsible for promptly bringing to the Boards attention any significant concerns about the to yield new products that achieve commercial success is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results conduct, results or outcome of internal audits and other compliance matters.
For further information on the Audit Committee, see the of operations.
Audit Committee section from page 113.
Production and release schedules for biologics may be more GIA is an independent assurance and advisory function that reports signicantly impacted by regulatory processes than other products to, and is accountable to, the Audit Committee.
GIAs budget, due to more complex and stringent regulation on the manufacturing resources and programme of audits are approved by the Audit of biologics and their supply chain.
Committee on an annual basis and the findings from its audit work are reported to, and are discussed at, each Audit Committee meeting.
A core part of the audit work carried out by GIA includes assessing how AstraZeneca is managing risk and reviewing the effectiveness of selected aspects of AstraZenecas risk control framework, including the effectiveness of other assurance and 96 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information difficulties of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals Delay to new product launches Our continued success depends on the development and for new products We are subject to strict controls on the development, labelling, successful launch of innovative new drugs.
The anticipated launch dates of major new products have a significant impact on a number manufacture, distribution and marketing of our pharmaceutical products.
The requirements to obtain regulatory approval based of areas of our business, including investment in large clinical studies, the manufacture of pre-launch stocks of the products, on a products safety, efcacy and quality before it can be marketed for a specified therapeutic indication or indications in a particular investment in marketing materials ahead of a product launch, sales force training and the timing of anticipated future revenue streams country, and to maintain and to comply with licences and other regulations relating to its manufacture and marketing, are from commercial sales of new products.
These launch dates are primarily driven by the development programmes that we run and particularly important.
The submission of an application to regulatory authorities which are different, with different the demands of the regulatory authorities in the approvals process, as well as pricing negotiation in some countries.
Delays to requirements, in each region or country may or may not lead to approval to market the product.
Regulators can refuse to grant anticipated launch dates can result from a number of factors including adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical studies, approval or may require additional data before approval is given, even though the medicine may already be launched in other parts regulatory demands, competitor activity and technology transfer.
significant delays to anticipated launch dates of new products could of the world.
The countries that constitute key markets for our pharmaceutical products include the US, certain countries of the have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
For example, for the launch of products that are EU and Japan.
The approval of a product is required by the relevant regulatory authority in each country, although a single pan-EU MAA seasonal in nature, delays for regulatory approval or manufacturing difficulties can have the effect of delaying launch to the next season can be obtained through a centralised procedure.
which, in turn, may signicantly reduce the return on costs incurred in preparing for the launch for that season.
In addition, a delay in the In recent years, companies sponsoring new drug applications and launch may give rise to increased costs if, for example, marketing regulatory authorities have been under increased public pressure to and sales efforts need to be rescheduled or protracted for longer apply more conservative risk benefit criteria and, in some instances, than expected.
the applicable regulatory authorities require a company to develop plans to ensure safe use of a marketed product before a Strategic alliances formed as part of our externalisation strategy may pharmaceutical product is approved, or after approval, if a new and significant safety issue is established.
In addition, third party be unsuccessful We seek technology licensing arrangements and strategic interpretation of publicly available data on our marketed products has the potential to inuence the approval status or labelling of a collaborations to expand our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our business strategy.
currently approved and marketed product.
Further, the predictability of the outcome and timing of review processes remains challenging, particularly in the US, due to competing regulatory priorities and Such licensing arrangements and strategic collaborations are key a continuing sentiment of risk aversion on the part of regulatory to enable us to grow and strengthen the business.
If we fail to reviewers and management.
Delays in regulatory reviews and complete these types of collaborative projects in a timely manner, approvals could impact the timing of a new product launch and on a cost-effective basis, or at all, we may not realise the expected the drive for public transparency of the review processes through benets of any such collaborations.
The success of such current the more extensive use of public advisory committees, which in and future arrangements is largely dependent on the technology the US, continue to add to the unpredictability of the process.
and other intellectual property we acquire and the resources, efforts For example, the approval of Brilinta and Axanum in the US has and skills of our partners.
There is a risk that these collaborative been delayed by Complete Response Letters which requested projects may be unsuccessful.
Disputes and difficulties in such further data and or analyses.
relationships may arise, often due to conicting priorities or conicts of interest of the parties, which may erode or eliminate the benets of these alliances if, for example, the agreements are terminated: Failure to obtain effective intellectual property protection Our policy and a key business priority is to protect our investment insufficient financial or other resources are made available to the alliances: intellectual property is negatively impacted: obligations in R&D by securing appropriate intellectual property protection in respect of our inventions and innovations.
Our ability to obtain are not performed as expected: controls and commercial limitations are imposed over the marketing and promotion of the collaboration and enforce patents and other proprietary rights in relation to our products is, therefore, an important element of our ability to create products: or challenges in achieving commercial success of the product are encountered during the development process.
Also, long-term value for the business.
under many of our strategic alliances, we make milestone payments well in advance of the commercialisation of the products, with no A number of the countries in which we operate are still developing their intellectual property laws or may even be limiting the assurance that we will recoup these payments.
If these types of transactions are unsuccessful, this may have a material adverse applicability of these laws to pharmaceutical inventions such that certain countries may seek to limit or deny effective patent effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Limitations on the availability of patent protection or the use of compulsory licensing in certain Furthermore, we experience strong competition from other countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect pharmaceutical companies in respect of licensing arrangements on the pricing and sales of our products and, consequently, could and strategic collaborations, which means that we may be materially adversely affect our revenues from them.
More unsuccessful in establishing some of our intended projects.
If we information about protecting our intellectual property is contained are unsuccessful in establishing such projects in the future, this may in the Intellectual Property section from page 30 and information have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results about the risk of patent litigation and the early loss of intellectual of operations.
property rights is contained in the Patent litigation and early loss of intellectual property rights section from page 98.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Risk 97 Risk Commercialisation and business execution risks Developing our business in emerging markets The development of our business in emerging markets will be Challenges to achieving commercial success of new products The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical product involves a critical factor in determining our future ability to sustain or increase the level of our global product revenues.
Challenges that substantial investment in sales and marketing activities, launch stocks and other items.
The commercial success of our new arise in relation to the development of the business in emerging markets include: medicines is of particular importance to us in order to replace sales lost as and when patent protection expires.
If a new product does not succeed as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is slower than more volatile economic conditions anticipated, there is a risk that the costs incurred in launching it competition from companies that are already present in could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition the market and results of operations.
We may ultimately be unable to achieve the need to identify correctly and to leverage appropriate commercial success for any number of reasons, including: opportunities for sales and marketing poor protection of intellectual property Inability to manufacture sufficient quantities of the product inadequate protection against crime including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud candidate for development or commercialisation activities in a timely and cost-efficient manner.
the need to impose developed market compliance standards in emerging markets Excessive costs of, or difficulty in, manufacturing.
Erosion of patent term and other intellectual property rights, and inadvertent breaches of local and international law regulation not being able to recruit sufficient personnel with appropriate skills infringement of those rights and the intellectual property rights owned by third parties.
and experience identication of the most appropriate and effective sales channels Failure to show value or a differentiated prole for our products.
and route to market interventions by national governments or regulators to restrict access to a market and or to introduce As a result, we cannot be certain that compounds currently under adverse price controls.
The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in In addition, the methods of distributing and marketing biologics emerging markets may have a material adverse effect on our could have a material impact on the revenue we are able to reputation, financial condition and results of operations.
generate from the sales of products such as Synagis and FluMist Fluenz.
The commercialisation of biologics is often more complex than for traditional pharmaceutical products.
This is primarily due Expiry of intellectual property rights Pharmaceutical products are normally only protected from being to differences in the mode of administration, the technical aspects of the product, and the rapidly changing distribution and copied during the period of protection under patent rights or related intellectual property rights such as Regulatory Data Protection or reimbursement environments.
Following expiry of such rights, the product is generally open to competition from generic versions.
Products Performance of new products under patent protection or within the period of Regulatory Data Although we carry out numerous and extensive clinical studies on Protection typically generate signicantly higher revenues than all our products before they are launched, it can be difficult, for a those not protected by such rights.
See the Intellectual Property period following the launch of a new product, to establish from section from page 30 for a table of certain patent expiry dates for available data, a complete assessment of its eventual efcacy and our key marketed products.
or safety in broader clinical use on the market.
Due to the relatively short time that a product has been tested and the relatively small Patent litigation and early loss of intellectual property rights number of patients who have taken the product in clinical studies, the available data may be immature.
Simple extrapolation of the data Any of the intellectual property rights protecting our products may be asserted or challenged in intellectual property litigation initiated may not be accurate and could lead to a misleading interpretation of the likely future commercial performance of a new product.
against or by alleged infringers.
Such intellectual property rights may be affected by validity challenges in patent ofces.
In any event, we expect our most valuable products to receive the greater Product counterfeiting number of challenges.
Despite our efforts to establish and defend Counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong robust patent protection for our products, we may not succeed in dose of the active pharmaceutical ingredient API or no API at all.
such litigation and challenges to our patents.
If we are not Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients in all parts of the successful in maintaining exclusive rights to market one or more of world.
The International Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting our major products, particularly in the US where we have our Taskforce IMPACT of the WHO estimates that up to 30% of medicines in emerging economies are counterfeit, a percentage highest revenue, our revenue and margins could be materially adversely affected.
which is exceeded in parts of Latin America, Asia and Africa.
By contrast, in established economies with effective regulatory systems, counterfeit medicines represent less than 1% of the Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to market generic versions market by market value.
Public loss of confidence in the integrity of many of our more important products prior to expiries of our of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting could patents and Regulatory Exclusivity periods.
For example, we are materially adversely affect our reputation and financial performance.
currently facing challenges in the US from numerous generic drug In addition, undue or misplaced concern about the issue might manufacturers regarding certain of our patents for Seroquel XR, induce some patients to stop taking their medicines, with Nexium and Crestor, three of our best selling products.
If such consequential risks to their health.
challenges succeed and generic products are launched, or launched at risk on the expectation that challenges to our intellectual property will be successful, this may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
In 2010, US sales for Seroquel XR, Nexium and Crestor were $640 million, $2,695 million, and $2,640 million respectively.
The more significant patent litigation relating to our products is described in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178.
98 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information In addition to patent challenges by generic drug manufacturers Expiry or earlier loss of patents covering competing products The expiry or earlier loss of patents covering other innovator seeking to market generic versions of our products, we bear the risk that we may be found to infringe patents owned or licensed companies products may lead to the availability of generic products in the same product class as our currently patented products earlier exclusively by third parties, including research-based and generic pharmaceutical companies and individuals.
Such third party patents than anticipated.
Such events could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
For example, may allegedly cover, for example, compositions, devices, products, processes, methods, biological materials, or research tools relating the loss of patent rights covering major products in the US, such as Advair Diskus before 2012 or Celebrex before 2014, or the early to our products.
Infringement accusations may implicate, for example, our manufacturing processes, product intermediates or entry of generic versions of still-patented products, prior to the expiry of the patents protecting such products, such as Lipitor use of research tools.
Managing or litigating infringement disputes over so-called freedom to operate can be costly.
We may be expected in 2011, may adversely affect the growth of our stillpatented products in the same product class ie Symbicort, Vimovo subject to injunctions against our products or processes and or be liable for damages or royalties.
We may need to obtain costly and Crestor, respectively in that market.
These risks may be greater in respect of biologics and vaccines, where such infringement accusations relating to patents Competition, price controls and price reductions claiming processes, research tools, methods, and biological All our products compete directly with other products marketed materials are frequently found.
We may mitigate such risks either by major research-based pharmaceutical companies or by successfully through, for example, acquiring licences, foregoing generic pharmaceutical manufacturers.
These competitors may certain activities or uses, or modifying processes to avoid invest greater resources in the marketing of their products than we infringement claims and permit commercialisation of our products, do depending on the relative priority of these competitor products but there is no certainty that any such action or modication will be within their companys portfolio.
Generic versions of products are possible: and any such action may entail significant cost.
Details of often sold at lower prices than branded products because the significant infringement claims against AstraZeneca by third parties manufacturer does not have to recoup the significant cost of R&D enforcing intellectual property rights can be found in Note 25 to the investment.
Also, generic pharmaceutical companies do not Financial Statements from page 178. generally invest the same amounts in education services for healthcare professionals as research-based pharmaceutical companies, so the sales of their generic products do not need to In addition to the challenges to our patented products from manufacturers of generic or other patented pharmaceutical cover these costs.
All our patented products, including Nexium, Crestor and Seroquel, are subject to price pressure from products, there is a risk that some countries, particularly some of those in the developing world, may seek to impose limitations competition from generic products in the same product class.
on the availability of patent protection for pharmaceutical products, or on the extent to which such protection may be obtained Industry consolidation has resulted in a small number of very large and or enforced, within their jurisdictions.
This trend, if it continues, could materially adversely manufacturers in these countries may be increasingly and more affect our competitive position, while consolidation among our easily able to introduce competing products to the market earlier customers may increase price pressures.
than they would have been able to had more robust patent protection been available.
In most of our key markets there is continued economic, regulatory and political pressure to limit or reduce the cost of pharmaceutical Combined with patent protection and Regulatory Exclusivities, products.
Concurrently, many markets are adopting the use of products protected by valid trade marks usually generate higher Health Technology Assessment HTA to provide a rigorous revenues than those without trade marks.
We believe that we have evaluation of the clinical efcacy of a product, at or post-launch.
robust trade mark protection for our products but cannot be certain HTA evaluations are also increasingly being used to assess the that we would be able to defend any challenge successfully.
clinical as well as the cost effectiveness of products in a particular health system.
This comes as payers and policy-makers attempt to drive increased efficiencies in the use and choice of pharmaceutical Biosimilars Various regulatory authorities are implementing or considering products.
A summary of the principal aspects of price regulation and how price pressures are affecting our business in our most important abbreviated approval processes for biosimilars similar versions of existing biologics, also referred to as similar biological medicinal markets is set out in the Geographical Review from page 70. products and follow-on biologics.
In the US, realised prices are being depressed through the use of For example, in 2010, the US enacted the Biologics Price a range of cost-control tools such as restricted lists, or formularies, Competition and Innovation Act within the Affordable Care Act, employing generic first strategies, which require physicians to which contains general directives for biosimilar applications.
The obtain prior approval for the use of a branded medicine where a FDA sought stakeholder input on specic issues and challenges generic version exists.
These mechanisms put pressure on in implementing an abbreviated biosimilar approval pathway and manufacturers to reduce prices and to limit access to branded further guidance is expected to be issued.
In Europe, the EMA products.
Many of these mechanisms shift a greater proportion published a draft guideline on similar biological medicinal products of the cost of medicines on to the individual via out-of-pocket containing MAbs.
This draft guideline will likely be nalised in 2011. payments at the pharmacy counter.
The patient out-of-pocket In May 2010, the WHO published Guidelines for Evaluation of spend is generally in the form of a co-payment or, in some cases, Similar Biotherapeutic Products, which are intended for national a co-insurance, which is designed, among other reasons, to regulatory authorities in other markets.
encourage patients to use generic medicines.
Many of these management tools are also employed by institutional customers in While it is uncertain when any such processes may be fully response to the current cost-containment environment and these increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies could have a material adopted, particularly for complex protein molecules such as MAbs, any such processes could have a material adverse effect on the adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
future commercial prospects for patented biologics.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Risk 99 Risk In the US, new legislation is possible that may allow the commercial Increasing implementation and enforcement of more stringent anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation importation of medicines into the US from selected countries where these medicines are available at lower prices than in the US.
The There is an increasing focus globally on the implementation of legislation of an anti-bribery and anti-corruption nature and on adoption of such legislation could result in an increase in the volume of cross-border product movements which could have a material the enforcement of such legislation.
For example, in the UK, the new Bribery Act 2010 received Royal Assent in April 2010 and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
is expected to come into force in 2011.
While there remains speculation as to the practical impact of the Bribery Act on The US recently passed the Affordable Care Act, a comprehensive companies, it has extensive extra-territorial application, implements health reform package with provisions initially taking effect between significant changes to existing UK anti-bribery legislation and 2010 and 2014.
Among other things, the law expands insurance broadens the scope of statutory offences and the potential coverage, establishes new national entities focused on health penalties applicable thereto, including, among others things, the system reforms, and calls on the pharmaceutical industry and other creation of liability for any bribe paid on behalf of an organisation healthcare industries to offset spending increases through paywhere the organisation failed to have adequate preventative fors.
In terms of specic provisions impacting our industry, the law procedures in place at the time of the offence.
There is also an mandates higher rebates and discounts on branded drugs for increase in the maximum applicable penalties for bribery, including certain Medicare and Medicaid patients as well as an industry-wide up to ten years imprisonment and unlimited fines.
There have also excise tax.
The law also includes several health system delivery been increased enforcement efforts in the UK by the Serious Fraud reforms that will be implemented over the next four years, including Ofce and, in the US, there has been significant enforcement the establishment of a new comparative effectiveness research activity in respect of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act by the SEC organisation, the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute and US Department of Justice against US companies as well as and an Independent Payment Advisory Board with broad authority non-US companies listed in the US.
to propose to cut Medicare expenditures.
The combined work of these two entities could lead to continued downward price pressure on pharmaceuticals.
As the US continues to struggle with federal We devote significant resources to the considerable challenge of compliance with this legislation, including in emerging and and state budget deficits, it is expected that there will be continued downward pressure on healthcare spending growth.
developing markets, at considerable cost.
AstraZeneca is the subject of current anti-corruption investigations and there can be no assurance that we will not, from time to time, continue to be subject The health reform legislation expands the patient population eligible to informal inquiries and formal investigations from governmental for Medicaid and provides new insurance coverage for individuals agencies.
In the context of our business, governmental ofcials through state-operated health insurance exchanges.
Large interact with us in a variety of roles that are important to our employers have typically offered generous health insurance operations, such as in the capacity of a regulator, partner or benets, but many are struggling with increasing health insurance healthcare payer, reimburser or prescriber, among others.
Inquiries premiums and may therefore opt to shift employee coverage into and investigations from governmental agencies require additional the health insurance exchanges, which will be operational by 2014. resources to be devoted and, notwithstanding the measures that The pharmaceutical industry could be adversely impacted by such we take to prevent breaches of applicable anti-bribery and shifts if the health insurance exchanges do not offer a prescription anti-corruption laws by our personnel, breaches may result in the drug benefit that is as robust as benets historically provided by imposition of significant penalties, such as the payment of fines, the large employers.
requirement to comply with monitoring or self-reporting obligations or debarment or exclusion from government sales or reimbursement In the EU, efforts by the European Commission to reduce programmes, any of which could have material adverse inconsistencies and to improve standards and best practice in the consequences on our business operations, financial condition and disparate national regulatory systems have met with little immediate results of operations, and could cause damage to our reputation.
The industry continues to be exposed in Europe to a range of disparate pricing systems, ad hoc cost-containment Any expected gains from productivity initiatives are uncertain measures and reference pricing mechanisms, which impact prices.
We continue to implement various productivity initiatives and This can lead to marked price differentials between markets, restructuring programmes with the aim of enhancing the long-term which increases the pricing pressure affecting the industry.
The efficiency of the business.
However, anticipated cost savings and importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where other benets from these programmes are based on estimates and prices are low due to government price controls or other market the actual savings may vary signicantly.
In particular, these cost dynamics, to countries where prices for those products are higher, is already prevalent and may increase.
In particular, as discussed reduction measures are based on current conditions and do not take into account any future changes to the pharmaceutical industry in the Pricing pressure section from page 11, Germany, Spain, Portugal and Greece have introduced a number of short-term or our operations, including new business developments, wage and price increases and other factors.
measures to lower healthcare spending, including price cuts or increased mandatory rebates.
This could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
If inappropriately managed, the expected value of the initiatives can be lost through low employee engagement and hence productivity, We expect that pressures on pricing will continue and may increase.
increased absence and attrition levels, and industrial action.
Due to these pressures, there can be no certainty that we will be able to charge prices for a product that, in a particular country or in the aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate return on our investment in that product.
100 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our failure to successfully implement these planned cost reduction It may also result in non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Failure to adequately manage the risk associated with measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations processes including consultation and engagement, talent outsourcing could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
management, recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations Supply chain and delivery risks and financial condition.
Manufacturing biologics Manufacturing biologics, especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of innovative technologies to Acquisitions may be unsuccessful The Group seeks to acquire complementary businesses as part handle living micro-organisms and facilities specically designed and validated for this purpose, with sophisticated quality assurance of its business strategy.
The integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent and control procedures.
Slight deviations in any part of the manufacturing process may result in lot failure, product recalls or liabilities, as well as having a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortisation of spoilage, for example due to contamination.
expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets.
These effects, individually or in combination, Reliance on third parties for goods could cause a deterioration in our credit rating and or increased Like most, if not all, major research-based pharmaceutical borrowing costs and interest expense.
We could also experience companies we increasingly rely on third parties for the timely supply difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, of goods, such as specified raw materials for example, the active systems and facilities, and personnel with different organisational pharmaceutical ingredient in some of our medicines, equipment, cultures.
Integration of an acquired business may also divert formulated drugs and packaging, all of which are key to our management resources that would otherwise be available for the operations.
continuing development of our existing business.
The integration process may result in business disruption, the loss of key However, events beyond our control could result in the failure of employees, slower execution of various work processes, supplies of goods which could have a material adverse effect on our compliance failures due to a change in applicable regulatory financial condition and results of operations.
For example, suppliers requirements and other issues such as a failure to integrate of some of the key goods we rely on may cease to trade.
The information technology and other systems.
In addition, if liabilities consequence of this may be significant delays and or difficulties are uncovered in an acquired business, the Group may suffer in obtaining goods and services on commercially acceptable terms, losses and may not have remedies against the seller or third parties.
Failure to manage a crisis In addition, we may have limited access to and or supply of We handle chemical and biological materials, operate research biological materials, such as cells, animal products or by-products.
and manufacturing plants and distribute products worldwide.
Major Furthermore, government regulations in multiple jurisdictions could disruption to our business and damage to our reputation may be result in restricted access to, use or transport of such materials.
triggered by an operational incident or by actions by our employees Loss of access to sufficient sources of such materials, or tighter or third parties.
In these circumstances, a plan for addressing restrictions on the use of such materials, may interrupt or prevent operational and other issues should ensure a timely response and our research activities as planned and or increase our costs.
Further the ability to resume business as usual.
Failure to institute proper information is contained in the Managing sourcing risk section on communication to internal and external stakeholders and to page 35. mobilise a rapid operational response could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
Further Legal, regulatory and compliance risks information about our business resilience plans and processes are Adverse outcome of litigation and or governmental investigations contained in the Managing risk section from page 95.
We may be subject to any number of legal proceedings and or governmental investigations.
Note 25 to the Financial Statements Failure of information technology includes information about material legal proceedings in which we We are dependent on effective IT systems.
These systems support are currently involved.
Such investigations or legal proceedings, key business functions such as our R&D, manufacturing and sales regardless of their outcome, could be costly, divert management capabilities, and are an important means of internal and external attention, or damage our reputation and demand for our products.
Any significant disruption of these IT systems or failure to integrate new and existing IT systems could have a material Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently unpredictable and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
unexpectedly high awards of damages can result if AstraZeneca receives an adverse verdict.
In many cases, particularly in the US, Failure of outsourcing the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages compensatory, We have outsourced a number of business critical operations punitive and statutory in extremely high amounts.
Accordingly, to third party providers: for example, some R&D processes, it is difficult to quantify the potential exposure to claims in many information services and IT systems, facilities management, human proceedings of the type referred to in Note 25 to the Financial resources, and finance and accounting services among other Statements.
Unfavourable resolution of current and similar future support functions.
Failure of the outsource provider to deliver proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our financial services in a timely manner and to the required level of quality could condition and results of operations, particularly where such have an adverse impact on our ability to meet business targets and circumstances are not covered by insurance.
We may become maintain a good reputation within the industry and with stakeholders.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Risk 101 Risk subject to fines, penalties and other monetary and or non-monetary with current Good Manufacturing Practice or pharmacovigilance ie post-marketing safety surveillance regulations for pharmaceutical sanctions and or may be required to make significant provisions in our accounts related to legal proceedings and or governmental products could arise and lead to loss of product licences, product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to product investigations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products pending resolution of the issues.
Legal proceedings regarding business practices The marketing, promotional, clinical and pricing practices of Environmental occupational health and safety liabilities We have environmental and or occupational health and safety pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, related liabilities at some currently or formerly owned, leased and third party sites, the most significant of which are detailed in Note are subject to extensive regulation, litigation and government investigation.
Many companies, including AstraZeneca, have been 25 to the Financial Statements.
These liabilities are carefully managed by designated technical, legal and business personnel subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental authorities and private payers and consumers.
and there is no reason for us to believe that associated current and expected expenditure and or risks are likely to have a material These have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to AstraZeneca.
For example, see Note 25 to the adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations as a general matter, but, to the extent that they exceed applicable Financial Statements for a discussion of litigation and investigations regarding sales and marketing practices, as well as pricing provisions, they could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations for the relevant period.
It is possible that additional such claims could be made in the future.
As a general matter, these types of claims can result addition, a change in circumstances including a change in applicable laws or regulations may result in such an effect.
in criminal liability, fines, penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies.
A significant non-compliance issue or other environmental or occupational health or safety incident for which we are responsible Substantial product liability claims Given the widespread impact that prescription drugs may have could result in our being liable to pay compensation, fines or remediation costs.
In some circumstances, such liability could have on the health of large patient populations, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and medical device companies have, historically, a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, our financial provisions for any obligations been subject to large product liability damages claims, settlements and awards for injuries allegedly caused by the use of their that we may have relating to environmental or occupational health and safety liabilities may be insufficient if the assumptions products.
Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a product or of other competing products may increase the risk of product liability underlying the provisions, including our assumptions regarding the portion of waste at a site for which we are responsible, prove claims.
Substantial product liability claims that result in court decisions against us or in the settlement of proceedings could have incorrect, or if we are held responsible for additional contamination or occupational health and safety related claims.
a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly where such circumstances are not covered by insurance.
We are currently subject to extensive product liability Economic and financial risks litigation in relation to Seroquel and further details about this are Adverse impact of a sustained economic downturn set out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements from page 178.
A variety of significant risks may arise from a sustained global Information about our approach to patient safety is set out in the economic downturn, including those referred to here.
Additional Patient safety section from page 44. pressure from governments and other healthcare payers on medicine prices and volumes of sales in response to recessionary Failure to adhere to applicable laws, rules and regulations pressures on budgets may cause a slowdown or a decline in growth in some markets.
In some cases, those governments most We operate globally in complex legal and regulatory environments.
Any failure to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations severely impacted by the economic downturn may seek alternative ways to settle their debts through, for example, the issuance of in these jurisdictions may result in civil and or criminal legal proceedings being led against us, or in us becoming subject to government bonds which might trade at a discount to the value of the debt.
In addition, the Groups customers may cease to trade, regulatory sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, our financial condition and results of which in turn may result in losses from writing off debts.
Further, we are highly dependent on being able to access a sustainable ow operations.
Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging administrative powers to deal with any failure to comply with continuing regulatory of liquid funds due to the high xed costs of operating an innovationoversight and this could affect us, whether such failure is our own driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business and or that of third parties with whom we have relationships.
As these the long and uncertain development cycles for our products.
In a laws, rules and regulations change or as governmental sustained and or severe economic downturn, financial institutions interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations evolves, prior that hold our cash and other short-term deposits may cease to conduct may no longer be sufficient to ensure ongoing compliance.
trade and there can be no guarantee that we will be able to access our assets without a protracted, expensive and uncertain process, if at all.
Although we have adopted conservative cash management For example, once a product has been approved for marketing by regulatory authorities, it is subject to continuing control and and treasury policies to mitigate this risk further information on which is contained in the Financial risk management policies regulation, such as the manner of its manufacture, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
In addition, any amendments section on page 90, we cannot be certain that these will be completely effective should a number of major financial institutions that are made to the manufacturing, distribution, marketing and safety surveillance processes of our products may require additional cease to trade.
Additionally, if we need access to external sources of nancing to sustain and or grow our business, such as the debt regulatory approvals, which could result in significant additional costs and or disruption to these processes.
Such amendments or equity capital financial markets, this may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, in the event of a severe may be imposed on us as a result of the continuing inspections to which we are subject or that may be made at our discretion.
It is possible, for example, that regulatory issues concerning compliance 102 Risk AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information and or sustained economic downturn.
This may particularly be the result in a reallocation of profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has the potential to case in the event of any default by the Group on its debt obligations, which may have materially adverse consequences on our ability affect our cash ows and EPS.
Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention and may to secure debt funding in the future or generally on our financial condition.
Further information on debt-funding arrangements adversely affect our reputation.
is contained in the Financial risk management policies section on page 90.
The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to ensure that our revenues and capital gains do not incur a double Impact of uctuations in exchange rates As a global business, currency uctuations can signicantly affect tax charge.
If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Group our results of operations, which are accounted for in US dollars.
Approximately 41% of our global 2010 sales were in the US, which is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could is expected to remain our largest single market for the foreseeable future.
Sales in other countries are predominantly in currencies have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or a other than the US dollar, including the euro, Japanese yen, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
We also have a growing failure by the tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings.
See the Financial risk management policies section exposure to emerging market currencies, although the exchange rates of some of these currencies are linked to the US dollar.
Major on page 90 for tax risk management policies and Note 25 to the Financial Statements on page 195 for details of current tax disputes.
components of our cost base are located in the UK and Sweden, where an aggregate of approximately 28.5% of our employees are based.
Movements in the exchange rates used to translate foreign Pensions currencies into US dollars may, therefore, have a material adverse A particular risk relates to the Groups pension obligations, the effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
single largest of which is the UK pension fund.
The obligations are Additionally, some of our subsidiaries import and export goods backed by assets invested across the broad investment market.
and services in currencies other than their own functional currency Sustained falls in these asset values will put a strain on funding and so the results of such subsidiaries could be affected by which may result in requirements for additional cash, restricting currency uctuations arising between the transaction dates and cash available for strategic business growth.
Similarly, if the liabilities the settlement dates for these transactions.
Further information rise as a result of a sustained low interest rate environment, there is contained in Note 23 to the Financial Statements from page 168. will be a strain on funding from the business.
The likely increase in the IAS 19 accounting deficit generated by any of these factors Credit and return on substantial investments may cause the ratings agencies to review our credit rating, with the potential to negatively affect our ability to raise debt.
See Note 18 As part of its normal operations, the Group will hold significant cash balances.
The amount of cash held at any point reects the level to the Financial Statements from page 162 for further details of the Groups pension obligations.
of cash ow generated by the business and the timing of the use of that cash.
The majority of excess cash is centralised within the Group Treasury function for investment and as such is subject to counterparty risk on the principal invested.
See the Financial risk management policies section on page 90 for details of how the Group seeks to mitigate this risk.
Limited third party insurance coverage Recent insurance loss experience in the pharmaceutical industry, including product liability exposures, has increased the cost of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage prole, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group has not held product liability insurance since February 2006.
In addition, where claims are made under insurance policies, insurers may reserve the right to deny coverage on various grounds.
If such denial of coverage is ultimately upheld, this could result in material additional charges to our earnings.
An example of a dispute with insurers relating to the availability of insurance coverage and in relation to which costs incurred by the Group may not ultimately be recovered through such coverage is included in Note 25 to the Financial Statements in the Seroquel product liability section on page 190.
Taxation The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories.
The resolution of these disputes can AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Risk 103 In a world where there is increasing pressure on healthcare budgets, we can be more effective if we can identify the patients likely to benefit most from particular medicines.
We have experience of this personalised healthcare approach with our lung cancer therapy Iressa.
At one stage Iressa had its submissions withdrawn because its benets failed to reach statistical signicance in the overall population.
However, it worked well on some patients and subsequent analysis of data from clinical studies showed that it was superior to conventional chemotherapy in 1st line treatment of lung cancer patients who had a mutation of the EGFR gene.
Identifying the right treatment for the right patient at the right time and to embed it as part of routine clinical practice was the major challenge for Iressa.
We worked with a variety of healthcare professionals HCPs to improve education and best practice in EGFR testing.
Workshops involving pathologists, oncologists and respiratory physicians were run around the world.
These were complemented by digital activities, including websites, e-learning, and even iPhone applications, to promote best practice and facilitate routine diagnostic testing.
As the first personalised medicine in lung cancer, Iressa is pioneering, not just for the benets it offers patients, but for the way in which it has brought together different groups of HCPs and changed the way patients are tested and treated as part of routine clinical practice.
How do I nd a cancer treatment thats right for me?
Because health connects us all For more information go to the website, egfr-mutation.
104 Delivering our strategy: R&D AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information How is our business structured and managed?
We have a clear structure in which the Board reserves and delegates its powers AstraZeneca AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy: R&D 105 Corporate Governance 105
