directors statement on corporate governance overview business review governance financial statements Compliance Conflicts.
The Board has a formal system in place for directors to The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate declare Situational Conflicts and for these to be considered for governance and fully supports the principles laid down in the authorisation by those directors who have no connection with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code and in the UK Corporate Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted directors are required to act in Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in the way they consider most likely to promote the success of the June 2010 the New Code.
The Board is accountable to the Company and they may impose limits or conditions when giving Companys shareholders for good governance and this Statement, authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The together with the Report on directors remuneration on pages 45 to Board considers the procedure to have continued to operate 52, describes how the principles of the Code were applied during the effectively during the year.
year under review and reports on the Companys compliance with its provisions.
Disclosures relating to significant shareholdings, voting Details of other professional commitments of the Chairman and rights, election and re-election of directors, amendment of the non-executive directors are provided in their biographies on page 35.
Companys Articles of Association and the directors power to issue or buy back shares are included in the Report of the directors on pages Ian Brindle became Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 36 to 39.
It is the Boards view that the Company was fully compliant 4 March 2010 following Alex Walkers appointment as Chairman of with the provisions of the Code throughout the period under review the Company.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director acts as and with certain aspects of the New Code to the date of this Report.
a sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary for the non-executive directors, if needed.
Mr Brindle is available to meet The Board shareholders upon request if they have concerns which contact As at 31 December 2010, the Board comprised a chairman, three through the normal channels of the Chairman or an executive director independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
has failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
The Board operates within a framework of controls including a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
There is a It is Company policy to hold at least four Board meetings a year.
clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company: the During 2010, there were six Board meetings.
The agenda is settled by Chairman Alex Walker being responsible for running the Board and the Chairman in advance of the meeting and papers are circulated to the Chief Executive Officer Bill Burns being responsible for Board members ahead of the meeting.
Minutes of meetings are implementing strategy.
circulated to all Board members and, subject to their agreement, approved at the following Board meeting.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Company The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings was as such as strategic investments, corporate finance, general finance and follows: Number of Number of corporate governance.
They also contribute independent challenge meetings meetings and rigour to the Boards deliberations, and assist in the development held attended of the Companys strategy, scrutiny of the performance of Alex Walker Chairman 6 6 management in meeting agreed goals and targets and satisfying 1 Edward Bramson retired 5 May 2010 2 0 themselves of the integrity of the Companys internal controls and Bill Burns 6 6 risk management systems.
The Board believes that all of the Directors Eric Hutchinson 6 6 devote sufficient time and attention as is necessary in order to Ian Brindle 6 6 perform their duties.
1 Gerard Eastman retired 5 May 2010 2 0 Duncan Lewis 6 6 The independence of each director is reviewed on appointment and 2 Tom Maxwell 6 5 at least annually.
The Board determined that the non-executive directors are each independent in character and judgement and 1 Both Mr Bramson and Mr Eastman were unable to attend the meetings held within the definition of the Code.
No individual or group of individuals on 3 March 2010 and 5 May 2010 due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
dominates the Boards decision making and the requirement of the 2 Mr Maxwell was unable to attend the meeting held on 3 March 2010 due to Code that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should an unavoidable diary conflict.
comprise independent non-executive directors is satisfied.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive In October 2008, the Company adopted new Articles of Association accurate, timely and clear information.
They receive regular updates permitting the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise on business performance and receive presentations from the situations where a director has an interest that conflicts, or may executive directors and other senior managers at Board meetings.
potentially conflict, with the interests of the Company Situational In addition, regular site visits are arranged for non-executive directors Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 41 directors statement on corporate governance continued during which briefings are arranged and the directors are free to The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive discuss aspects of the business with employees at all levels.
Under directors and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to assess the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good performance and to discuss the performance of the executive directors and timely information flows between the Board and its Committees or any other matters.
The Chairman has concluded that during the year and makes sure that Board procedures are complied with.
The under review the commitment and application of the continuing Company Secretary also updates and advises the Board on all non-executive directors was of a high standard including each having regulatory and governance matters.
sufficient time to attend all Board and appropriate Committee meetings and to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
There is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the Board Committees may take independent professional advice at the The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director met with the Companys expense in order to fulfil their duties.
All directors also independent non-executive directors on 3 November 2010, in the have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
whose removal may only be effected with the approval of the Board.
The independent non-executive directors were of the opinion that Mr Walker gave sufficient time to his role as Chairman of the Company Board appointments and induction and was effective in that role during the year under review.
The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Board which complies with the Code.
On appointment The Board is actively considering the provisions under the New Code to the Board and its Committees all directors receive an induction relating to the use of external facilitators in the performance tailored to their individual requirements.
New directors are briefed on evaluation process and how best to develop the review process.
their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a UK listed company.
Visits to different facilities and meetings with senior Board Committees management are organised, as appropriate, to assist the new director Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision in developing an understanding of how the Group operates and the have been delegated to three Committees with clearly defined terms key issues that it faces.
of reference which, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference for the Audit, The Companys Articles of Association require all directors to seek Nomination and Remuneration Committees can be found on the election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following Companys website at www.
their appointment and that all directors retire and seek re-election at least every three years.
However, in accordance with the New Code, Audit Committee which replaces the existing Code for accounting periods beginning on The Audit Committee comprises Ian Brindle Chairman, Duncan or after 29 June 2010, the Board has agreed that all directors will Lewis and Tom Maxwell.
Mr Lewis joined the Committee on 4 March stand for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
2010 following Alex Walkers appointment as Chairman of the Company.
All of the Committee members are independent nonThe Board recognises that some shareholders have expressed executive directors, making the composition of the Committee concern that annual re-election of directors could encourage them to compliant with the Code.
The Code also requires that the Audit take a short term view.
The Board is confident, however, that, as more Committee includes at least one member who has recent, significant fully explained in the Report on directors remuneration on pages 45 and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that both Ian to 52, the Companys remuneration policies encourage a Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
performance based culture which reinforces behaviour that will lead to the continued long term development of the business and align The attendance of individual directors at Audit Committee meetings executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
was as follows: Number of Number of meetings meetings Performance evaluation held attended Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried Ian Brindle Committee chairman 3 3 out during the year by each director completing questionnaires and Duncan Lewis 2 2 the results being collated and analysed by the Company Secretary 1 Tom Maxwell 3 2 who prepared a report for Board discussion.
The Board discussion Alex Walker until appointment as Chairman 1 1 concluded that the Board and its Committees operated well and were effective.
1 Mr Maxwell was unable to attend the meeting held on 3 March 2010 due to an unavoidable diary conflict.
42 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included in controls, including risk management, and has delegated certain of the Report on directors remuneration on pages 45 to 52. these responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
Nomination Committee At each meeting the Companys external auditors, the Chief Executive The Nomination Committee comprises Alex Walker Chairman, Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Vice President Finance, Ian Brindle, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell and meets at least the Head of Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary, who is once each year.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Secretary to the Committee, were in attendance.
attends by invitation from the Committee Chairman.
In addition, the Committee meets with the Companys external auditors without The attendance of individual directors at Nomination Committee management being present.
The minutes of Committee meetings are meetings was as follows: Number of Number of available to all directors.
meetings meetings held attended During the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed risk Alex Walker Committee chairman 1 1 management and internal control, reviewed the interim and full year 1 Edward Bramson retired 5 May 2010 1 0 financial statements, key accounting policies, the auditors report on Ian Brindle 1 1 the interim review and year end audit and managements responses 1 Gerard Eastman retired 5 May 2010 1 0 to the issues raised.
The internal audit programme and the external Duncan Lewis 1 1 audit strategy and scope for 2010 were also agreed and approved.
1 Tom Maxwell 1 0 Further details of internal control and process are set out on page 44.
Regular reports on tax, treasury and health and safety are presented.
1 Mr Bramson, Mr Eastman and Mr Maxwell were unable to attend the meeting held on Further details of the Groups Ethics Policy and health and safety 3 March 2010 due to unavoidable diary conflicts.
performance are contained in the Corporate social responsibility statement on pages 30 to 33.
The Chairman of the Committee reports The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the any significant findings or identified weaknesses to the Board.
composition and structure of the Board and for identifying and recommending candidates for executive and non-executive positions, The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to the provision based on the required role and capabilities which have been of non-audit services by the external auditor to ensure that the specified for the appointment.
Executive search consultants are used provision of such services does not impair the external auditors by the Nomination Committee to assist this process as appropriate.
Under this policy, certain non-audit As all of the Committee members are independent non-executive services are precluded.
The policy is reviewed and financial limits directors, the composition of the Committee is compliant with the for non-audit services are set on an annual basis.
The Committee terms of the Code.
considers that notwithstanding the non-audit services provided during the year, Ernst & Youngs objectivity as external auditors was Relations with shareholders not impaired.
Prior to recommending their reappointment as external The Board supports the use of the Annual General Meeting as a auditors, the Committee considered Ernst & Youngs performance, means of communicating with both private and institutional investors resource, quality control procedures, policy on rotating its audit and encourages their participation.
The Company is ready, where partners audit partners rotate every five years, independence and practicable, to enter into a dialogue with shareholders, through objectivity.
The Committee also considered the risk of Ernst & Young analyst briefings and investor presentations, all of which are made withdrawing from the audit market.
There are no contractual available on the Companys website at www.
Senior obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of executives meet regularly with institutional and major shareholders external auditor.
to facilitate stakeholders understanding of the Company and its objectives and to receive feedback which is then reported Remuneration Committee to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Tom Maxwell Chairman, Ian Brindle and Duncan Lewis.
Mr Maxwell joined the Committee as In November 2010 the Company held an investor day which was Chairman on 4 March 2010 following Alex Walkers appointment as attended by institutional investors, potential investors and analysts Chairman of the Company.
All members of the Committee are at which there was an opportunity to meet members of the Board and independent non-executive directors, making it compliant with the senior management.
Code in terms of independent non-executive directors.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 43 directors statement on corporate governance continued The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Tom Maxwell, The Groups system of risk management comprises an integrated risk consulted with the 20 largest shareholders in December 2010 management strategy of regular self-assessment of all business concerning remuneration policy.
Significant risks are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee obtained during these meetings was then shared with the and by the Board.
Remuneration Committee and given due consideration.
Management and specialists within the finance department are All of the Companys communications with shareholders are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial conducted in line with our environmental approach.
We hold the records and processes that ensure all financial information is majority of our events via webcast and conference calls and we relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and encourage all of our investors to receive communications regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely electronically where possible.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and Pensions governance results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial The Groups principal pension and retirement schemes are in the UK information published by the Group is subject to the approval of the and the US.
Scheme funds are held separately from those of the Audit Committee.
Group and are administered by trustees which include employees and independent bodies.
The schemes do not lend money or lease In addition to this process, the following key elements are critical to any assets to the Group.
the overall internal control environment: Internal control an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal defined lines of responsibility and delegated levels of authority: control.
The Board, assisted by the Audit Committee, has reviewed an ethics policy which has been approved by the Board, which the effectiveness of this system and this review did not reveal any sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees significant issues or weaknesses.
The Board confirms that this and operations.
The Ethics Policy also includes whistleblowing process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the procedures whereby employees may report, in confidence, date of approval of these financial statements.
The primary aim is to suspected wrongdoings: operate a system which is appropriate to the business and which can, a comprehensive strategic planning, financial control and over time, increase shareholder value whilst safeguarding the Groups budgeting system which is properly documented and regularly assets.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the reviewed: and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide a disciplined acquisitions and divestments due diligence process reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and post acquisition integration programme.
Process Day to day responsibility for effective internal control and risk monitoring rests with senior management at business unit level.
The Board and the Audit Committee continue to agree that currently there is no need for a dedicated internal control department.
Responsibility for internal control rests with the Group Vice President Finance and the North America Vice President Finance.
Both of these senior finance managers are independent of any business unit and play a key role in providing an objective view and continuing assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout the Group.
The Group consists of a limited number of entities which can comfortably be covered by the two senior finance managers.
As stated above, the Group Vice President Finance attends all Audit Committee meetings to give an update on any internal control issues arising and any outstanding remedial actions.
44 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010
