corporate Governance report corporate Governance the Board of directors of the company is committed to the company has in the past used recruitment consultants maintaining high standards of corporate governance and to search for a chairman and for additional independent to managing the affairs of the Group in accordance with non-executive directors and the nomination committee the provisions of the listing rules and of the combined has approved job descriptions for those roles.
code on corporate Governance, issued by the Financial during the Year the company appointed dr Keith Hellawell reporting council in June 2008 the combined code.
a search for a new chairman a copy of the combined code is available on the Financial through recruitment consultants had previously been reporting councils website at www.
upon the recommendation of an institutional Board has reviewed the companys corporate governance shareholder, dr Hellawell was interviewed and appointed processes and policies, and has concluded that during the to the Board.
52 weeks ended 25 april 2010 the Year the company complied with the provisions of the combined code except Following the departure of Malcolm dalgleish at the 2010 as set out below.
annual General Meeting, the company will continue to seek his replacement based on the job description the combined code code provision a3.2 recommends approved by the remuneration committee.
that at least half of the Board of directors of a uK listed company, excluding the chairman, should be comprised the Board currently believes, however, that the Board and of non-executive directors determined by the Board to be its committees as currently constituted are working well, independent in character and judgement and free from and that in a period of challenging economic conditions it relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could may be difficult to recruit an appropriate person to be an appear to affect, the directors judgment.
prior to the independent non-executive director of the company.
the appointment of the non-executive chairman, dr Hellawell, nomination committee and the Board will, continue to the company did not comply with this provision of the actively look to fill this appointment.
the Board is currently made up of the non-executive chairman, three executive directors and three independent non-executive directors.
the company the Board will continue to remain compliant until the retirement of Malcolm dalgleish at the aGM in september 2010. during the Year the Board comprised a non-executive chairman, three executive directors, and three nonthe combined code also provides code provisions executive directors.
the names and short biographies of B2.1 and c3.1 that each of the remuneration and audit the non-executive chairman and other directors are set committees of the Board should comprise of at least out on pages 36 and 37. three independent non-executive directors.
the code also provides that, in respect of the remuneration the non-executive chairman, Keith Hellawell and the committee, the company chairman may also be a non-executive directors are considered by the Board to member, but not chair the committee if he or she was be independent.
the Board considers that an independent considered independent on appointment as chairman.
director is one who is independent in character and until 23 november 2009 these committees comprised judgment, and where there are no circumstances that two independent non-executive directors and the acting are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, his or her chairman and as such did not comply with the code.
relationships or circumstances that could From 24 november 2009 and the appointment of the affect judgement include having been an employee of non-executive chairman the acting chairman reverted to the company or of any Group company during the past non-executive director and the company complied with five years, having had a material business relationship the code.
or having been a partner, shareholder, director or senior the combined code provides code provision a.
4.1 that employee of a body with a material business relationship with the company or any Group company in the past three the majority of the members of the nomination committee years, receiving remuneration from the company other should be independent non-executive directors.
until than directors fees, participating in any share option or 23 november 2009 the committee comprised the acting bonus schemes or in a company pension scheme, having chairman and two non-executive directors and did not comply with the code.
the committee is now compliant had close family ties with any of the companys advisors, directors or senior employees, having cross directorships with the provisions of the code due to the appointment of or significant links with any other director, representing a the non-executive chairman.
significant shareholder, or serving on the Board for more than nine years.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 43 corporate Governance report continued the Board continued simon Bentley resumed his position as senior independent retiring directors may seek reappointment if willing and non-executive director and is available to shareholders eligible to do so and if so recommended by the nomination if they have concerns which have failed to be resolved committee.
the chairman will, when proposing the through the normal channels of chairman, executive reappointment of a director, confirm that following formal deputy chairman, chief executive, or Group Finance performance evaluation, the directors performance director, or for which such channels are inappropriate.
continues to be effective and he or she continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
the company has entered into a relationship agreement with Mike ashley, the executive deputy chairman, whose Malcolm dalgleish will retire at this years aGM and will wholly owned company, MasH Holdings ltd currently not put himself forward for re-election.
Having been holds approximately 71.2% of the issued share capital of appointed since the last annual General Meeting, Keith the company excluding treasury shares, this agreement Hellawell will retire from the Board and being eligible is described in the directors report on page 40. will offer himself for election.
Mike ashley will retire by rotation, and being eligible will seek reappointment.
Given the structure of the Board and the terms of the relationship agreement, the Board believes that no the Board has adopted a formal process for the individual or small group of individuals can dominate the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees Boards decision making.
every year each director has an opportunity to express his or her views on the organisation the Board has established a nomination committee to and operation of the Board and its committees, their ensure a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure effectiveness and contribution to the business, and on for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
the any other matter they consider relevant.
these views are composition of that committee and a description of its expressed in response to a questionnaire prepared and terms of reference are set out on page 48. circulated by the secretary, who holds the comments of individual directors in confidence.
the results of these details of executive directors service contracts and of the questionnaires are consolidated and reported to the chairmans and the non-executive directors appointment chairman and, in so far as they relate to the chairman, to letters are given on page 53. copies of service contracts the senior independent non-executive director, and, in so and of appointment letters are available for inspection at far as they relate to the Board as a whole or to any of its the companys registered office during normal business committees to the Board as a whole.
the chairman has hours and at the annual General Meeting.
begun a process of evaluation which he will complete in the next financial year.
executive directors normally retire on reaching the age determined by the Board from time to time as the Given the current small size of the Board, the Board retirement age for executive directors.
does not consider the use of independent consultants appropriate or useful.
non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years from the annual General Meeting in addition the chairman will meet with individual following their joining of the Board, and, subject to directors privately at least once in every year, to review performance, there is an expectation of reappointment the contribution of that director to the Board and his or for a further period of three years.
the chairman has completed his executive director may be invited to serve for a further evaluation for the 09 10 financial year.
the chairman will and final three year term.
non-executive directors fees meet with the non-executive directors as a group and are determined by the Board in the absence of the nonin the absence of any executive directors at least twice a executive directors other than the chairman.
year, and as part of the Board evaluation programme the non-executive directors, led by the senior independent all directors appointed by the Board are appointed after non-executive director, will review the performance consideration of the recommendations of the nomination of the chairman, having taken account of the views of committee, and those so appointed must stand for the executive directors.
the senior independent nonreappointment at the following annual General Meeting.
executive director will undertake his first review of the every director must retire at least once every three chairman in the coming year.
years, and in addition at least one third of the continuing members of the Board must retire by rotation each year.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the Board and the nomination committee will consider For regular meetings the agenda will include reports the output from the evaluation programme in their from the chief executive and the Group Finance director, evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of the reports on the performance of the business and current Board, and in formulating development plans.
trading, reports on meetings with investors, reports from committees of the Board and specific proposals the Board provides corporate governance training for where the approval of the Board is sought.
presentations those directors appointed to the Board for whom it is are also given on business or strategic issues where their first appointment to a listed company board, and appropriate, and the Board will consider at least annually provides a tailored induction programme for all directors the strategy for the Group.
Minutes of the meetings of on appointment.
in addition the Board is made aware committees of the Board are circulated to all members of of material changes to laws and regulations affecting the Board, unless a conflict of interest arises, to enable all the Groups business from time to time.
all directors directors to have oversight of those matters delegated to have access to the advice and services of the company committees, and copies of analysts reports and brokers secretary, and each director and each Board committee notes are provided to directors.
may take independent professional advice at the companys expense, subject to prior notification to the attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings other non-executive directors and the company secretary.
during the Year and the total number of meetings that the company maintains appropriate directors and officers they could have attended are set out in the table below.
all directors attended all meetings of the Board and of committees of the Board of which they were members the division of responsibilities between the non-executive unless prevented from doing so by prior commitments.
chairman, the executive deputy chairman and the chief executive is in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
the chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, Audit Remuneration Nomination for ensuring its effectiveness, and for ensuring that all Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings directors are able to play a full part in the activities of the company.
He ensures effective communication with Keith Hellawell 2 2 2 2 3 3 2 2 shareholders, and that the Board has an understanding of Mike ashley 9 9 - - - the views of major investors.
the chairman is available to simon Bentley 9 9 4 4 5 5 3 3 provide advice and support to members of the executive Malcolm dalgleish 7 9 3 4 4 5 3 3 team.
the executive deputy chairman is an ambassador dave Forsey 9 9 - - - for the company, and takes the lead in the strategic development of the company, formulating the vision and Bob Mellors 9 9 - - - strategy in conjunction with the chief executive.
the chief dave singleton 9 9 4 4 5 5 3 3 executive is responsible for leading the management team, the running of the Groups business, for the delivery of the Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for the strategy approved by the Board, and for implementing decision by it.
Matters so reserved include the approval specific decisions made by the Board.
no one individual of the strategic plan and long-term objectives of the has unfettered power of decision.
Group, the annual budget and the allocation of resources the Board currently plans to meet on a formal pre-planned to achieve that budget, decisions relating to unbudgeted basis six times during each year with up to four additional expenditure over certain limits, significant acquisitions, strategy meetings at convenient time throughout the year disposals and joint ventures, other material contracts, changes to the corporate structure of the Group, the when broader issues concerning the strategic future of the appointment and removal of the company secretary, company will be discussed.
the Board will meet on other occasions as and when the business demands.
during the approval of accounting policies and practices and approval Year the Board met on nine occasions.
the Board delegates management of the businesses of the Group to the executive management, the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the and delegates specific responsibilities to Board company, and has a programme to enable it to discharge committees.
its responsibility of providing effective and entrepreneurial leadership to the company within a framework of prudent and effective controls.
an agenda is established for each meeting, and appropriate documentation is provided to directors in advance of them.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 45 corporate Governance report continued the Board continued audit committee the Board believes that the appointment of executive directors who served on the committee during the Year directors to be non-executive directors of other listed were: companies benefits the Group, through the additional simon Bentley chairman experience and knowledge gained by such an appointment, Malcolm dalgleish and accordingly, executive directors are permitted to Keith Hellawell accept one such appointment where no conflict of interest dave singleton arises, and to retain the fees received.
currently none of the executive directors holds such an appointment.
the chairman of the committee is a chartered accountant, and has recent and relevant financial experience.
all non-executive directors disclose to the Board prior to appointment their significant other commitments and they the committee met on four occasions during the Year.
are required to notify and have notified any changes to or additional commitments from time to time.
simon Bentley the committees programme is pre-planned to ensure that is chairman of Global Brands sn, Maypole Group plc and each aspect of its responsibilities is discharged as part of deputy chairman of the leadership trust.
He is also a an annual cycle during the companys financial year.
the director of Brasher leisure and chairman of cash on the main responsibilities of the audit committee are: Move.
dr Hellawell is currently non-executive director of Mortice plc, a singapore based facilities management assisting the Board with the discharge of its company.
the Board is satisfied that dr Hellawell and responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits simon Bentley meet their obligations to the company.
non-executive directors are available to meet with major Monitoring the financial reporting process and the investors.
integrity and clarity of the Groups financial statements, including making recommendations on judgments they contain and the financial reporting process.
Board committees agreeing the scope of the annual audit and the annual there are three principal Board committees, all of which audit plan and monitoring the same.
have written terms of reference.
summaries of the terms of reference and details of the membership of committees reviewing and monitoring the independence of the are set out below.
copies of the terms of reference external auditors and relationships with them and in are available from the company secretary and on the particular agreeing and monitoring the extent of the companys website.
only members of each committee are non-audit work that may be undertaken by external entitled to attend the meetings of committees, although auditors.
each committee may invite other directors, managers and advisors to attend and have done so.
Membership of advising on the appointment, reappointment and Board committees will be regularly reviewed.
Given the removal of external auditors.
current size of the Board, and the terms of reference, all non-executive directors are members of every Board reviewing accounting and financial reporting policies, terms of engagement and remuneration of the external committee.
auditors, and any changes thereto and the method of it is, however, the Boards intention that, when the number accounting for unusual transactions.
of independent non-executive directors appointed to the reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the internal Board permits, the chairman of the remuneration control and risk management policies and systems in committee will not serve on the audit committee, and vice versa.
the Board is satisfied that currently no one director place within the Group and ensuring that appropriate exercises a disproportionate influence.
arrangements are in place under which employees can raise concerns about possible financial or other attendance at meetings of committees is set out on the impropriety which are then appropriately investigated.
during the Year the committee considered the matters that fell within its area of responsibility above and in particular the arrangements for monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls, and also considered the current economic climate and its likely impact on the Group.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the audit committee will normally meet not less than the audit committee currently consists of three three times a year.
independent non-executive directors and the non-executive chairman.
upon the resignation of the external auditors attend meetings of the committee, Malcolm dalgleish the company intends to appoint other than when their appointment is being reviewed.
the another independent non-executive director to the Board.
Group Finance director also attends as appropriate.
the committee will meet with the auditors in the absence of executive management at least twice a year.
remuneration committee the audit committee considers annually the reappointment of the auditors and their remuneration, and directors who served on the committee during the Year makes recommendations to the Board, and the auditors were: are reappointed each year at the annual General Meeting.
dave singleton chairman the committee will consider the level of service provided simon Bentley by the auditors and their independence annually.
Malcolm dalgleish the committee has approved a policy on the engagement Keith Hellawell of the external auditors for non-audit work, in order to the main responsibilities of the remuneration committee ensure that the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the are to: Groups financial statements is not or may not be seen to be impaired, and has established a process to monitor determine the companys policy on executive compliance with that policy.
remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes, and targets and payments made thereunder.
the policy identified three categories of potential work.
Firstly, those tasks that the auditors may not provide, as determine the levels of remuneration for the chairman to do so would represent a real threat to independence.
and each of the executive directors.
that work includes the preparation of accounting entries or financial statements, it systems design and Monitor the remuneration of senior management and implementation, management of projects and tax planning make recommendations in respect of thereof.
where the outcome would have a material impact on the financial statements or where the outcome is dependent agree any compensation for loss of office of any upon accounting treatment.
secondly, types of work that the auditors may undertake the committee met on five occasions during the Year.
with the consent of the chairman of the audit committee.
included in this category are certain corporate finance during the Year the committee reviewed directors and services, acquisition due diligence, management senior managers remuneration arrangements, and consultancy and secondment of staff other than for the considered bonus schemes, in particular the Bonus share preparation of accounting entries or financial statements.
scheme and the proposed executive Bonus share scheme, approval of which will be sought at the annual General thirdly, there are services that the auditors may provide as Meeting of the company in september.
the work is clearly audit related and there is no potential threat to independence, including regulatory reporting and the committee considered directors salaries and acting as reporting accountants.
the company is satisfied determined not to increase them.
the committee decided that its policy falls within the requirements of the auditing whether any payments were due to executive directors practices Board.
under the 2007-08 annual Bonus scheme, and decided not to operate an annual Bonus scheme for executive every engagement of the auditors for non-audit work is to directors for 2010-11 due to the participation in the Bonus be reported to the next meeting of the committee.
the combined code recommends that the audit the committee also reviewed the performance share plan committee is made up of at least three non-executive and resolved to terminate it upon approval of the executive directors, independent in character and judgement and Bonus share scheme.
free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 47 corporate Governance report continued remuneration committee continued a report on the remuneration of directors appears on the nomination committee will meet at least once a year pages 50 to 56. the combined code recommends that and will also meet when appropriate.
the remuneration committee is made up of at least three during the Year the committee considered the non-executive directors, independent in character and appointment of the non-executive chairman and a further judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance non-executive director or directors, and also considered which may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, the standing for reappointment of directors retiring by affect their judgement.
the committee currently consists rotation.
of three independent non-executive directors and the chairman and complies with the recommendations set out dave Forsey, as chief executive, will normally attend in the combined code.
meetings of the nomination committee, save where the nomination committee is dealing with matters relating to upon the resignation of Malcolm dalgleish the company him or with the appointment of his successor.
intends to appoint an additional independent non-executive director to the Board who will also be the combined code recommends that a majority of the appointed a member of the remuneration committee.
nomination committee be non-executive directors, independent in character and judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which may, could or would be nomination committee likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
Members of the nomination committee during the Year upon the retirement of Malcolm dalgleish the company were: intends to appoint an additional independent non-executive director to the Board who will also be Keith Hellawell chairman appointed a member of the nomination committee.
simon Bentley Malcolm dalgleish dave singleton share dealing code the committee met on three occasions during the Year.
the company has a code of securities dealings in relation the main responsibilities of the nomination committee to its shares and other securities which is based on, and are to: is at least as rigorous as, the Model code as published in the listing rules.
the code applies to the directors and to review the Boards structure.
other appropriate employees of the Group.
review the composition and make up of the Board, including evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and internal controls and risk experience of the members of the Board.
management Give consideration to succession planning for directors.
the directors have overall responsibility for the Groups prepare a description of the role and capabilities system of internal control and risk management and for required for any Board appointment.
the systems of internal control and risk management are designed to manage, Make recommendations to the Board concerning the rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve standing for reappointment of directors.
identify potential candidates to be appointed as such a system can, however, provide only reasonable, and directors, and make recommendations to the Board as not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or the need may arise.
the nomination committee also determines succession Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring plans for the chairman and the chief executive, who will the conduct and operations of individual businesses not be present at meetings when such matters are being within the Group.
this includes the review and approval of discussed.
business strategies and plans, the setting of key business performance targets and the analysis of risk.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the executive management responsible for each business With the exception of Heatons, the Groups only material is accountable for the conduct and performance of their associate, the Groups system of internal control and business within agreed strategies.
risk management and its effectiveness is monitored and reviewed by the Board, the audit committee and Business plans and budgets for each business include management, and the Board believes that the Group has financial and strategic targets against which performance maintained throughout the Year and up to the date of is monitored.
Monitoring includes the examination of approval of the annual report and accounts an effective and changes to rolling annual and quarterly forecasts, embedded system of internal control and has complied monthly measurement of actual achievement against key with the turnbull guidance.
performance targets and plans, and weekly reviews of performance.
the Group has clear procedures for the approval and social, environmental and ethical control of expenditure.
strategic investment decisions matters involving both capital and revenue expenditure are subject to formal detailed appraisal and review according to the Group has for many years, recognised the benefits that approval levels set by the Board.
operating expenditure accrue from responsible employment, environmental and is controlled within each business with approval levels community policies.
details of the Groups activities in this for such expenditure being determined by the individual area are set out in the corporate responsibility report on businesses.
pages 58 to 63. the Group has a formal whistle blowing policy for employees who wish to raise any issues or concerns relating to the companys or Groups activities on a confidential basis.
executive management is responsible for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks applicable to their areas of business and for the development of a disaster mitigation and recovery programme.
the Group operates a retail support unit which provides strong operational internal audit services in the retail division, and there are procedures in place in the Brands division to monitor and control licensees.
the audit committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities, reviewing the reporting of financial and non-financial information to shareholders and the audit process, satisfying itself that appropriate systems of internal control and risk management are in place and are serving to identify and manage risk.
the auditors attend all meetings of the audit committee, save for those parts of any meeting when the committee reviews the performance of the auditors and when the committee is having separate discussions with the Group Finance director.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 49
