63 Introduction to SSE Corporate governance continued Directors report Nomination Committee Financial statements Shareholder information Members and meetings complements these qualities.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are Attendance considered and the selection process will Membership at meetings generally involve interviews with a number of candidates, using the services of a Lord Smith of Kelvin Committee professional search firm specialising and Board Chairman 1 1 in Board level recruitment.
Thomas Andersen 1 1 Nick Baldwin 1 1 The Committee also reviews succession Richard Gillingwater 1 1 planning and leadership needs in the Ren Mdori 1 1 course of its work taking into account Lady Rice 1 1 the risks and opportunities facing the Ian Marchant 1 1 Company, and from this identifies the Lord Smith of Kelvin skills and expertise required from the Nomination Committee Chairman The Committee is chaired by the Chairman Board and senior management team.
of the Company and its membership comprises of all the non-Executive Activities in 2009 10 Directors and the Chief Executive.
The Nomination Committee had one meeting during the year, and reviewed The Board Chairman would not chair the Board structure, succession planning, the meeting when it was dealing with any committee membership and Directors matter concerning the chairmanship of conflicts of interest.
In this case the meeting would be chaired by a non-Executive Director Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman elected by the remaining members.
Members of the Committee do not take part in discussions when their own performance or when their continued appointment is being considered.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Role The Nomination Committees role is to review the leadership needs of the Board and senior management, with a view to ensuring SSEs continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committees remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, includes responsibility for: k reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and making recommendations to the Board on any desired changes: k reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors: k making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates to fill vacancies for non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors: k ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria for purpose: and k reviewing potential conflicts of interest of Directors.
Before an appointment is made the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board to ensure that any new appointment
