Scottish and Southern Energy 60 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Members and meetings policies and procedures and Attendance risk management systems: Membership at meetings k monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Ren Mdori internal audit function: Committee Chairman 3 3 k monitoring and reviewing the Thomas Andersen 2 3 objectivity and independence of Nick Baldwin 3 3 the external Auditors taking into Richard Gillingwater 3 3 consideration the scope of their work and fees paid for both audit The Board has determined that each and non-audit services: member of the Committee is independent k monitoring and reviewing the and that the membership meets the significant risks identified by each Ren Mdori requirements of the Code.
In accordance business unit as well as the mitigating Audit Committee Chairman with the Code, Ren Mdori is identified action against those risks: as having recent and relevant financial k monitoring and reviewing the experience through his position as arrangements by which employees Finance Director of a major international can in confidence raise concerns listed company.
about any possible improprieties in financial and other matters: and The Finance Director, Energy Supply k reviewing the significant financial Director, Head of Group Internal Audit reporting issues and judgments.
and the external Auditors normally attend and report at its meetings.
The Company Activities in 2009 10 Chairman also regularly attends Audit The Audit Committee had three meetings Committee meetings.
Senior management in the year.
The key activities of the including the Group Treasurer and Audit Committee during the year are Corporate Finance Manager, Group set out below: Financial Controller, Director of Energy Portfolio Management, Director of Financial statements Corporate Affairs and Head of Portfolio k reviewed the financial statements in Support may also be invited to present the 2009 report and accounts and the reports.
During the year, the Committee interim results.
As part of this review met privately with the external Auditors, the Committee received from the and separately with the Head of Group external Auditors a report on their audit Internal Audit.
of the annual report and accounts and their review of the interim results: and The Company Secretary is Secretary k reviewed the annual and interim to the Audit Committee.
The Committee has unrestricted access Control environment and risk management to Company documents and information k received six-monthly reports by as well as to management and the Group Internal Audit setting out the external Auditors.
The Audit Committee audit programme, its progress against Chairman reports the outcome of the programme, the results of key Committee meetings to the Board.
audits and other significant findings, the adequacy of managements Role response and the timeliness of The Audit Committee assists the resolution of actions: Board in the effective discharge of its k reviewed and agreed the Group responsibilities for financial reporting Internal Audit Plan for the year and internal control, together with the ending 31 March 2010: procedures for the identification, k received six-monthly reports from assessment and reporting of risks.
energy trading and treasury setting The Audit Committees remit, which is out strategy, market developments, set out in its terms of reference, includes any significant risks and the controls responsibility for: in place to mitigate these risks: k received six-monthly reviews from k ensuring that the Companys financial Group Internal Audit on the Internal reports and formal announcements Control Risk Assessment setting out the represent an accurate, clear and Group Risk Map and Residual Risk Map: balanced assessment of the k reviewed Post-Investment Appraisal Companys position and prospects: Reports: and k monitoring and reviewing the k received reports under the Group effectiveness of the Companys whistleblowing policy and reviewed accounting systems, internal control the implementation of this policy.
61 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information External audit process removal of the external Auditors.
The Audit k reviewed the effectiveness of the overall Committee considers that the relationship audit process for 2009 10, meeting with the Auditors is working well and with the Auditors and management remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
separately to identify any areas of There are no contractual obligations concern in the preparation of the restricting the Companys choice of financial statements: external auditor.
The external Auditors k reviewed independence and objectivity are required to rotate the audit partners and agreed the terms of appointment, responsible for the Group and subsidiary areas of responsibility, associated audits every five years and the current lead duties and scope of the audit as set partner has been in place for one year.
out in the engagement letter for the forthcoming year: Upon the recommendation of the Audit k reviewed and agreed the audit fees, Committee and approval of the Board, fees for non-recurring work and the resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc regulatory reporting fee: as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors k reviewed internal control and key to fix their remuneration, will be proposed accounting and audit issues: and at the forthcoming AGM.
k reviewed recommendations made Ren Mdori by the Auditors in its management Chairman letter and the adequacy of managements response.
Independence of Auditors k reviewed changes in the Audit team: and k reviewed the extent of non-audit services provided by the Auditors in accordance with the established policy where: a competitive tender process is required where non-audit fees exceed a threshold of 30,000 for general advice and 75,000 for tax-related advice: the Committee must be satisfied that the work was best handled by the Auditors because of their knowledge of the Group: and the Committee must be satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the Auditors was not affected by the work.
The Audit Committee continued to monitor the level of non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors.
The non-audit work awarded during the year included: k taxation advice including general consultancy, acquisitions, disposal and new markets: and k accounting due diligence.
Full disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year is made in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
KPMG Audit Plc has been the external auditor of the enlarged Group since 1999.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment and
