CoRpoRATE GovERNANCE One of the Board meetings is devoted solely to strategy.
If a Director introduction is unable to attend a meeting, they receive the relevant papers and are invited to comment in advance of the meeting.
the Board is responsible for delivering value to shareholders During the year under review, the Board continued to be led and other stakeholders, by developing strategy and by by the Chairman, Gerald Corbett.
Garry Watts, the Chief Executive, is leading the group, ensuring that the appropriate resources, primarily responsible for the effective running of the Groups business.
processes and controls are in place to execute that strategy.
There is a clear, written schedule on the division of responsibilities developing and maintaining high standards of corporate between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the governance is integral to the delivery of value.
Chairman and Chief Executive, there are three Non-Executive Directors this report explains ssls corporate governance one of whom, Peter Read, is the Senior Independent Director SID arrangements and how the group has applied the combined and two Executive Directors.
code on corporate governance the code.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in his biography.
The Board is satisfied that the other commitments of the Chairman do not interfere with the performance of his duties as Chairman.
The Board considers that all of the Nonthe BoArd Executive Directors are independent in character and judgement, and There is a written schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
3.1 of the Code and that controls are in place to This schedule includes: ensure that no single Director has unfettered powers of decision.
Approval development of the Groups long-term objectives and The management of operational matters within the Group is commercial strategy: delegated to the Executive Committee, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
Biographical information Approval of annual operating and capital expenditure budgets and on the members of the Executive Committee is shown on page 36.
The any material changes to them: Executive Committee meets monthly.
Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary BoArd evAluAtion corrective action is taken: During the year, the Board reviewed the process for the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and the individual Directors.
Approval of major capital projects, including acquisitions: Previous evaluations have been conducted internally and led by the Approval of contracts which are material strategically, or by reason Chairman, whilst the SID conducted the evaluation of the Chairman.
of size: and The Board concluded that this process remained appropriate.
The Chairman held discussions with the individual Directors.
Monitoring the system of internal control and corporate governance.
The evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on a number of areas, including the development of strategy: risk To ensure proper consideration at the appropriate time, the Board management: the composition of the Board and its processes: and has a schedule of matters for each meeting.
These matters include: the Board committees.
The SID held discussions with the individual Reports from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: Directors in relation to the performance of the Chairman.
The results of the evaluation were presented to the Board at its meeting in April 2010.
Health and safety: No significant areas for development were identified.
Presentations from the heads of the business units: The Board considers the annual evaluation to be a valuable process, which has contributed to fostering an environment within the Investor relations: Board that is challenging but supportive, encourages focus on the main Regulatory reviews: and issues facing the Group and further enhances the Boards procedures and working practices.
diAlogue with shAreholders The Board also receives regular updates on relevant legal and The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme environmental matters.
involving existing and potential shareholders within the UK and overseas.
The schedule below sets out the number of scheduled Board This is led by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, who along and Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance by with other senior executives, meet with institutional investors on a Directors at those meetings.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders as scheduled Audit nomination remuneration Board committee committee committee required.
The Senior Independent Director attends the annual and meetings meetings meetings meetings half-year results presentations with shareholders and analysts.
An r. Adam 7 3 6 4 investor relations report which includes details on share price i. Adamson 7 movement, any significant changes in shareholdings and analysts g. corbett 7 6 4 reports is presented and considered at each Board meeting.
p. Johnson 7 3 6 4 The Board uses the Annual General Meeting, which all m. moran 7 Directors attend, to communicate with investors and encourage p. read 7 3 6 4 their participation.
The Directors are available to speak informally g. watts 7 6 with shareholders after the meeting.
Non-Executive Directors 38 39 CoRpoRATE GovERNANCE CONTINUED governAnce AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 BoArd committees ExTERNAL AUDITORS: The KPMG Audit Director attends all Audit The Board has established three committees.
The performance of KPMG as the external auditor operates in accordance with formal terms of reference, which are was reviewed during the year and having undertaken this review, the reviewed annually and can be viewed on the Companys website, Audit Committee recommends their reappointment.
The committee chairmen report at the next Safeguarding the independence of the external auditors is Board meeting on the proceedings of the committee which they chair.
paramount and controls are in place to ensure their continued independence.
However, there are occasions when services can be Audit committee more efficiently undertaken by the external auditor and at no risk of The Audit Committee comprises the three independent Non-Executive impairment of their independence.
The Audit Committee has put in Directors and is chaired by Richard Adam.
Mr Adam is the Finance place a detailed policy on the provision of services by the external Director of Carillion plc and therefore has recent and relevant financial auditors, which sets out the services that the external auditors are experience.
allowed to carry out on behalf of the Group and those which are The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
Under this policy, external auditors cannot be At the end of each meeting, the Audit Committee meets privately with engaged to provide any of the following services: the external auditors without management.
The Company Secretary Design or implementation of IT systems: acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
The activities of the Audit Committee are undertaken in line with an annual work plan.
valuation: Internal audit: and PRINCIPAL ACTIvITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE yEAR: Corporate finance advice, recruitment, or executive compensation FINANCIAL STATEMENTS: The Audit Committee reviewed and advice.
considered with management, the annual and half-year results and interim management statements.
As a part of its review, the Audit Secondment of senior audit staff to the Company is also prohibited.
Committee considered the reports of the external auditor on the annual Under this policy, it has been agreed that due to their and half-year results.
understanding of the Groups business and therefore ensuring cost efficiency, the external auditors may be engaged for the following INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT: The Group has in place non-audit services, for which there is a pre-agreed limit for fees an ongoing process for evaluating the system of internal control and this not including vAT which do not require prior approval from the is monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Group maintains an internal Audit Committee: audit function and the Head of Internal Audit attends each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups internal Audit-related regulatory reporting including half-yearly review, audit processes and approves the annual internal audit plan.
The Head covenant reporting and other audit certificates 100,000 p. a. : of Internal Audit also meets in private with and has direct access to the Further assurance including advice on accounting matters, nonAudit Committee.
regulatory reporting on internal controls or corporate governance, due The Audit Committee reviews the Groups risk management diligence work and environmental audits 50,000 per project : and procedures.
A significant element of this is the Group Risk Matrix the Matrix, which was reviewed by the Audit Committee twice during the year.
Tax compliance and tax advisory services 50,000 per project.
WHISTLE BLOWING ARRANGEMENTS: The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups whistle blowing arrangements to ensure that employees may raise concerns about possible malpractice or wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees on a confidential basis.
The arrangements provide for the proportionate and independent investigation of any such matters.
BoArd committees memBership Audit nominAtion remunerAtion chAirmAn richard Adam peter read peter read memBers Peter Johnson Richard Adam Richard Adam Peter Read Gerald Corbett Gerald Corbett Peter Johnson Peter Johnson Garry Watts Attending By Group Chairman Group HR Director Chief Executive invitAtion Chief Executive Company Secretary Group HR Director Finance Director Company Secretary Group Commercial Director External auditor Head of Internal Audit Financial Controller Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may approve urgent The Board has established ongoing procedures for identifying, engagements not covered by these categories, subsequently notifying evaluating and managing significant risks and these are reviewed the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
Risk management is embedded within the day-to-day activities The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of of all executives.
Management of this area is the responsibility of the non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors does not impair Executive Committee.
A significant element of this process is the their independence.
maintenance of a Group Risk Matrix the Matrix.
The Matrix contains A breakdown of fees paid to the external auditors during the both financial and non-financial risks, identified through regular year is set out in note 2 on page 65.
The Audit Committee reviewed the top-down and bottom-up reviews.
More detail on the Matrix is given on fees and recommended their approval to the Board.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than nominAtion committee eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can The Nomination Committee comprises all the Non-Executive Directors, provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material including the Group Chairman and the Chief Executive.
It is chaired misstatement or loss.
by the Senior Independent Director.
The Human Resources Director The Board believes that the Company operates an effective attends meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as ongoing and embedded system of internal control, including in secretary.
The Nomination Committee met on six occasions during relation to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the the year and its principal activities during the year were: consolidated accounts and is confident that it complies with Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Reviewing the size and composition of the Board including the mix Report.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up of skills and experience: to the date of the approval of this report.
Succession planning for the Board and senior management: Further information about the risk management processes is given on pages 32 and 33.
Reviewing and making recommendations to the Board in relation to Directors conflicts: and directors conflicts of interests At the request of the Board, the Nomination Committee reviewed The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider the process for the evaluation of the Board and its committees.
and, if it sees fit, to authorise potential conflicts of interest and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate when giving any authorisation.
The remunerAtion committee Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing annually any conflict The Remuneration Committee comprises all the Non-Executive authorisations granted by the Board and will make recommendations Directors including the Group Chairman and is chaired by the Senior as to their continuation and any changes to any terms or conditions.
The Chief Executive and Human Resources Conflicts were authorised by the Board in compliance with the formal Director attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Directors are required to inform the The Company Secretary acts as secretary.
The Remuneration Chairman and the Company Secretary of any new potential or actual Committee reviews the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors conflict of interest.
The procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers and senior executives and met on four occasions during the year.
of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively will be reported Further details on the work of the Remuneration Committee are annually.
included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 51. comBined code compliAnce internAl control During the year and up to the date of this report, the Directors consider The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control that the Company complied with the Code.
and for reviewing its effectiveness, and this is monitored by the Audit Committee.
Key elements of this system include: going concern After making enquiries, the Directors believe that the Group and the Regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of matters reserved Company have adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable for Board discussion: future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Clearly defined segregation of duties, organisational structures and in preparing the financial statements.
Further details are included in the appropriate delegation of authority adherence to which is kept under Financial review on page 31. review : Centralised treasury operations operating within defined limits: Group accounting manuals and procedures: Annual compliance statements from all statutory units within the Group, stating compliance with Group accounting manuals: and An effective internal audit function, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee and provides independent scrutiny of internal control systems and risk management procedures.
