Corporate governance report comprise nine directors.
Excluding the Chairman, the Board considers that 6.1 Introduction five of these directors are independent non-executive directors, as follows: The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance Independent Independent Non-Executive Other practices within the Group in conformity with the Combined Code on Chairman Director Director Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Robert Speirs Chairman This section of the report discusses Stagecoach Groups corporate governance Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director arrangements and management structures.
It also includes the disclosures Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director recommended by the Combined Code, and describes how the principles of Sir George good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined Code have been Mathewson Non-Executive Director applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are provided from each of Garry Watts Non-Executive Director the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Health, Safety and Phil White Non-Executive Director Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Ann Gloag Non-Executive Director Corporate governance is again under intense focus in light of recent, Brian Souter Chief Executive perceived governance failures, particularly in the financial services sector.
The Martin Griffiths Finance Director Stagecoach Board remains committed to maintaining a corporate In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board governance structure appropriate to the Group and its strategy.
Good considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the corporate governance remains central to delivering our objectives in the areas following questions: of safety, risk management, shareholder value, financial performance, organic growth, service delivery and staff.
As explained later in this report, we have Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive again undertaken a review of the effectiveness of the Board and its management?
Committees and we consider the corporate governance structure to remain Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and appropriate for the Group.
viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Board and its Committees?
6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for The Financial Reporting Council FRC issued the current edition of the the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Combined Code in June 2008, which applies to accounting periods beginning Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the on or after 29 June 2008 and is available on the FRCs website at Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy http: www.
The Directors believe and executive managements running of the business?
that throughout the year ended 30 April 2010 the Group has complied with all of the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The Group also complies Ewan Brown, one of the five independent non-executive directors shown in with the corporate governance requirements of the Financial Services the above table, has served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
director of Noble Grossart, which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company recognises and understands investor concerns over longer-serving nonIn May 2010, the FRC renamed the Combined Code as the UK Corporate executive directors but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as Governance Code and made changes to it.
This new edition of the Code will independent.
Ewan Browns long association with the Group enables him to apply to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and the Company provide a robust and effective challenge to management because of the will consider what changes are appropriate to its own corporate governance sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
arrangements in light of the new edition.
The Board believes that Ewan Browns length of service, when taken in the context of the Board as a whole, enhances his effectiveness as a non- 6.3 Composition of the Board executive director and that he remains independent in character and judgement.
In recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code The Companys Board now comprises the following directors: for determining independence, Ewan Brown stands for annual re-election as Date of a director.
In addition, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration appointment Planned Proposed Proposed if later than date to for re-election for election Committee or the Audit Committee.
1 May 2009 leave Board at 2010 AGM at 2010 AGM Directors that will remain on the Board after 30 June 2010 6.4 Operation of the Board Robert Speirs Ewan Brown The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional Helen Mahy 1 January 2010 meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between Sir George Mathewson scheduled Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to Garry Watts the next scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board Phil White 1 June 2010 and its Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal Ann Gloag contact with each other and with the Groups management on a range of Brian Souter matters.
Martin Griffiths The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Directors that will leave the Board on 30 June 2010 Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as Iain Duffin 30 June 2010 the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards Janet Morgan 30 June 2010 strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has dayThe Combined Code suggests that independent non-executive directors to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
From strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief 1 May 2009 to 31 December 2009, the Companys Board comprised nine Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
From 1 January 2010 to 30 April 2010, the Companys Board The Directors biographies appear on pages 18 and 19 of this Annual Report comprised ten directors.
From 1 July 2010, the Companys Board will page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 25 and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
concerns leading to his or her resignation.
The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the 6.5 Operational management of the Group decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group periodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
The the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-toDirector, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary North America: headed by two Chief Operating Officers and UK Rail: headed and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups by a Chief Executive up until he left the Group on 28 February 2009 and since expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their then headed by the Executive Directors which each comprise a varying duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal number of autonomous business units, each headed by a chairman or is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring managing director who is responsible for the day-to-day performance of the the Board procedures are complied with.
Each chairman or managing director is supported by his her All the Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the own management teams.
Annual General Meeting following their appointment and all the Directors are A Rail Business Development Committee, comprising the Executive Directors required to stand for re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
and other senior management, oversees the performance and development Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, who are not considered by of the Groups rail business, including bidding on new rail franchises.
the Board to be independent, or are considered independent but have served A Chief Executive heads the Groups joint venture, Virgin Rail Group.
The on the Board for more than nine years, submit themselves for annual reGroup has two representatives on the Board of Virgin Rail Group.
the Group has three representatives on the Board of Twin America LLC, which Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently is headed by a chief executive.
such training or briefings as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
Training can encompass environmental, social and governance matters.
The Chairman endeavours to 6.6 Performance evaluation ensure that all the Directors including any newly appointed directors attend The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each the Annual General Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the meet the Directors and to address questions to them.
Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior The number of full Board meetings during the year was seven.
The full Board Independent Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
In May 2010, the Board visited the Groups bus operations The Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the in Cambridgeshire.
Some of the Directors also attended health and safety performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the meetings of operating companies during the year.
completion of a questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment individual director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board each committee of which he or she is a member.
papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: considered during the year ended 30 April 2010 included: The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: Evaluating the potential opportunity to acquire all or parts of National Express Group plc: The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of the Group: Assessing the Groups overall strategy in light of developments in the bus and rail sector: The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Board and its committees: Reviewing the Groups financing arrangements, including considering of the issue of a new corporate bond that was completed in December 2009: The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and In conjunction with the Groups management, monitoring the financial performance of the Group during weaker macroeconomic conditions and The composition of the Board and its committees.
determining appropriate responses, particularly in the UK Rail Division: The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded Monitoring the progress of the South Western Trains arbitration and: that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective and constructive manner.
Reviewing the composition of the Board and agreeing the appointment of new directors.
Succession planning in respect of the Directors was previously identified from the assessment of effectiveness as a key area where focus was required and The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under the appointments of Helen Mahy and Phil White during the last six months review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve reflect the attention given to refreshing the composition of the Board.
To provide a more manageable process and better Succession planning for the Chairman has been identified as an important control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
area and the Nomination Committee is overseeing the plans in this regard.
Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 26 Corporate governance report 6.7 Composition of Committees The composition of the various Board Committees has been updated to reflect the changes in the composition of the Board, as summarised below: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of members of Committee: 3 Number of members of Committee: 3 All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and designated member with recent Chairman and relevant financial experience Iain Duffin Until 30 June 2010 Garry Watts Sir George Mathewson From 30 June 2010 Other members Other members Iain Duffin Until 30 June 2010 Sir George Mathewson Chairman from 30 June 2010 Helen Mahy From 30 June 2010 Garry Watts Janet Morgan Until 30 June 2010 Phil White From 30 June 2010 Phil White From 30 June 2010 Nomination Committee Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Number of members of Committee: 4 except for the period from 26 Number of members of Committee: 4 except for the period from February 2010 until 30 June 2010, 1 January 2010 until 30 June 2010, when there has been and will be when there has been and will be 5 members 5 members All members are independent Non-Executive Chairman Directors except Robert Speirs who is Janet Morgan Until 30 June 2010 Chairman of the Company.
Helen Mahy From 30 June 2010 Chairman Other members Robert Speirs Martin Griffiths Chairman for succession planning in respect Iain Duffin Until 30 June 2010 of the Chairman of the Company Ann Gloag Ewan Brown Helen Mahy From 1 January 2010 and Chairman from 30 June 2010 Other members Phil White From 30 June 2010 Sir George Mathewson Janet Morgan Until 30 June 2010 Garry Watts From 26 February 2010 6.8 Reports from the Committees Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out on pages 29 to 38 of this Annual Report.
6.9 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2010: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 77 n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 1 1 Brian Souter 77 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 Martin Griffiths 77 n a n a n a n a 44 n a n a 11 Ewan Brown 77 n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 1 1 Iain Duffin 7 7 33 33 4 4 n a n a 11 Ann Gloag 67 n a n a n a n a 34 n a n a 11 Helen Mahy 11 n a n a n a n a 11 n a n a n a n a Sir George Mathewson 77 n a n a 33 n a n a 11 1 1 Janet Morgan 77 3 3 n a n a 44 1 1 1 1 Garry Watts 7 7 33 33 n a n a n a n a 11 Phil White n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 27 The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control 6.10 Relations with shareholders and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director The Board considers communications with shareholders to be extremely of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within important.
The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major that unit.
institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is financial media.
ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the maintaining a separate risk profile.
full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to UK and overseas.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders and all approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The shareholders can receive annual reports.
monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the of the Groups overall goals.
Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to recommended by the external auditors.
Virgin Rail Group has its own audit committee and internal audit function.
The Private and institutional shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at Groups risk management process does not specifically cover Virgin Rail Group, the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims but the Group maintains an overview of Virgin Rail Groups business risk to ensure that all the Directors, including the chairmen of the Audit, management process through representation on the board and audit Remuneration, Nomination and Health, Safety and Environmental committee.
Stagecoach management representatives also meet regularly with Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
representatives of Virgin Rail Group to ensure that the joint venture follows The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to appropriate risk management procedures.
question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate 6.12 Internal control resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, Resolutions are proposed annually in respect of the financial statements and enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Directors remuneration report.
At each Annual General Meeting, the the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key Chairman reports, after each show of hands, details of all proxy votes lodged procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: for and against each resolution, and the number of votes withheld.
Details of an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, the proxy votes are also published on the Groups website at identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company and panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are properly business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
6.11 Risk management a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, and third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where the Board considers that the process accords with the Turnbull Guidance on significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, internal control.
treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and competition policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of 15 and 16. responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of control over the activities of joint ventures and associated undertakings business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some through Stagecoach representation on the boards of the entities together cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and with regular contact between Stagecoach management and the manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing management of the relevant entities.
and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although the system can provide only reasonable and not a performance management appraisal system covers the Groups senior absolute assurance of material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is management and is based on agreed financial and other performance designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any risks or objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The significant emphasis is placed on cash flow management.
Bank balances Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and certification by are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a the business heads of each operating unit.
Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each identified regular reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being businesses for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2010 and up to acquired or divested.
the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such reviews to the business.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The management of each business confirming that they have reviewed the Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 72218 StCchV9 FRONT:72218 StCchV9 FRONT 29 6 10 07:52 Page 28 a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and 6.14 Pension schemes which is subject to regular monitoring.
The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate A number of minor internal control weaknesses that these procedures from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent identified will be monitored and addressed in the normal course of business.
There are twelve trustees for the principal UK scheme of None of the weaknesses have resulted in any material losses, contingencies or whom five are employee representatives nominated by the members on a uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
This regional basis and one is a pensioner trustee.
The chairman of the trustees of process is considered to be an integral part of the maintenance and the principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as improvement of our risk management procedures.
a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension 6.13 Process for preparing consolidated financial Scheme, of which he is the Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme statements trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Ewan Brown, and also The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters Management regularly monitors and considers developments in affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and obtains explanations for any material differences.
The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external auditors on significant judgements, changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to external audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The Group auditors review the audit workpapers for material joint ventures and associates that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
