Audit Committee report corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The non-audit fess of 0.4m 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee include 0.3m in relation to the issue of corporate bonds and the proposal to The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 6.7.
Garry acquire certain businesses of, or merge with, National Express Group plc.
This Watts is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered related to work that was best undertaken by the auditors.
The Committee Accountant, a former audit partner, a former Finance Director and a serving believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does not impair the Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company, and therefore is competent in both objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained from accounting and auditing.
The designated Committee member with recent using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the Groups and relevant financial experience is therefore Garry Watts.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used where the joins the Committee on 30 June 2010, is a former Finance Director and Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or where former Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company and is also a Chartered potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee 7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing The Audit Committee met three times during the year and has met a further Non-Audit Services two times in May and June 2010.
The Committee retains discretion as to Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: who from outside the Committee should attend its meetings but generally Audit related services - These are services that the auditors must undertake invites the following to attend: or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such The Group Finance Director: services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, The Company Secretary: and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all The Deputy Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: such services, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
Representatives from the external auditors: Tax consulting - It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors In addition, the Group Tax Director is expected to present to the Committee for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the at least annually.
work being undertaken, subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
Other directors, including the Chairman of the Company, are also welcome to General consulting - For other consulting work, the Group will select an attend meetings of the Committee and do so from time to time.
advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence audit teams independence or a conflict of interest.
and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups website at 7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees audit.
pdf The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of 7.3 Review of External Auditors disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making Risk Assurance Function.
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the external auditors.
quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance Group and the auditors.
This review includes: function on an annual basis.
the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: 7.6 Speaking Up Policy the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately or offices of the same firm are involved: and upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit process on an annual basis.
Whilst the Group has no set frequency for tendering the external audit, the Groups external audit was last tendered in 2002 and resulted in a change of external auditors.
The audit engagement partner last changed in 2006.
The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of external auditors.
Garry Watts The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance Chairman of the Audit Committee during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 23 June 2010 0.7m 2009: 0.7m for  LLP and non-audit related fees of 0.4m 2009: 0.2m were discussed by the Audit Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group and the level of Stagecoach Group plc | page 29
