Nomination Committee report In the 2009 Annual Report, the Nomination Committee noted that two non- 8.1 Composition of the Nomination executive directors, Iain Duffin and Janet Morgan, would reach nine years Committee service as directors of the Company in 2010 and that it was intended that they The membership of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section would each step down as directors once appropriate successors were in place.
The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive The appointments of Helen Mahy and Phil White mean that both Iain Duffin Directors, as necessary.
and Janet Morgan will step down as directors in June 2010.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to plan the succession of the Chairman and continues to plan for this.
The Committee recognises that the Board has a strong pool of Non-Executive Directors, which includes individuals with experience of 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee chairing similar companies and or the potential to chair the Company.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, Accordingly, in planning the succession of the Chairman, the Committee knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting examines both the scope for succession from within the existing Board as well new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a as from elsewhere.
description of the role and the required attributes for each particular The Committee also recognises that as co-founder of the Company, the Chief appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of Executive has had a long and integral association with the Company.
This the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having close association of Chief Executive and Company brings different challenges other significant commitments.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose in planning for the succession of the Chief Executive.
Whilst the Committee their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to recognises that the Chief Executive remains committed to his role for the meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any foreseeable future, it nevertheless reviews the succession plans for the Chief significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee Executive and other executive management.
will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection of each of Helen Mahy and Phil White, the most recent appointments to the Board, were made following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of candidates.
Robert Speirs Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new Chairman of the Nomination Committee appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time commitment.
23 June 2010 No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees nom.
pdf The appointments of Helen Mahy and Phil White to the Board help maintain the balance of skills and experience of the Board.
Both have wide-ranging experience with large publically quoted groups.
In addition, Helen brings particular skills and experience of legal, regulatory, and health and safety matters.
Phil has particular expertise in the management of bus and rail operations as well as broader operations and financial management experience.
8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business units, both in the UK and North America.
The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
