Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 The Board believes that high and operation of Executive that it complied with all key provisions remuneration and succession standards of corporate governance are of section 1 Companies of the intrinsic to the Companys culture and planning: Combined Code.
In particular: They are the basis for the The Board has also taken account of accountability of Executive They are centr al to its core values the UK Corporate Governance Code, management to the Board and and strategy, including integrity, of the Board to Companys published by the Financial Reporting professional excellence and shareholders.
sustainability, as stated in this Although compliance with the Code This report outlines how the Company Annual Report: is not yet formally required, the table has complied with the Main Principles below summarises how the Company They underpin the objectivity of the Combined Code on Corporate has applied the main supporting of such processes as balance Governance, revised by the Financial sheet and cash management, principles and provisions of the Code Reporting Council in June 2008 the risk management, the design Combined Code.
The Board considers since its publication.
Relevant section of the Code Commentary including relevant Code provision A.
1 The Role of the Board The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and overall control of the Group, setting a framework of prudent and effective controls to enable risks to be properly assessed and managed.
Its primary role is to create value for stakeholders, to agree and approve the Groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices, whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources are in place to enable those objectives to be met.
In undertaking this, the Board also reviews management performance and sets the Companys values and standards, with all Directors acting in what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
Certain powers are delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committees, with details of the roles and responsibilities of these Committees being set out under the relevant section below.
In addition, the Board has agreed Terms of Reference for its other formal committees in order to facilitate more efficient working practices and these include the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, a Routine Business Committee, a Disclosure Committee and CSR Committee, to provide a clear framework of delegated and other authorities.
During 2010, all Committees terms of reference were updated, particularly in the light of the UK Corporate Governance Code and ICSA best practice guidelines.
1.1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has identified key financial and operational areas that require regular reporting and which enable the performance of Executive management to be reviewed and monitored.
These are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed and kept updated on a regular basis.
The schedule outlines all matters requiring specific consent of the Board, which include, inter-alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies.
The schedule therefore facilitates structured delegation, subject to certain financial limits and provides SThree plc 29 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued a practical framework for executive management reporting, which seeks to achieve the objectives of maintaining effective financial and operational controls, while providing sufficient flexibility to manage the business.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on the Companys website, www.
1.2 The current Directors of the Company, including biographies, are shown within the section Board of Directors and Secretary, as set out earlier in this Annual Report, with further details of Board Committee membership being set out below.
The number of, and attendance at, Board and Committee meetings during the year, is also shown in a table below.
Almost all meetings were fully attended and, outside these, there was frequent contact between Directors to discuss the Companys affairs and develop its business.
1.3 Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
2.1 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Responsibilities Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and approved by the Board so that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
3 The Chairman The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, timing, and setting its agenda but has no involvement in the day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chairman allows adequate debate by all, whilst facilitating the effective contribution of the NEDs, including Board induction and evaluation, ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NEDs and that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information, to facilitate effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and overall responsibility to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, under a job description which clearly sets out these responsibilities.
As stated below, the Chairman met on appointment and continues to meet the independence criteria set out under the Code.
4.1 Tony Ward is appointed as the Senior Independent NED and is available to Directors shareholders to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the normal channels.
4.2 The Chairman meets with the Non Executive Directors NEDs without the Executive Directors being present, either before or after each Board meeting and this is formally minuted, whilst the Senior Independent Non Executive Director SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
4.3 Each Director ensures that if he she has any concerns which cannot be resolved, about the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes, whilst upon resignation, Non-Executives are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board, should they have any concerns.
SThree plc 30 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued B.
1 Composition of The Board comprises a balance of Executive and NEDs who bring a wide range of skills, the Board experience and knowledge to its deliberations.
The NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability and have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best longterm interests of shareholders, but also to take proper account of the interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The NEDs are all experienced and influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no one individual or small group dominates the decision making process.
Directors have a wide range of experience of various industry sectors relevant to the Groups business and each member brings independent judgement to bear in the interests of the Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The Board is of sufficient size to match business requirements, whilst accommodating any changes, and members have an appropriate and varied range of skills, vital to the success of the Group.
The composition of the Board and its various Committees is reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the Boards and the Committees balance of skills, expected time commitment, knowledge and experience.
The Directors aim is to ensure that the balance of the Board and its Committees reflects the changing needs of the Groups business and therefore composition, balance and skills are all regularly monitored and refreshed as necessary.
1.1 Excluding the Chairman, the other NEDs have been determined by the Board throughout the year as being independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
1.2 The Board comprises the Non Executive Chairman, who is not classed as independent because of his position but who met the independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment, three Executive Directors and four independent NEDs.
This is in compliance with the Code, which requires at least half of the Board to consist of independent NEDs.
2 Appointments Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, upon the to the Board recommendation of the Nomination Committee and after appropriate external consultation, bearing in mind the Boards existing balance of skills and experience, the specific role needs identified, and with due regard for diversity, including gender.
Succession planning aspects are regularly reviewed by the Committee, in order to ensure an orderly progression refreshment of senior management Board members and maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity both within the Company and on the Board.
2.1 2 Under the direction of the Nomination Committee, each formal selection process is conducted, using external advisors, consisting of a series of interview stages, involving Directors and other senior Executives, each being set against a specific role definition and objective criteria.
Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below.
2.3 NEDs are appointed for specified three year terms, with all Directors being subject to annual re-election.
The Companys Articles of Association set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of Directors.
SThree plc 31 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued B.
3.1 During 2009, when the Nomination Committee last initiated the search for a new Director, a detailed job specification was prepared, setting out an assessment of the time commitment expected.
All potential Director candidates are required to disclose any significant outside commitments prior to appointment and must undertake that they have sufficient time to meet these, in addition to Company business, particularly in the event of a crisis.
3.2 Upon joining the Board, each NED receives a formal appointment letter which identifies their formal responsibilities and expected minimum time commitment, being typically two days per month.
These letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
4 Development At scheduled Board and Committee meetings, Directors receive detailed reports from executive management on the performance of the Group, with managers giving regular presentations on their areas of responsibility.
NEDs are invited to attend the Groups annual conference in order to join senior management from each geographic area, to discuss current initiatives and Board meetings are also scheduled at office locations spread throughout the globe, in order to allow all Directors to meet local managers and improve international understanding.
Directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as Directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, governance and accounting matters.
Regular updates are provided on a range of other relevant topics, as required, and Directors are also encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role in order to facilitate their professional development.
These measures help to ensure that the Directors continue to develop their knowledge of the Groups business and get to know its senior management, as well as being aware of their general responsibilities.
In addition, the Board encourages Executive Directors to accept external appointments in order to broaden their experience, although currently no such positions are held.
4.1 An induction programme is available for new appointments and this is tailored to each individual to ensure that it is appropriate for their role and level of previous experience.
Directors and other senior Executives attend analysts briefing sessions and major shareholders may, upon appropriate request, meet new NEDs.
4.2 As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Chairman assesses and agrees any training and development needs in respect of individual Directors, including on environmental, social and governance ESG matters, where appropriate.
Following the 2010 evaluation exercise, specific training needs were identified for all Executive Directors.
5 Information and Board and Committee meeting papers are circulated well in advance of the relevant Support meeting and where a Director is unable to attend he she is provided with a copy of the papers and has the opportunity to comment on the matters under discussion.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to all the Directors, irrespective of Committee membership.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows between the Board Committees and senior individuals NEDs, as well as assisting in other areas and has primary responsibility for advising the Board, via the Chairman, on all governance matters.
SThree plc 32 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued B.
5.1 Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors and no such advice was sought during the year.
All Committees are serviced by the Group Company Secretarys team and are appropriately resourced.
5.2 Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are complied with and to assist in arranging any additional information as required.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole and the last appointment was made in October 2006.
6 Evaluation An annual performance evaluation process, led by the Chairman, is in place to evaluate the Board, Committees and individual Directors.
Questions are designed to ensure that the performance of each individual Director and the functioning, constitution and work of the Board and each Committee are properly assessed.
The Chairman also discusses the individual performance of Directors, in consultation with other Directors.
These assessments concluded that, overall and individually, the performance of the Board, each Committee and each Director was and is effective and that Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
6.1 The evaluation process is considered to be both formal and rigorous and takes the form of a questionnaire completed by each Director, giving his her assessment of both collective and individual performances, with the results being reviewed and debated at both Board and Committee level as well as with the individual Director concerned, where appropriate.
As a result of the action points arising from the 2010 evaluation, a number of improvements have been made in areas such as risk management information flows to the Board, length of meetings, NED mentoring, succession planning scope and Executive development initiatives.
6.2 The Board will continue to develop its evaluation processes, as necessary, in order to take into account evolving best practice with regard to external facilitation, although no external provider has yet been appointed.
6.3 The SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
7.1 The Companys Articles of Association state that a Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next AGM, unless re-elected during that meeting.
Additionally, each Director must retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year following the year in which he she was elected or last re-elected, but shall be eligible for re-election.
However, as recommended by the Code, all Directors will retire and seek re-election at the AGM annually.
7.2 Reference to performance and commitment of Directors, as well as an explanation of the reason why each retiring Director should be re-elected, are all provided in the Notice of Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Company also complies fully with the Code in respect of its AGM voting arrangements and RNS disclosure.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officers Reviews, Business Reporting tak en together with this Directors Report, provide information relating to the Groups activities, its business and strategy and principal risks and uncertainties faced by the SThree plc 33 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued business, including analysis using financial and other KPIs where necessary.
These, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility Reports, provide an overview of the Group, including environmental and employee matters and give an indication of future developments in the Groups business.
This provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, in accordance with the Code.
C. 1.1 The Directors responsibility for preparing the accounts and statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report and Independent Auditors Report, respectively.
C. 1.2 An explanation of the business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group is included as part of the Chief Executive Officers and Chief Financial Officers Reviews.
C. 1.3 A going concern statement is included in the Directors report.
C. 2 Risk Management C. 2.1 The Boards statement regarding its review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk and Internal Control management and internal control systems is set out below and this is reviewed annually.
C. 3 Audit Committee Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under and Auditors the relevant section below.
D. Remuneration D. 1 Level and Components The Directors Remuneration Report sets out in full, the policies and practices which demonstrate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
D. 2 Procedure Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below and in the Directors Remuneration report.
E. Relations with Shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Company produces Shareholders Annual and Interim Reports which are published for all shareholders and the Companys website contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities, investor presentations and published financial results.
Shareholders can also subscribe for e-mail alerts of important announcements made.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, whilst ensuring that price sensitive information is released at the same time to all, in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Presentations are made after the Company has published its full and half year results and there is also dialogue on specific issues, such as the appointment of a new Chairman, Minority Interests, introduction of and changes to the Long Term Incentive Plan and on other key remuneration issues.
E. 1.1 The Chairman, Senior Independent and other NEDs are available to shareholders to discuss governance or strategy issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Executive Directors.
During the year, both the Chairman and SID conversed with shareholders, with appropriate feedback being provided to the Board at its next following meeting.
SThree plc 34 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued E. 1.2 Views of analysts, brokers and institutional investors are sought on a non-attributed basis via periodic sentiment surveys and these, as well as regular analyst and broker publications, are circulated to all Directors to ensure that all can develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Any issues or concerns are raised at the Board and Directors routinely receive regular reports on share price, trading activity and sector updates.
E. 2 Constructive The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and use of AGM institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
E. 2.1 The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and the proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
E. 2.2 The Companys registrars ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders attending the meeting.
There is full disclosure of the voting result via RNS and on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the AGM has concluded.
E. 2.3 All Board members are encouraged to attend the AGM and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
E. 2.4 The Notice of AGM is posted at least twenty working days prior to the date of the meeting and the Companys website contains copies of all Notices issued.
Board and Committee Composition and Attendance in accordance with A.
1.2 of the Code As stated, the Board has established various Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures and powers.
During 2010, all Committees terms of reference were updated, particularly in the light of the UK Corporate Governance Code and ICSA best practice guidelines and all Committees operate in accordance with the relevant terms of reference, approved by the Board, with copies of these being available on request from the Group Company Secretary or downloadable from www.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings held during the year, the Board met for an off site strategy session held over two days and for the AGM.
The number of meetings held for the Board and each respective Committee, and attendance thereat, is as follows and includes the meetings held in early December 2010: Directors Possible attendance Actual attendance  Audit eration ination Board Audit eration ination Clay Brendish 6 N A N A 1 5 N A N A 1 Russell Clements 10 N A N A 2 9 N A N A 2 Sunil Wickremeratne 9 N A N A N A 9 N A N A N A Alex Smith 10 N A N A N A 10 N A N A N A Gary Elden 10 N A N A N A 9 N A N A N A Tony Ward 10 N A 4 2 10 N A 4 2 Alicja Lesniak 10 4 4 2 9 4 3 1 Paul Bowtell 10 4 N A 2 8 4 N A 1 Nadhim Zahawi 10 4 4 N A 8 3 3 N A Clay Brendish was appointed as Chairman on 1 May 2010 and, due to prior commitments, was unable to attend all meetings.
The other Directors were unable to attend due to other business or parliamentary commitments, although full Board packs were despatched and separate discussions held on relevant points of interest in all cases.
SThree plc 35 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued Companys internal audit function: to charged, including compensation Audit Committee in make recommendations to the Board, structure and meets with the external accordance with C. 3.1 to C. 3.7 for it to put to the shareholders for auditor at least once a year without of the Code their approval in general meeting, management present.
The Audit Committee consists of in relation to the appointment, Paul Bowtell Chairman, Alicja re-appointment and removal of the The Committee considers that the Lesniak and Nadhim Zahawi, and external auditor and to approve relationship with the external auditors accordingly comprises at least three the remuneration and terms of is working well and remains satisfied independent NEDs as required by the engagement of the external auditor: with their effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer, to annually review and monitor the to date, it has not considered it the Chief Financial Officer, the Group external auditors independence and necessary to require PwC to re-tender Company Secretary and the external objectivity and the effectiveness for the audit work.
The external auditors attend all meetings at the of the audit process, taking into auditors are required to rotate audit request of the Committee.
Paul consideration relevant UK professional partners responsible for the Group Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant and regulatory requirements: to audit every five years and the and is considered by the Board to develop and implement policy on the current lead audit partner has been have recent and relevant financial engagement of the external auditor in place for two years.
There are no experience, given his recent role to supply non-audit services, taking contractual obligations restricting the as Chief Financial Officer of TUI into account relevant ethical and Groups choice of external auditor.
professional guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by In 2009, the Committee reviewed its The Committees principal the external audit firm, reporting to policy on non audit work which may responsibilities are set out in its terms the Board, identifying any matters be undertaken by the external auditor of reference and, broadly, are: to in respect of which it considers that and closely monitors such work.
This monitor the integrity of the financial action or improvement is needed and policy provides that non-audit work statements of the Company and any making recommendations as to the may be carried out by the external formal announcements relating to steps to be taken and generally to auditor only where that work does not the Companys financial performance: identify and report on any business impair independence or objectivity reviewing any significant financial areas where action or improvement and where the Committee believes reporting issues and judgements are needed and recommend actions that it is in the Groups best interests contained within them: to review the to be taken.
to make use of the external auditors Companys internal financial controls, knowledge of the business, skills and internal control and risk management The Committee considers experience.
Such work has included systems and reporting thereon, matters relating to the detailed local statutory audits or other including advising on risk appetite, recommendation for appointment, services required due to legislation, tolerance and strategy, as well as risk re-appointment, remuneration as well as assurance work and other exposures and assessment: advising and terms of engagement of specialist services where no internal on proposed strategic transactions, the Companys external auditor, resource is currently available.
The including conducting due diligence  LLP PwC.
Committee continuously monitors appraisals and focussing on Both the Committee and the external the quality and volume of this work, risk aspects: assessing material auditors themselves have safeguards the level of fees incurred, as well breaches of risk limits: advising on in place to ensure that objectivity as safeguards, in order to assess risk performance and remuneration and independence is maintained, whether to use other accounting aspects: reviewing arrangements by including the periodic rotation of the firms or appropriately qualified which Group employees may raise audit partner.
In addition to the annual organisations and, as a consequence, concerns about possible improprieties appointment of the external auditors has now appointed BDO LLP to in financial reporting or other such by the shareholders, the Committee provide general tax advice.
matters and ensuring appropriate regularly reviews their independence follow up: assessing procedures for taking into consideration relevant In accordance with APB Ethical detecting fraud or preventing bribery: UK professional and regulatory Standards and FRC guidance, this overseeing the remit of the risk requirements.
The Committee policy clearly specifies: i which management function: to monitor reviews performance and fees types of non audit work are excluded, and review the effectiveness of the SThree plc 36 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued for example, book-keeping: design, blowing hotline, as part of the the Board and, in the light of this, implementation and operation of arrangements set up and monitored prepared an appropriate description of systems: actuarial and internal by the Committee, so that employees the role and capabilities required for audit control functions: executive are able to report any matters the particular appointment, with the management functions and legal or of concern, where this does not successful appointee being selected other financial services: ii the types conflict with local laws or customs.
from candidates proposed by external of work for which external auditors More information is given within advisors and chosen entirely on merit.
can be engaged without referral to the the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee, i. e. provided such services section.
In terms of succession planning, are specifically listed within the policy the Group has continued its Top and fall below 50,000: and iii for Nomination Committee in 60 leadership initiative, bringing which types of work a referral to the accordance with B.
2.2 together key managers from around Committee is necessary, i. e. non listed and B.
2.4 of the Code the globe at regular sessions, in order services or those listed within the to identify and develop the most The Nomination Committee consists policy which are above 50,000. talented individuals for executive of Clay Brendish Chairman, Tony positions.
As part of this initiative, Ward, Alicja Lesniak and Paul Bowtell Details of fees paid to the external Egon Zehnder International undertook and accordingly comprises a majority auditors for both audit and non audit detailed evaluations of senior key of independent NEDs as required by work are given in the Notes to the individuals below Board level, with the Code.
The Committee outputs being discussed by the has fully evaluated this work against Committee, which closely monitors The Nomination Committees its formal policy and remains these activities to ensure that they are terms of reference are, broadly: comfortable that it is appropriate and continually aligned with the Groups to regularly review the structure, the fees justified.
Non Executives are also size and composition including the of non audit fees paid out in 2010 is to be involved in the mentoring of skills, knowledge and experience higher than the level of audit fees paid selected key individuals, from time to and diversity of the Board, make out, much of this work is in relation to time, as agreed with the Committee recommendations with regard to key projects, including in particular and initiatives such as Women in any changes and to review and the Groups corporate simplification Management have been instigated prepare relevant job descriptions project, as well as for general tax during the year to promote diversity.
The level of non audit fees also considers future succession is expected to reduce significantly Remuneration Committee in planning for Board and other senior in 2011, given the significant accordance with D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 Executive roles, reviewing leadership streamlining of the Groups structure of the Code and other role needs, bearing in mind which was achieved, predominantly the balance of skills, knowledge, The Remuneration Committee in 2010, as well as the appointment experience and diversity already is responsible for making of BDO LLP to provide tax advice, as on the Board, so as to maintain an recommendations to the Board on mentioned above.
The Committee Group policy for the remuneration of engages external search consultants the Chairman, the Executive Directors, Following its creation, the Group has with respect to both Executive and the Group Company Secretary and continued to expand its internal audit Non-Executive Board appointments, certain key senior management function, which is now at full strength.
and considers applicants from all posts and for the determination, The Committee believes that this backgrounds, as was the case for within agreed terms of reference, of function remains effective and adds the most recent appointment, being additional benefits for each of the significant value.
In this, and in other Executive Directors, including pension cases, the Committee first conducted rights and any compensation for The Group also has in place a an evaluation of the balance of loss of office.
The Committee is also dedicated independent whistle skills, knowledge and experience on responsible for the implementation SThree plc 37 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued and operation of employee share compliance controls and enterprise categorised according to probability incentive arrangements.
The risk management ERM systems.
and financial impact and measured Committee comprises a majority of These are designed to manage, rather according to strictly defined criteria, independent NEDs as required by than eliminate, the risk of failure as set out under the Board approved the Code.
Full information on the to achieve the Groups objectives, risk management policy.
More composition, role and operation of and can only provide reasonable, significant risks are distilled to form the Remuneration Committee and not absolute, assurance against the Groups key risk register, which is Directors Remuneration is detailed in material mis-statement or loss.
The closely monitored by the Committee the Directors Remuneration Report.
Board considers, in assessing what and risks include, amongst others, constitutes reasonable accuracy, those relevant to the processes for the materiality of financial and nonfinancial reporting and the preparation Effectiveness of the Companys financial risks and the relationship of consolidated accounts, with risk management and internal between the cost, or benefit, resulting appropriate mitigation measures.
control systems in accordance from the risk management or internal with C. 2.1 of the Code control systems.
Following the gap analysis The Board has overall responsibility undertaken by external ERM for monitoring the effectiveness of The Board regularly reviews the specialists in 2009, during 2010 the Companys risk management and actual results compared with the the Group continued to roll out its internal control systems in order to budgeted and forecast performance ERM framework throughout the safeguard shareholders investments of the Group, as well as other key business and has consequently and the Groups assets.
Executive performance indicators, which are further developed and enhanced its Directors and senior management are detailed within the Directors Report.
risk evaluation and ERM reporting responsible for the implementation mechanism, including holding a and maintenance of the systems, further strategic risk workshop During 2010, the Group continued which are subject to periodic, and at involving Executive Directors, to rationalise its brands in order least annual, review by the Board, Regional MDs, Country Directors and to implement a Country Director via the Audit Committee where key function heads.
As a result, the structure, under Regional MDs, and appropriate.
As explained above, in following steps were taken during lines of responsibility and delegated response to business requirements, the year: the Group also created an internal authorities were reviewed, with audit function in 2008 in order to policies and procedures updated and facilitate this process.
Country Directors now own localised risk registers, with Assessment of risk and The Board, via the Audit Committee, regular presentations being made Enterprise Risk Management monitors the continuous process by to the Board to include progress ERM framework which critical risks to the business on risk mitigation, with underlying are identified, evaluated and managed reviews of risks integrity also now The Board, through the Audit and this process explicitly includes undertaken regularly: Committee, has overall responsibility the risks and opportunities to enhance for risk management activities and value arising from ESG matters.
implementing policies to ensure that Audit Committee meetings The process is consistent with the all risks are evaluated, measured include regular presentations by Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and kept under review by way of MDs Country Directors, etc, on and has been in operation for the appropriate KPIs and this forms the their approach to business risk period under review and up to the date basis for the Groups ERM framework.
management and tracking of of approval of this Annual Report.
Under this framework, all Executive, improvement areas: Regional and Country Directors, key The Board assesses the Companys support functions and other relevant Annual risk focussed leadership risk management and internal control parties take ownership of their related workshop scheduled, with ERM systems, including material controls risks, creating specific sub-Group specialists in attendance: such as financial, operational and risk registers, with risks being SThree plc 38 Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 continued appropriate to prepare the accounts of A formal risk management policy As part of its ERM procedures, both the Group and the Company on and procedure document have the Board takes account of the the going concern basis.
been approved by the Board and significance of ESG matters to communicated Group-wide: the business of the Company.
Corporate Social and Adherence to these procedures Environmental Responsibility and disclosure of relevant issues Group risk appetite has now been The Board recognises that the Group is monitored by the Internal Audit fully defined and formalised, with has a responsibility to act ethically function and also reviewed by Group and localised measures in relation to the physical and social external ERM specialists as part of being rolled out to MDs Country environment in which it operates, and the overall ERM framework.
Directors via appropriate KPIs that failure to do so could adversely some being detailed within impact on the Groups long and shortthe Directors Report, with The Board has reviewed but has term value as a result of financial remuneration also being subject to not identified any significant ESG penalty and loss of customer support.
measurement against managing risks to the Companys short and It takes such responsibilities seriously business risk: long-term value or opportunities to paying due regard to international and enhance value.
local laws in all its dealings.
Further Remaining key Executive job details are disclosed in the Corporate descriptions have been re-drafted The Board has received adequate Social Responsibility Report.
to include reference to their risk information to make this responsibility.
assessment by way of its ERM Share capital procedures and, where necessary, Information on the Companys share has taken account of ESG matters The Groups ERM arrangements have capital is set out within the Directors in the training of Directors as well been designed to meet, as closely as Report.
as ensuring inclusion in bonus possible, the appropriate BSI standard structures.
BS 3100 on risk management processes.
Consequently, the Group has continued to reap the benefits The Board has ensured that the of its enhanced ERM framework Company has in place effective Steve Hornbuckle through improved strategic and systems for managing and Group Company Secretary individual region sector focus on mitigating significant risks.
28 January 2011 key risk areas, with greater clarity Where relevant, these incorporate on risk ownership, identification of performance management opportunities as well as threats, whilst systems and appropriate also facilitating better monitoring remuneration incentives.
of progress, mitigation measures and ensuring appropriate forward There are no ESG-related risks looking assessment, including, where and opportunities that may relevant, reference to ESG matters.
significantly affect the Companys short and long term value or the Association of British Insurers future of the business.
ABI guidelines on responsible investment disclosures Going concern In respect of the Companys The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the ABI guidelines on budget for the financial year ending responsible investment disclosures, 27 November 2011 and medium term the Board confirms the following, in financial projections, for the next three relation to its responsibilities, policies years.
After taking account of the cash and procedures, with appropriate KPIs flow projections, including proposed detailed within the Directors Report: capital expenditure and considering the availability of borrowing facilities, the Board has concluded that it is SThree plc 39
