Corporate Governance Report Year Ended 28 February 2010 Above all other objectives, the Board is there to ensure that the Group provides long term and sustainable growth for its shareholders.
Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this growth Senior Independent Director by ensuring that there is effective authority and accountability Nick Watts is Group Senior Independent Director, his role is to: throughout the organisation.
The base that the Group uses for this is the 2008 Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot Council and appended to the Listing Rules and which sets out best be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief practice of how a company should be run.
Whilst the Group was incorporated in Guernsey and hence was not Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the Chief required under law to comply with the Combined Code, the Board Executive Officer and his team.
is committed to its standards.
Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at least The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with once a year, without the presence of the Chairman or the Executhe Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, explain the tive Directors, in order to review the Chairmans performance in reason for non-compliance.
his role and also the Chairmans relationship with the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Company Secretary and independent advice The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles.
The Company Secretarys role is to act as advisor to the Board on matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in conjunction with The Chairmans role is to manage the Board of Directors, ensure the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between the that the Non-Executives are committed to their positions and are Board, its various committees, the Non-Executive and Executive able to contribute to the management of the Group as a whole.
Directors and Senior members of the Executive Team.
The Chief Executive Officers role is to implement strategy laid down by The Non-Executive Directors have access to his advice and servthe Board of Directors and to manage the Group and its operations.
ices in addition to independent, professional advice if required at The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the success of the Groups expense.
Matters reserved for the Board and how it operates Board balance and independence In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal The Board now consists of nine individuals, five of whom including schedule of matters requiring its decision.
This schedule is availthe Chairman are independent Non-Executive and four are Execuable on the Groups website.
In summary, those matters reserved tive Directors.
Over the past year, this Board has had the to the Board include: appropriate balance and skill set to advise on the Groups growth.
It was recognised that the Board would benefit from Non-Executive Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and their Directors who have more operational and industry-specific knowlpotential consequence on the Group and the environment in edge.
During the year, Richard Burrell and Nigel Rawlings stepped down Continuing review of Group performance against its forecasts.
from the Board and were replaced by Daniel Dayan and Jesper Consideration and approval of financial results, dividend policy Kjaedegaard.
Daniel is a Chartered Mechanical Engineer and is and payments.
Chief Executive Officer of Fibreweb plc.
Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group.
Jesper was Chief Executive of the Maersk Company UK Ltd until Approval of financial and other commitments above those delerecently and now runs his own ports infrastructure consultancy gated to the Executive.
He is also President of the British Chamber of Shipping Monitoring internal control and risk management.
and Chairman of Maritime UK.
Appointment of the Executive Directors on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
43 Stobart Group Limited Corporate Governance The Board has met for eight scheduled meetings during the course The Committees members are Rodney Baker-Bates Chairman, of the 12 months under review and attendance at such Board Andrew Tinkler and Nick Watts.
For new potential Non-Executive Meetings by individual Directors is set out below.
Board members, the Nomination Committee meet and agree to appoint an external consultant to assist with the selection of a In addition, it has met with members of the senior management shortlist of potential Non-Executive Directors.
team on 14 October 2009 to discuss the Groups vision and strategy and review business planning and risk mechanisms.
Once this shortlist is presented, the Nomination Committee meet and undertake a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Director Number of Number of meetings attended meetings possible During 2009, the Board engaged an external consultant to advise and assist on the selection and recruitment of two Non-Executive Rodney Baker-Bates 88 Directors.
Andrew Tinkler 88 Careful consideration is given by the Nomination Committee to William Stobart 88 ensure that any appointees to the Board have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge Ben Whawell 78 and experience on the Board is maintained.
David Irlam 68 When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will Chair the Committee Nick Watts 78 instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee has found a suitable Michael Kayser 88 candidate, the Chairman of the Committee will make the proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the Richard Burrell resigned 30 June 2009 33 whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
Nigel Rawlings resigned 30 June 2009 33 Daniel Dayan appointed 01 July 2009 45 Information, induction and professional development Jesper Kjaedegaard appointed 01 July 2009 55 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive comprehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the Non-Execperform their duties properly.
Board papers are normally distributed utive Directors to challenge performance of the various Divisions five days in advance of scheduled Board Meetings.
against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions which have New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the Board, taken place since the preceding meeting, and to receive reports typically including meeting members of the senior management from the Boards committees.
team and visits to operational sites.
All Directors have access to the Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes, which advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible permit any Director to record their views if they have any concerns to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve.
No such concerns were voiced during this period.
Board Director evaluation and training The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with Executive Appointments to the Board Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions about their performThe Board has established a Nomination Committee which is ance with them, as does the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so required, The Board has also appointed an independent consultancy to in order to make recommendations to the Board on the composiundertake a review of the effectiveness of the governance arrangetion, balance and membership of the Board.
This evaluation included the following: A review of the Board and key committee papers for the precedThe Nomination Committee ing 12 months and other background materials: The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointInterviews of current Board members, the former Non-Executive ments and makes recommendations to the Board on the structure, Director, Nigel Rawlings and the Company Secretary.
size and composition of the Board and succession planning for Observation of the Board meeting on 29 July 2009.
A report of findings was presented to the Board in September 2009.
Report and Accounts 2010 44 Corporate Governance Report Continued The Company Secretary generally deals with enquiries from individThe Audit Committee ual shareholders.
com contains published The Audit Committee is to establish formal and transparent information and press releases.
arrangements for considering how to apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an appropriate relaWhistleblowing policy tionship with the external auditors.
The Board has prepared and approved a whistleblowing policy The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statewhich has been circulated within the Company.
This policy ments, internal financial controls and internal audit functions.
The includes arrangements for employees to raise concerns about Committee also makes recommendations to the Board in relation possible improprieties in financial or other matters.
Arrangements to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
include independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action.
Audit Committee membership The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Kayser and its other Internal control and risk management members include Rodney Baker-Bates, Nigel Rawlings resigned The Directors responsibilities in connection with the financial state- 30 June 2009 and Daniel Dayan appointed 01 July 2009.
The ments are set out in the Directors report on page 40.
The Board, Company Secretary acts as its secretary.
through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Groups system Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and the Nomination Comof internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
mittee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of mitigating The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two members.
actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving the Only members of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary Groups strategy.
Internal control gives the Board reasonable but are permitted to attend meetings.
However, the Chief Financial Offinot absolute assurance.
The Board has an ongoing process for cer and the Groups external auditors will normally be invited to identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the attend meetings.
Group and maintains a risk register.
At least once a year, the Audit Committee will meet with the external The system of internal control is based upon: auditors without the Chief Financial Officer or any other Executive Directors present.
The Group has an organisational structure with established lines Attendance at Audit Committee meetings of accountability, as well as clearly defined levels of authority.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from 1 March Regular, and at least annual review, by the Board and the Audit 2008 which are available on the Groups website require it to Committee.
meet at least three times per year.
During the period under Compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005. review, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, with attendance as set out in the table below: Support by company policies in other areas such as finance.
Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to achieve strategic objectives.
It can also only provide reasonable and not Number of Audit Committee Meetings in the period 4 absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Member Number of meetings attended The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveMichael Kayser 4 ness of internal control including financial, operational and compliance controls, together with risk management in accordance Nigel Rawlings 2 with the Code over the period of this report, and to the date of its publication, and confirm that no significant failings or weaknesses Rodney Baker-Bates 4 have been identified.
If they had been, the Board confirms that the Daniel Dayan 1 necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
The Audit Committee review the independence of the auditors at the interims and at year end.
Shareholder relations The Company is committed to maintaining good communications Corporate responsibility with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, have dialogue with individual David Irlam, Executive Director, takes Board level responsibility for institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of developing and implementing the Groups policy and approach for their views which are periodically fed back to the Board.
Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts and This includes its arrangements for matters relating to people, sociinvestors covering the annual and half year results.
In addition ety and the environment.
members of the Board meet with institutional investors and analysts on a periodic basis.
45 Stobart Group Limited Corporate Governance
