Synergy Health plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the directors continued Corporate Governance Disclosure of information to auditors Combined Code Compliance The directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this report con rm The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each director has taken Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code.
The directors are all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of the opinion that the Company has been in compliance with the provisions of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors of the Code up to the date of this report except where any non-compliance are aware of that information.
To reinforce compliance with the Code and ensure day-to-day focus on corporate governance is maintained, during Auditors the year the Board has appointed a full-time company secretary to the A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Board.
The Group Company Secretary will work closely with the Board Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and in particular with the non-executive directors to establish best practice corporate governance across the Group.
Annual General Meeting The following statements set out the principles and methods to which The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 July 2010 at the of ces they adhere.
of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London EC2V 7QP.
The notice convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special The Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual business are set out in a shareholder circular which will be posted with Report and the financial statements are set out above.
the Annual Report & Financial Statements and proxy voting papers Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the The Board Notice of Meeting.
As at 28 March 2010, and as at the date of this report, the Board of Directors was made up of six members, comprising a non-executive Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual chairman, two further non-executive directors and three executive financial report directors.
The non-executive directors are considered by the Board We con rm that to the best of our knowledge: to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable judgement.
The non-executive directors are considered to re ect a set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
D K Nichol is liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and the the senior independent Director.
undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Biographical details of the directors currently in of ce are shown on The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and page 38.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive directors undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together is detailed in the Remuneration report on page 46. with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The procedure for appointing directors is detailed in the Nomination On behalf of the Board Committee section below.
T C Mason All directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders at the first Group Company Secretary Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election at least once every three years.
Should a non-executive director serve 3 June 2010 for more than six years, his re-election would be subject to particularly rigorous review.
Should any director serve for longer than nine years he would then be subject to annual re-election.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis when required.
The Board met 10 times during the year, and attendance for each is set out on page 44.
The Board is responsible for the overall direction and management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to create shareholder value, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable these objectives to be met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision which it reviews and agrees annually but also delegates speci c responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board SEB and certain board committees.
Synergy Health plc 43 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Speci c responsibilities reserved for the Board include: During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy and strategic Committees by means of a written questionnaire.
The evaluation focused business plan.
The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each on several areas including Board structure, meeting administration, year to conduct a review of its strategy, with the SEB and other senior meetings and their content, strategy, Board committees, communication executives in attendance for certain sessions as appropriate: and information, and governance.
The results of the evaluation were The approval of financial statements, interim dividends and considered and discussed by the Board.
Performance evaluations, recommendation of the final dividend: including skills brought to the Board and the contributions each director made to it, were carried out for each director.
New directors receive a full Approval of any signi cant changes in accounting policies or practices: and formal induction, but this does not include a formal offer to meet Financial matters including the Groups strategy, the approval of the major shareholders, although they can if they wish.
annual budget and financial plans, changes to the Groups capital The non-executive directors have not held formal meetings to approve structure, approval of contracts over 3 million annual revenue, the Chairmans performance although this remains under review.
acquisitions and disposals of businesses which are greater than 5% of the Companys share capital and signi cant capital expenditure Board committees over 10 million: Senior Executive Board Treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter into contracts The SEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, that are not in the ordinary course of business and authorising bank the Group HR Director, the Group Company Secretary and the CEOs of facilities including bank borrowing, other loans and internal rate swaps : each of the regions of the Group and meets at least monthly.
Board membership and powers including the appointment and The SEB is primarily responsible for: removal of Board members and the Group Company Secretary, determining the terms of reference of the Board and establishing The management of all the Groups businesses: the overall control framework: Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets Approval of major changes in the rules of the Company pension which have been signed off by the Board: schemes or fund management arrangements: Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive business plan and strategy: schemes and the grant of executive share options: Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : Stock Exchange related issues including the approval of Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system communications to the Stock Exchange: of internal control on a day-to-day basis: and The raising of additional capital and reviewing the Groups Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 company.
capital structure: Approval of all related party transactions: Remuneration Committee At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises Approval of auditors remuneration and recommendations on the D K Nichol Chairman and the two non-executive directors S G Wilson appointment or removal of auditors: and R E Lerwill, all of whom were independent within the fide nition Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness: and set out in the Code.
The Committee met six times during the year and directors attendance for each meeting is shown in the table on page 44.
Other matters including health and safety policy and risk management.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Annual Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings and General Meeting to respond to any questions that might be raised also have access to the advice and services of the Companys advisers.
The Board has established a procedure for directors, if deemed The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys Reviewing and making recommendations on the Companys framework expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the of executive remuneration and cost including all emoluments, pension access that every director has to the Group Company Secretary, who is entitlements and other bene ts of the executive directors and as charged with ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and that appropriate other senior executives.
This includes agreeing the level good corporate governance and compliance is implemented within the of cash bonuses that are paid: Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the Group Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive directors informed and consulted on all issues reserved for it.
remuneration by reference to individual performance and market data: The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Setting and con rming the rewards under the Groups Long-Term Executive is separate and clearly fide ned and is approved by the Board.
Incentive Plan LTIP : and The Chairmans principal responsibilities are to chair the Board and Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and the shareholder meetings and to ensure the effective running of the Board.
The Group Chief Executives principal responsibility is leading the SEB in the day-to-day running of the Groups business.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive meet regularly between meetings.
Synergy Health plc 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee For the appointment of G Hill as Group Finance Director on At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised R E Lerwill 26 April 2010, the Company engaged a rm of external search consultants, Chairman and also the two non-executive directors S G Wilson and to handle the search and recruitment process.
The Nomination Committee D K Nichol, all of whom were independent with the fide nition set out was fully involved with both the recruitment and assessment of potential in the Code.
A shortlist of candidates was put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates were interviewed by the whole The Committee met three times during the year and the directors Nomination Committee.
attendance for each meeting is shown in the table below.
Executive directors are invited to attend meetings and provide reports as and Directors attendance record when considered appropriate.
The Committee meets with external The attendance of directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its auditors without management present at least once during the year.
Committees was as follows: The Committee has direct access to the Groups auditors and liaises with executive management to review the effectiveness of internal controls.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the supply Total number of meetings 10 3 6 2 of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their continued S G Wilson 9 3 5 2 objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satis ed that the provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not impair their R M Steeves 10 independence or objectivity.
The Committee has approved the range of I M Jacques 9 services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc.
These include M L M Smit 9 transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance on projects.
R E Lerwill 9 3 6 1 Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services require prior D K Nichol 9 1 6 2 authority from either the Group Finance Director, the Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee.
The Chairman of the Directors Con ict of Interest Audit Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any There are procedures in place to deal with Directors con ict of interest shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
arising under Section 175 Companies Act 2006 and such procedures have The Audit Committee has the following key duties: operated effectively during the year.
To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior Internal Control to approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the major judgemental areas, signi cant audit adjustments, going concern Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange and those controls.
legal requirements: The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Combined To monitor the Groups system of internal control: Code, the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks including allocation of non-audit fees to ensure that their independence faced by the Group.
and objectivity is maintained: The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure To meet the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues arising to achieve the Groups objectives.
The systems provide reasonable, not from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise: and absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing circumstances.
To review the Groups corporate review procedures and any statement on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board.
The Group does not have an internal audit function, although this is continually under review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The Board Nomination Committee is presently of the view that having reviewed and considered the current The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of control environment it is still adequate given the Groups size and range this report is comprised of S G Wilson Chairman and also comprises of businesses.
the non-executive directors D K Nichol and R E Lerwill.
Only members The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group Finance of the Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may Director and is independent of the business units to ensure objectivity and be invited by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
control when preparing Group financial information.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and Board in relation to potential appointments.
It meets as and when Board commercial support when required.
appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made.
The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures Assessment of business risk to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations and A system of business risk identi cation, assessment and evaluation has appointments to the Board.
The Committee has access to such information been in place during the year within the management process throughout and advice both within the Group and externally, at the cost of the the Group through a formal risk management framework led by the Group Company, as it considers necessary.
This may include the appointment Director of Risk Management.
This is explained in the reports of Principal of external executive search consultants where considered appropriate.
Risks and Uncertainties and Corporate and Social Responsibility on pages 33 and 35 respectively.
The Board regularly reviews strategic risks.
Synergy Health plc 45 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Control environment Relationship with shareholders The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group reporting financial and nonfinancial information to the Board including: Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Company places considerable importance on The fide nition of authorisation limits, both financial and communication with shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major capital projects: Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report & Financial A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are Statements which are available to all shareholders either in paper produced at least twice a year: form or electronically and can be accessed via the Companys website A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational http: www.
The Groups annual and interim results, level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet as well as all announcements issued by the London Stock Exchange are and cash ow analysis which are reported against budget, forecasts published on the Companys website.
and prior year with major variances explained: and The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any through a combination of analysts brie ngs throughout the year but new risks arising and management of existing risks.
particularly at the interim and year-end results stage.
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a detailed Business at the Companys Annual General Meeting will cover the review of financial controls as part of its year-end process which is Annual Report and Financial Statements, re-election of directors, considered by the Board.
The annual review will give a comprehensive the re-appointment of auditors and the authorisation of the directors update on the previous years report and will outline actions taken to to set the auditors fees.
redress any weaknesses in each regional business and across Group Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the functions.
The review will also highlight areas where improved controls Notice of Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as have been implemented and key actions to be addressed in the well as abstentions are counted before the Annual General Meeting coming financial year, which will be monitored by both the Board and the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders and the Audit Committee.
have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
All results, statements and Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the Control procedures Groups website http: www.
Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been developed for each of the Groups businesses.
The implications of change All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they in law and regulations are taken into account within those procedures.
have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will also be available Monitoring process to answer questions.
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls.
The signi cant components are: Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls by the Director of Risk Management, the Groups quality managers, the Head of IT, senior finance managers and reviews by the Group finance team: and Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work of external audit and direct access to Group and operational management.
The Board con rms that it has considered the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial year and up to the date of this report.
