Yule Catto & Co plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance This compliance statement is produced in relation to the Chief Executives, the Finance Director, the Deputy Finance Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which Director, the Company Secretary and the Director of Group was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
Human Resources to assist him in the performance of his duties and which meets once a month.
The Chairman receives Statement of compliance the minutes of the Executive Committee and all directors The Company considers that it has complied throughout the receive a monthly trading summary and commentary from the financial year ended 31 December 2010 with the provisions Finance Director and an update report from the Chief Executive.
set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Board membership and balance Application of the Code The Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director The main principles of Section 1 of the Code were applied are identified on page 22.
The Chairmen and members of the as follows: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are identified below.
The Board considers Dr A A Dobbie and Mr J K Maiden The Board to be independent in accordance with the provisions of the Operation of the Board Code.
Mr G R Menzies was considered to be independent The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board up until his resignation.
which, during 2010, comprised two executive directors and six non-executive directors until 28 June 2010 when During 2010 the Company was in compliance with the Mr G R Menzies resigned and the number of non-executive requirements of Code provision A.
3.2 for smaller companies directors was reduced to five.
The roles of Chairman and to have at least two independent non-executive directors.
Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr P S Wood who Following the re-entry of the Company into the FTSE 250 index heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman on 14 September 2010 the Board is seeking two additional and Mr A M Whitfield who has responsibility for the running of independent non-executive directors in order to achieve a the Companys business as Chief Executive.
The non-executive balance of at least half the Board excluding the Chairman directors all have wide business and boardroom experience comprising independent non-executive directors.
gained in a broad range of business sectors.
The Board held a total of 15 meetings in 2010.
In addition the The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which Chairman held one separate meeting with the non-executive includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the directors without the executive directors being present to strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies appraise the performance of the executive management.
in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment The non-executive directors also met once without the and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject Chairman to appraise his performance.
to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, and disposals and the prosecution, defence and settlement Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during of litigation.
the year and the number of meetings attended by each director.
Where a director is unable to attend a Board or Committee During 2010 the Board held six scheduled meetings to review meeting his views on agenda items are canvassed in advance current and projected performance and to determine strategic of the meeting and incorporated into the discussions.
issues and 9 meetings in connection with the acquisition of PolymerLatex and the associated rights issue.
The directors Number of receive in advance full information on all matters to be meetings held Board Audit Remuneration Nomination discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed review of 15 3 4 3 performance prepared by the Chief Executive.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees Number of which are discussed below.
meetings attended D C Blackwood 15 15 N A N A N A In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board to A G Catto 15 15 N A N A N A visit up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local A A Dobbie 15 15 3 3 4 4 3 3 management.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual non-executive directors on request.
Lee Hau Hian 15 15 N A N A N A J K Maiden 15 15 3 3 4 4 3 3 The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility 1 G R Menzies 5 5 1 1 2 3 0 0 for the development and preparation of the business plan for A M Whitfield 15 15 N A N A 3 3 the Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation P S Wood 15 15 N A N A 3 3 to the Board.
As the senior executive director, the Chief Executive is responsible for all aspects of day-to-day 1.
Resigned on 28 June 2010. operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose other members are the divisional Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 27 Induction and training The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure and in particular private investors, at the Companys new directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on Annual General Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board appointment.
The skills and knowledge of Board members members are in attendance.
In particular, the Chairmen of the are updated by briefings provided by the Companys internal Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees are available resources and materials and seminars offered by external to answer questions.
The Company makes use of its website www.
com Performance evaluation to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and and full year results, Company announcements, share price its directors were carried out in the last year by the following and corporate governance and other investor information.
internal processes: Board committees an assessment of the performance of individual nonThe Board has formally established Audit, Nomination and executive directors is carried out by the Chairman through Remuneration Committees each with their own terms of a rolling programme of one-to-one discussions using reference which set out their respective roles and the authority performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for delegated to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference those discussions.
Every non-executive director is assessed are available upon request from the Company Secretary and can in this way once a year: also be downloaded from the Companys website.
the performance of the executive directors was reviewed in August 2010 at a meeting of the non-executive directors Audit Committee chaired by the Chairman: During 2010 the Audit Committee comprised Mr J K Maiden a meeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of Chairman, Dr A A Dobbie and Mr G R Menzies until 28 June the Chairman chaired by the senior independent director 2010 when Mr Menzies resigned from the Board following was held in November 2010 to evaluate the performance of which the Committee comprised Mr Maiden and Dr Dobbie.
the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Mr Maiden is considered by the Board to have recent and directors: and relevant financial experience for the purposes of Provision the Board and its Committees carry out an annual selfC.
3.1 of the Code due to his current financial position outside assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the the Group.
The Committee has established a detailed remit Chairman of each committee respectively.
The results of regarding the application of financial reporting and internal assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen control principles, which covers: were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board and were shared with and discussed by the Board as a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the whole at its meeting in November 2010.
Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms.
financial reporting judgements contained therein: Those non-executive directors who have served longer than reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the nine years on the Board are subject to annual re-election by Groups internal control and risk management systems.
shareholders with other directors subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Finance Director and senior members of his department attend meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the Shareholder communications Groups interim and final statements prior to their submission Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular to the Board.
The Committee meets periodically with the basis by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and Companys auditors to discuss the adequacy of the Groups meetings take place following the announcement of interim and financial management, internal controls and information full year results and at other times according to circumstances.
The Committees remit also includes the review of the terms of engagement, effectiveness, independence The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication and objectivity of the auditors including the extent of non-audit principles in order to ensure that Board members develop services and fees payable to the auditors which is carried an understanding of the views of the Groups major out and discussed with the auditors on a periodic basis.
These principles require the Chairman to be regard to seeking to ensure the independence and objectivity present with the Chief Executive and the Finance Director at of the auditors, the Audit Committees policy is to avoid the sufficient shareholder presentations and meetings that he fully auditors providing services in areas which may create or be understands the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
perceived to create a conflict of interest.
Accordingly, other than The Chief Executive reports on shareholder relations at each in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical or Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating to assignments are of a minor nature, the auditors are not invited corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman to tender or propose for services of the following nature: with the assistance of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination corporate finance, legal, information technology and systems, and Remuneration Committees.
Written reports on all meetings recruitment or remuneration, accounting, internal audit or between non-executive directors and institutional shareholders control, acquisition due diligence, valuations or appraisals, and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at actuarial or general business consulting.
In addition the auditors the first opportunity following such meetings as is all have been requested not to provide services to executive correspondence with them.
Non-executive directors are required to disclose any relationship they have with the auditors.
Yule Catto & Co plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued The Group does not have an internal audit function.
Internal control The Committee has reviewed this during the year and has The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the concluded that there are in place appropriate procedures Groups system of internal control and sets appropriate for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups policies to ensure that the Code requirements on internal governance, risk management and control processes.
The Board has accepted this recommendation.
The system of internal control deployed within the Group The current auditors were first appointed in 2002 and their is designed to reduce the risks of failure to meet business appointment was reviewed by the Committee in 2009.
Details of objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated.
The internal audit and non-audit fees paid to them in 2010 are set out in note control system adopted can therefore only provide reasonable, 6 on page 49.
Non-audit fees principally relate to miscellaneous not absolute, assurance about meeting such business services rendered in connection with the pending acquisition of objectives or against material mis-statement or loss.
PolymerLatex which were not considered to give rise to any conflict of interest.
The Board accepts the Committees A process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant recommendation that the current auditors be proposed for business risks faced by the Group has been in place since reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness The Committee met formally 3 times during 2010 principally of the relevant processes and information, and has been to discharge its duties in connection with the 2009 report operated throughout 2010 and up to the date of approval and financial statements, the 2010 interim financial statements of the annual report and accounts, and accords with the and the scope and planning of the audit of the 2010 report Turnbull Guidance.
In addition the Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue with the auditors during The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and a the course of the year.
As well as complying with the terms bottom up risk profile is created by evaluating the information of its remit during the year the Committee carried out a review at business, divisional and Group level.
Individual directors of its content.
within Yule Cattos businesses identify and assess key risks associated within their area of responsibility based on formal Nomination Committee management information and interaction with colleagues, During 2010 the Nomination Committee comprised customers, suppliers and other parties.
Mr P S Wood Chairman, Dr A A Dobbie, Mr J K Maiden, Mr G R Menzies and Mr A M Whitfield.
On 28 June 2010 The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and Mr Menzies resigned from the Committee and the Board.
agreed at a board meeting of the subsidiary.
A business risk The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy structure, size and composition of the Board and the making and takes account of key internal and external factors.
Risks of recommendations with regard to any changes: leading the are prioritised using a common risk matrix, which forms the process for Board appointments and nominating candidates for basis of a single corporate risk report that is reviewed and non-executive positions: and considering succession planning.
discussed by the Yule Catto Audit Committee.
The Committee is leading the process seeking two additional The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed at independent non-executive directors referred to above.
a board meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out of The Nomination Committee held 3 meetings during 2010. which a revised report is submitted which identifies changes in the risk environment.
Remuneration Committee All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and The process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board of remuneration are covered in the Remuneration Report, set Directors in March 2010. out on pages 30 to 33.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this process Accountability during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the and financial nature and the most significant of those which financial statements, their report that the business is a going faced the Group in 2010 are reviewed in the reports of the concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as to Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the disclosure of information to the auditors are set out on pages Directors Report.
Statements by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out on pages 35 and 73 Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, respectively.
A report on the approach to internal control is by the nature of the Groups business, always of the utmost set out below.
The directors endeavour to make the annual concern and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on report and financial statements as informative and pages 14 to 21 reviews the Groups performance in this understandable as possible.
Introduction Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Yule Catto & Co plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 The processes which are used by the Board either directly Social and ethical matters or, where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach systems including in relation to the financial reporting process to risk identification, covers areas which encompass social and and the process for preparing consolidated accounts include ethical matters.
the following: The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities a review of the external audit work plan: in which the Groups businesses operate and is supportive of consideration of reports from management and external local initiatives by management.
parties, including the auditors, on the system of internal financial control and any material control weaknesses: The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated a quarterly review of safety, health and environmental with social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide code of performance: business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities, discussion with management of the actions taken on any which is available on the Companys website and upon request possible problem areas for the business identified by Board from the Company Secretary.
The purpose of this code is to members or in the audit report: and ensure that the Groups employees have a clear understanding consideration of a consolidated risk management report of the principles that are important in these areas when setting out the main conclusions from the internal control conducting the Groups business.
The application of the process.
code is explained to senior management at regular intervals and they are charged with its communication throughout In addition, the Board: their businesses supported by internal and external training.
A compliance procedure was initiated in 2007 involving annual receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee certification by the senior management of each operating meetings: company and since 2009 a procedure for maintaining a register considers the role of the Group insurance programme: of, and where appropriate gaining prior approval for, gifts, receives regular written and oral reports from management entertainment and corporate hospitality has been instituted.
on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk A report is made to the Audit Committee annually on the code management matters: and and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness Governance of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Boards approach to governance, training of directors and identification and assessment of risk is set out above.
Environmental, social and governance matters In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers ABI published a revised version of its guidelines on responsible investment disclosure.
These guidelines require statements on the extent to which environmental, social and governance matters are taken into account by the Board and identified, assessed, managed and monitored, particularly in relation to the risks and opportunities they present to the value of the Company.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Environmental matters The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with health and safety protection is central to the Companys business.
A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the annual report for a number of years.
The Corporate Social Responsibility report statement on pages 14 to 21 incorporates the ABI guidelines and includes a report on the initiatives the Company has adopted regarding sustainable development.
