Sir David Lees ceased to be a director on 23 July 2009 Corporate governance and Sir Peter Gershon succeeded him as Chairman of the Company on the same day.
Iain Ferguson ceased to be a Tate & Lyle is committed to high director on 1 October 2009 and Javed Ahmed succeeded him standards of corporate governance which as Chief Executive and as a director of the Company on the same day.
Douglas Hurt and William Camp were appointed the Board believes are central to achieving non-executive directors with effect from 10 March 2010 and 1 May 2010 respectively.
the Groups objectives and maximising With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under shareholder value.
the Code not to be independent, the Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director, As a UK-listed company, Tate & Lyle is required to state Richard Delbridge, who is available to shareholders if they whether it has complied with the provisions in Section 1 of have any issues or concerns, and leads the annual review of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC Combined Code on the Chairmans performance.
The Board has appointed Robert Corporate Governance as updated in 2008 the Code during Walker to succeed Richard Delbridge as Senior Independent the financial year under review.
The Code is available from the Director with effect from the close of the 2010 Annual General FRCs website www.
The Board confirms that the Meeting AGM, when Richard will cease to be a director.
Company has complied with all these provisions during the The non-executive directors have a wide range of skills and financial year ended 31 March 2010. knowledge and combine broad business and commercial This report, together with the directors remuneration report, experience with independent and objective judgement.
provides details of how the Company applies the principles The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive and complies with the provisions of the Code.
directors can be inspected at the Companys registered office and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Board of directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the Chairman and Chief Executive success of the Company and for providing entrepreneurial The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separated leadership within a framework of prudent and effective and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
It writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible sets the Companys objectives and ensures that it has the for the leadership and workings of the Board and ensuring necessary financial resources and people to meet them, its effectiveness, while the Chief Executive is responsible for and reviews management performance.
The Board also sets running the business and implementing strategy and policy.
the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and others are met.
The other significant commitments of the Chairman, Sir Peter Gershon, are set out on page 38.
The Board is The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for its satisfied that they do not restrict him from carrying out his decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually and includes duties as Chairman effectively.
approval of: n Group strategy: Re-election of directors n annual budget and operating plans: The Companys Articles of Association require all directors to seek re-election by shareholders at least once every three n m ajor capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: years.
In addition, any directors appointed by the Board must n f ull-year and half-year results and interim stand for re-election at the first AGM following his or her management statements: appointment.
Any non-executive directors who have served n safety and environmental policies: for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
n Board and Company Secretary appointments: The FRCs review of the Code recognised the importance of n s enior management structure, responsibilities and the Chairman in setting the tone for the rest of the Board.
In succession plans: light of public statements ahead of the publication of the new n treasury policies: UK Corporate Governance Code, it has been decided that the n directors conflicts of interest: Chairman will seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
n system of internal control and risk management: and The directors standing for re-election this year are Liz Airey n dividend policy.
and Evert Henkes, who were last re-elected in 2007, and Other responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, Javed Ahmed, Douglas Hurt and William Camp, who were which operate within defined terms of reference.
Details of appointed since the last AGM.
The Chairman, Sir Peter these are given in the Board Committees section.
Gershon, will also stand for re-election.
The directors standing for re-election, with the exception of Javed Ahmed, do not The directors responsibilities for the preparation of financial have service contracts.
statements are explained on page 57 and their statement on going concern is on page 31.
At no time during the year has any director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of Board balance and independence significance in relation to the Groups business.
A statement At the date of this report, the Board comprises the of directors interests in Company shares is on page 56.
Chairman, who has no executive responsibilities, two executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The names and biographies of the directors are in the Board of directors section.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 41 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
