Governance Corporate governance as a whole.
There is also a formal procedure whereby, in the Board and committee meetings furtherance of their duties, directors can obtain independent There were eight scheduled Board meetings during the professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
year ended 31 March 2010, one of which was held at the Groups offices in Decatur, USA.
One additional meeting was The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover held to consider changes to the composition of the Board.
in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against All directors also met off-site for two days to consider the its directors.
Groups strategy and review key business issues.
Directors attendance at the Board and Committee meetings Directors conflicts of interest that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below.
As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association permit directors to authorise conflicts Audit Nominations Remuneration of interest and the Board has a policy and procedures for Board Committee Committee Committee managing and, where appropriate, authorising, actual or potential conflicts of interest.
Under those procedures, Directors as at 31 March 2010 directors are required to declare all directorships or other Javed Ahmed 5 5 2 2 appointments to organisations that are not part of the Group Liz Airey 9 9 5 5 6 6 8 8 and which could result in actual or potential conflicts of Richard Delbridge 9 9 5 5 6 6 8 8 interest, as well as other situations which could result in a Sir Peter Gershon 9 9 2 2 6 6 8 8 potential conflict of interest.
Evert Henkes 9 9 5 5 6 6 8 8 The Board is required to review directors actual or potential Douglas Hurt 1 1 1 1 1 1 conflicts of interest at least annually.
Directors are required Tim Lodge 8 9 to disclose proposed new appointments to the Chairman Robert Walker 9 9 5 5 6 6 8 8 before taking them on, to ensure that any potential conflicts Dr Barry Zoumas 9 9 4 5 5 6 7 8 of interest can be identified and addressed appropriately.
Any Former directors potential conflicts of interest in relation to proposed directors are considered by the Board prior to their appointment.
Iain Ferguson 3 3 2 2 Sir David Lees 3 3 3 3 3 3 Information, induction and professional William Camp joined the Board on 1 May 2010 and is therefore excluded from development the above analysis.
The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive accurate, In the few instances where a director is unable to attend a timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
meeting, his or her comments on the briefing papers are given in advance to the relevant Chairman.
On appointment to the Board, directors receive a comprehensive induction programme, including site visits A rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board, and meetings with senior management across the Group.
which is reviewed at each Board meeting and updated to New directors receive background reading about the reflect topical matters, has been in operation for a number Group and details of Board procedures and other of years.
Board meetings are structured to allow open governance-related matters.
discussion, and all directors participate in discussing strategy, trading, financial performance and risk management.
Directors receive ongoing training and updates on relevant issues as appropriate, taking into account their individual All substantive agenda items have comprehensive briefing qualifications and experience.
A number of training sessions papers circulated five working days before the meeting.
were held during the year.
The Company Secretary helps Members of executive management attend Board meetings directors undertake any other professional development they and make presentations regularly.
During the year, the Board consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties.
adopted the custom of holding a short discussion between Visits to external events or organisations are also arranged the non-executive directors and the Chairman prior to the for the Board to help non-executive directors in particular to start and immediately upon conclusion of each scheduled gain a deeper insight into the Groups operating environment.
In November 2009, a number of directors attended the Food Ingredients Europe exhibition in Frankfurt, Germany.
Board allocation of time The chart below shows the approximate time the Board has Performance evaluation spent discussing agenda items during the year, separated During the year, the Chairman led an exercise to evaluate into broad categories.
the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
As part of the process, the Chairman held one-to-one Governance 9% meetings with each director and the Company Secretary.
Operations Strategy The main themes and observations on the Boards 14% 36% effectiveness were summarised in a report to the Board.
It concluded that the Board continued to operate in an effective manner but made a number of recommendations for improvements such as the timing and frequency of Finance risk Capital expenditure Board and Committee meetings, further enhancements to 39% and investment the format and content of Board papers and the inclusion 2% in Board meeting agendas of more specialist presentations and training sessions, in particular business-relevant topic areas, notably science and technology and geographicallyBoard support specific subjects.
It was also felt that directors would All directors have access to the advice and services of the benefit from more opportunities to interact, both in Board Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that meetings and on more informal occasions, with a broader Board processes are followed and that applicable rules range of Group employees, particularly those considered to and regulations are complied with.
The appointment and be of high potential.
The Board also agreed to establish a removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee that will be responsible 42 42 T Tate & L ate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 yle Annual Report 2010
