Governance Corporate governance During the year ended 31 March 2010, the risk assessment n t he Chief Executive and Group Finance Director process was reviewed and changes were made to improve the undertake regular financial and operational reviews of process across the Group.
The enhanced process continues the major operating units within the Group: to follow the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the n t he Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director Treadway Commission COSO Enterprise Risk Framework.
submit written reports to each Board meeting, which The COSO framework provides a process to manage the include consideration of changing threats to and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and assurance opportunities for the business.
The standard Board review against material loss or mis-statement.
A series of risk of investments and disposals includes identification of assessments was carried out, culminating in a workshop major risks that could affect the outcome of each project, with the Group Executive Committee at which the specific with a sensitivity analysis: Group risks and the key risks from each business area were n t he Company has procedures for the authorisation and considered.
The output, a Group Risk Assessment, was then project management of capital expenditure and reviewed by the Board.
investment, granting of guarantees, trading and hedging of currencies and commodities and use of treasury Internal control products: and The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the n f ormal annual reports and presentations are received Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its by the Board on certain areas of special risk.
The Board delegates to executive management include insurance, treasury management, commodity the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring both trading, pensions, and safety and environmental issues.
the system and the maintenance of effective internal control The Audit Committee periodically reviews the effectiveness of in each of the Groups businesses.
These systems of internal the system of internal control through reports from the external control are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, auditors and the internal audit function.
The internal audit and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance function follows a planned programme of reviews that are against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of aligned to the risks existing in the Groups businesses.
It has laws or regulations.
the authority to review any relevant aspect of the business.
Executive management is also responsible for establishing The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has and maintaining adequate internal control and risk conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the management systems relating to the financial reporting systems of risk management and internal control during the process.
The systems and controls in place include policies financial year and up to the date of this annual report.
The and procedures that relate to the maintenance of records review, co-ordinated by the internal audit function, includes a that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect Group-wide certification that appropriate internal controls are transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable in place to facilitate the Boards review of effectiveness.
The assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to internal audit function monitors and selectively checks the permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance results of this exercise, ensuring that the representations made with International Financial Reporting Standards: require are consistent with the results of the departments work during representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported the year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs correcting them are also reported.
The results of this exercise of the business and its results for the period: and review and are summarised for the Audit Committee and the Board.
In the reconcile reported data.
event that any significant losses were to be incurred during All the material joint ventures to which the Group is party the year as a result of a failure of controls, a detailed analysis currently follow the Groups formal systems of internal control, would be provided to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The and their internal control procedures are regularly reviewed by Board confirms that no significant weaknesses were identified the internal audit function.
The systems of internal control are in relation to the review conducted during the year and based on a process of identifying, evaluating and managing accordingly no remedial action is required.
risks and include the risk management processes set out above.
These accord with the guidance in the Turnbull Report and were in place throughout the year and up to the date of this annual report.
The key risks that might hinder the achievement of the Groups business objectives are managed, controlled and monitored by the following processes: n t he Groups businesses operate under mandatory written policies and procedural manuals to provide an appropriate control environment.
These set out the Groups commitment to competence, integrity and ethics.
The policies are reviewed by the Board annually and changes are made as appropriate to enhance existing control procedures: n k ey strategic risks are addressed through the Groups process of preparation of plans by each operating unit and the compilation of these risks in the Groups operating plan: n t here is a comprehensive annual planning and financial reporting system comparing results with plan and the previous year on a monthly and cumulative basis.
The process of planning, budgeting and making short-term forecasts, which is subject to an ongoing review, should provide early warning of potential financial risks.
Revised forecasts for the year are produced at least four times a year: 46 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010
