Governance Board of directors Sir Peter Gershon Javed Ahmed Tim Lodge Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Became Chairman on 23 July 2009 Joined the Group as Chief Executive Joined the Group in 1988 and after joining the Board in February on 1 October 2009 from Reckitt joined the Board in December 2008 2009.
Formerly Chief Executive of Benckiser plc.
Started his career as Group Finance Director.
Has held the Office of Government Commerce, with Procter & Gamble and then spent a number of senior operational and Managing Director of Marconi five years with Bain & Co.
Joined financial roles, both in the UK and Electronic Systems and a member Benckiser later Reckitt Benckiser plc in internationally, including Managing of the GEC plc board.
Subsequently held a number Director of Zambia Sugar: Group Chairman of Premier Farnell plc, GHG of senior positions, both in the UK Financial Controller: Finance Director Limited General Healthcare Group and internationally, including Senior of the Food & Industrial Ingredients, and Vertex Data Science Limited: and Vice President, Northern Europe: Europe division: and Director a member of the Advisory Board of the President, North America: Executive of Investor Relations.
He is an UK Defence Academy and the Court Vice President, North America, Associate of the Chartered Institute and Council of Imperial College.
Australia and New Zealand: and of Management Accountants.
Liz Airey William Camp Richard Delbridge Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Joined the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Board in September 2000.
Formerly Finance Director of Monument Worked for 22 years for Archer A Chartered Accountant, he has held Oil and Gas plc 1990-1999.
Currently Daniels Midland Company, before a number of senior operational and Chairman of the JP Morgan European retiring in 2007, and held a variety financial positions including partner Fledgeling Investment Trust PLC of management positions including of Arthur Andersen & Co: Managing and the Unilever UK Pension Fund, Executive Vice President, Asia Strategy: Director of JP Morgans London offices: Senior Independent Director of Executive Vice President, Processing: Director, Group Finance, Midland Jupiter Fund Management plc, and and Senior Vice President, Global Bank plc: Group Finance Director, a non-executive director of Dunedin Oil Seeds, Cocoa and Wheat Milling.
HSBC Holdings plc: and Director and Enterprise Investment Trust PLC.
Based in the USA and currently serves Group Chief Financial Officer, National Aged 51. on the boards of Chiquita Brands Westminster Bank Plc.
Currently a International Inc, Grain Storage Inc non-executive director of Standard and Oasis Foods Company.
