Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board is fully committed to high and transparent standards of governance and corporate responsibility throughout the Group.
Kevin Beeston Chairman Corporate governance statement Chief Executives Review seek to present conveyed to it by the Chairman and or the The Board is fully committed to high a balanced assessment of the Companys Secretary asappropriate.
standards of governance and corporate position and prospects.
The Board discharges its responsibilities responsibility throughout the Group.
The Statement of compliance by providing strategic and entrepreneurial Board supports the principles of corporate For the year ended 31 December leadership of the Company, within a governance contained in the 2008 edition 2010, the Company complied with all framework of prudent and effective of the Combined Code on Corporate the provisions of the Combined Code controls and a culture of openness and Governance which is appended to the including the Principles set out in Section transparency, which enables opportunities Listing Rules of the Financial Services 1, and with the provisions of the Disclosure and risks to be assessed and managed.
It Authority the Combined Code, as and Transparency Rules on Audit sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures supplemented by the Disclosure and Committees and Corporate Governance that the necessary financial and human Transparency Rules, all of which applied Statements DTR 7. resources are in place for the Company throughout 2010.
These, together, set out to meet its objectives and reviews the governance rules which apply to all UK The Board and its Committees management performance.
The Board companies which are listed on the London As at the date of this Report the Board also defines the Companys values and Stock Exchange.
consists of nine Directors, namely: the standards and ensures that its obligations Chairman, three Executive Directors and The Board also supports the new UK to its shareholders and other stakeholders five Independent Non Executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Code the are clearly understood and met.
Their names, responsibilities and other Governance Code which applies to details appear on pages 32 to 33.
As set out in our 2010 Corporate the Company for the 2011 reporting Changes in the Board composition Responsibility Report, the Board is period.
The Governance Code was the since 31 December 2009 are set out committed to providing a safe place in which subject of a thorough review by the on page 51. our employees and sub-contractors can Board in September 2010 in order to work and to high standards of environmental ensure an early understanding of the new The Board met on 13 occasions during management.
The Board receives detailed main Principles and Code Provisions for the year.
Details of the attendance of reports on health, safety and environmental compliance by the Company with effect each Director are set out in the table matters at each Board meeting in respect from 1 January 2011.
A copy of the on page 36. of the Companys operations in the UK, Governance Code is available to download Directors make every effort to attend North America and Spain.
all Board and Committee meetings, as The following documents are available for This Report on Corporate Governance evidenced by the attendance records review on the Companys Web site www.
together with the Remuneration Report over several years.
com InvestorRelations on pages 41 to 50 are intended to a Director is unable to attend a meeting, CorporateGovernance: explain how the Company has applied it is Board policy that the Chairman and the principles of the Combined Code, or the Group Company Secretary will, as Schedule of matters specifically reserved how it proposes to apply the updated soon as possible, brief the Director fully for the decision of the Board: principles set out in the Governance on the business transacted at the meeting Terms of Reference of the Board Code, and to provide an insight into how and on any decisions that have been Committees: Audit, Nomination and the Board and management run the taken.
In addition, the views of the Director Remuneration, which outline their business for the benefit of shareholders.
are sought ahead of the meeting and objectives and responsibilities and The Chairmans Statement and the Group 34 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance which define a programme of activities Board and Committee Structure to support the discharge of those responsibilities: and Board policies covering operational, compliance and stakeholder matters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may take independent Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee professional advice at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board took detailed advice during process against which objective criteria the Group Chief Executive have been the year with regard to the refinancing of recommended by the Nomination reviewed again by the Board.
In line with its existing debt facilities.
This included Committee are used.
Typically the process the Combined Code, the roles of each a 950m Revolving Credit Facility with a of appointment, prior to the decision of position have been clearly defined, set out syndicate of banks: the issue of 250m the Board, will include the engagement of in writing and signed by Kevin Beeston 10.375% Senior Notes due in 2015: and recruitment consultants, interviews with and Pete Redfern.
the agreement of a 100m facility with members of the Board and the taking up the Prudential M & G UK Companies The governance framework, including of detailed references.
This process was, Financing Fund.
These were utilised in delegated authorities, is periodically for example, followed in the appointments repaying certain existing facilities and the reviewed in order to ensure that it remains of Kevin Beeston Chairman and Rob mutual termination of the existing Override appropriate and meets the requirements Rowley Independent Non Executive Agreement, all of which was completed of the Group going forward.
It was also followed with regard in December 2010.
Advice was provided to the appointment of the new Group In order to assist Directors to comply with to the Board by specialist restructuring Finance Director in November 2010, their duty to avoid conflicts or possible advisers N M Rothschild & Sons Limited which entailed as part of the process, the conflicts of interest the Company Rothschild, Lloyds Banking Group interviewing of four external candidates maintains a Register of Potential Conflicts LBG and the Companys legal advisers, and which resulted in the appointment of Interest whereby Directors disclose Slaughter and May.
Representatives of of Ryan Mangold to the post from his Directorships or other interests in outside Rothschild and LBG attended the relevant existing role with the Company as the companies and organisations and any part of meetings of the Board dealing with Group Financial Controller.
The Nomination Committee also guides the The Board undertakes a regular review of Prior to its annual budget review process, Board in regularly assessing whether the each Directors interests, if any, outside of the Board received presentations from the Board has the correct balance of expertise the Company and remains satisfied that Home Builders Federation on a number of and in arranging orderly succession where there are such commitments, they aspects relating to the UK market.
planning for appointments to the Board do not detract from the extent or quality of All businesses and employees are and in respect of senior management time which the Director is able to devote expected to operate at all times to the across the Group.
highest standards of integrity and conduct As set out in the Governance Code, the Whenever any Director considers that in all matters concerning the Group.
Nomination Committee also has due he or she is, or may be, interested in Accordingly there is a Code of Business regard to the benefits of diversity on the any contract or arrangement to which Conduct, which sets out the standard Board including gender, but also takes into the Company is or may be a party, the for individual dealings both internally account other aspects of diversity such as Director gives due notice to the Board andexternally.
in accordance with the Companies Act The Board has been briefed by the Group 2006 and the Companys articles.
In such The work of each of the Board Committees Company Secretary on the implications of cases, unless allowed by the articles, is described in this Report.
the Bribery Act 2010 and is considering any Director with such an interest is not the implementation of further policies The Board has an adopted framework permitted to participate in any discussions and procedures as necessary, in order to of delegated financial, commercial and or decisions relating to the contract comply with this new legislation.
operational authorities, which define the orarrangement.
scope and powers of the Group Chief Board and Committee balance, One of the new Main Principles introduced Executive and of operational management.
independence and effectiveness by the Governance Code and supported It is the Companys policy that Following the appointment of Kevin by the Board is that every Director appointments to the Board are made Beeston as Chairman, the roles and should seek election or re-election, as on merit and the Nomination Committee responsibilities of the Chairman and appropriate, at each years Annual General has a formal, rigorous and transparent 35 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Taylor Wimpey plc Board be seeking election by shareholders at for more than six years or will have done the AGM.
Also on 21 April 2011, after so by the time of the AGM.
This took into more than eight and nine years service account, where applicable, past service on respectively, Andrew Dougal and Katherine the George Wimpey Plc Board prior to the Innes Ker will be standing down from the merger with Taylor Woodrow in July 2007.
Board as Non Executive Directors prior to The Secretary collated all of the responses to the commencement of the AGM and will the questionnaire and produced a summary not be seeking re-election.
in respect of each performance area.
The Board was also pleased to appoint The Chairman and the Secretary then Ryan Mangold to the post of Group reviewed the summaries in respect of Finance Director with effect from 16 each performance area and in respect of Kevin Beeston: Chairman November 2010. each Director except those completed Number of meetings in 2010 13 The Board has reviewed and re-affirmed with regard to the Chairman and formally Members Attendance that it considers each of the Non presented the findings to the Board on a a Executive Directors to be independent in non-attributable basis for discussion.
Kevin Beeston Chairman 6 character and judgement and that there As part of the appraisal process the are no relationships which could affect Pete Redfern Chairman also discussed the evaluation on Group Chief Executive 13 the Directors judgement.
The Chairman, a one-to-one basis with each contributor.
b at the time of his appointment, met the Ryan Mangold Group Finance Director 2 independence criteria as set out in the A number of action points designed to Combined Code.
Sheryl Palmer increase the effectiveness of the Board President & CEO of Taylor Morrison 11 came out of the 2010 performance Performance evaluation of the Board, c Rob Rowley evaluation and have either already been its Committees and other functions Senior Independent Director 13 implemented or will be implemented In line with the Combined Code, a formal Brenda Dean during 2011.
These include: changes and rigorous annual evaluation of the Independent Non Executive Director 13 and improvement in the way that certain performance and effectiveness of the Andrew Dougal operational matters are reported to the Board, its Committees and of individual Independent Non Executive Director 13 Board: additional reporting on specialist Directors was carried out save in respect Katherine Innes Ker topics related to housebuilding: to of Ryan Mangold who was appointed to Independent Non Executive Director 12 maintain an ongoing review of Board the Board on 16 November 2010 and Tony Reading composition: and an increased focus on was subject to a detailed appraisal by Independent Non Executive Director 13 succession planning across the Group.
the Nomination Committee as part of the d Norman Askew These actions points will be kept under selection process.
e Chris Rickard Following the appointment of Kevin In addition, as part of the 2010 evaluation Former Director 10 Beeston as Chairman in July 2010, it was agreed that the 2011 Board f David Williams the Board determined that the 2010 performance evaluation should be carried Former Director 1 evaluation would not be carried out by out by a third party facilitator.
This will be a Appointed 01 07 2010 a third party facilitator.
The evaluation consistent with the Governance Code b Appointed 16 11 2010 process was therefore carried out by c Appointed 01 01 2010 which requires the evaluation to take the Chairman and the Group Company d Resigned 30 06 2010 place once every three years with effect e Resigned 16 11 2010 Secretary.
f Resigned 31 03 2010 bespoke questionnaire which was sent by the Group Company Secretary to all As part of the 2010 process, the Non Directors for completion.
At the request Executive Directors, led by the Senior Meeting.
Accordingly, at the Annual of the Chairman, for the first time, Independent Director, undertook the General Meeting to be held on 21 April the Secretary also participated in the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
2011 the AGM and at each subsequent performance evaluation and completed a The evaluation was based on the AGM, every Director, irrespective of questionnaire in full.
non-attributable summary prepared by the the date of his or her appointment and Secretary on the feedback received from the length of his or her service on the The questionnaire focused on the the Non Executive Directors, Executive Board, will be submitted for election or performance of the Board, each of the Directors and the Secretary.
The summary re-election, as appropriate.
Details of the three Board Committees, each Director was reviewed by the Non Executive resolutions to be proposed in this respect by way of self assessment and also by Directors in the absence of the Chairman, and supporting biographical details of the way of a confidential evaluation by the following which Rob Rowley in his capacity Directors appear in the Notice of Meeting Chairman and finally the performance of as the Senior Independent Director on page 104. the Chairman.
provided feedback direct to theChairman.
The Company was pleased to announce In accordance with the Combined Code In line with the Combined Code, the on 3 February 2011 that Kate Barker CBE the evaluation also specifically included a Chairman holds meetings with the Non will be joining the Board with effect from particularly rigorous assessment of each Executive Directors without the Executive 21 April 2011.
Kate Barker will therefore Director who has served on the Board Directors present.
The Senior Independent 36 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Director also holds and leads meetings with Committee during 2011 and will be Audit Committee only the Non Executive Directors present.
Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board As mentioned above, a particularly rigorous External auditors: Deloitte LLP was evaluation was undertaken with regard to selected as external auditors to the Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, Katherine Company as a result of a comprehensive Innes Ker and Tony Reading as he will formal competitive tender process have completed six years service by the conducted in 2007 and will be proposed time of the AGM although he had not for re-appointment as the Companys done so as at the time of the performance auditors at the Annual General Meeting.
Following their evaluation, Their performance is kept under the Board was entirely satisfied with the regular review by the Board and the respective performance and contribution of AuditCommittee.
each Non Executive Director in addition to The Deloitte partner responsible for the Rob Rowley, Chairman their ongoing independence of character Companys external audit has acted in Number of meetings in 2010 4 and judgement.
this capacity for two years, which is within Members Attendance The Board changes that have occurred or the five year maximum period set out in been announced during 2010 and 2011 to the Smith Guidance, and there are no Rob Rowley appointed 01 01 2010 4 date, are set out below: contractual restrictions on the Companys Andrew Dougal 4 selection of its external auditors.
Tony Reading 3 Rob Rowley was appointed as an David Williams resigned 31 03 2010 1 Independent Non Executive Director Information and professional on 1 January 2010 and subsequently development as the Senior Independent Director on The Company has procedures whereby Main Objective 1 April 2010: newly appointed Directors including To assist the Board in fulfilling its Non Executive Directors receive a corporate governance responsibilities David Williams resigned as a Director formal induction.
This includes training relating to the Groups internal control and as the Senior Independent Director and continuing familiarisation with the framework, risk management, financial on 31 March 2010: Companys business, operations and reporting practices and external Norman Askew resigned as a Director systems, the principles underlying the auditprocess.
and as Chairman on 30 June 2010: discharge of their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to the housing sector.
Kevin Beeston was appointed as a action points from previous meetings have Director and to the role of Chairman on All Directors visit Group operations on a been implemented and to prepare the 1 July 2010: regular basis, engaging with employees agenda and matters to be covered at the at all levels in order to foster and maintain next and at futureBoard and Committee Chris Rickard resigned as a Director an understanding of the business.
and Group Finance Director on visits are arranged each year to operations 16 November 2010: Board Committees and their work in both the UK and elsewhere within the Audit Committee and auditors Ryan Mangold was appointed as a Group.
In 2010, in addition to individual The Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
Director and Group Finance Director on visits, the entire Board visited operations All members of the Committee are 16 November 2010: in California and also the Taylor Wimpey Independent Non Executive Directors as Midlands region during which site visits, Andrew Dougal and Katherine Innes Ker required by the Combined Code.
The regional presentations and formal Board will stand down as Independent Non Board has determined that Rob Rowley, meetings took place.
Executive Directors with effect from 21 who currently chairs the Audit Committee The Group Company Secretary and April 2011: at both Capital Shopping Centres Group General Counsel acts as Secretary to plc formerly Liberty International plc and Kate Barker will join the Board as an the Board and its Committees and he moneysupermarket.
com group plc, has Independent Non Executive Director attends all meetings.
It is Board policy recent and relevant financial experience.
with effect from 21 April 2011. that wherever possible a formal agenda The Chairman of the Company and and written reports are issued to Directors The Board considers that its Directors other Non Executive Directors, the in respect of all Board and Committee possess an appropriate balance of skills Group Chief Executive, Group Finance meetings one week prior to the meeting and experience for the requirements of the Director, Head of Internal Audit and other in order to allow sufficient time for detailed business.
The Board and its Committees senior executives attend meetings of the review and consideration beforehand.
operate within a framework of scheduled Committee by invitation.
Deloitte LLP Formal minutes are prepared in respect core meetings.
Additional meetings were is also invited to attend meetings of the of all Board and Committee meetings held during the latter part of the year to Audit Committee.
The Committee also and are then circulated and submitted for oversee the refinancing of the Companys meets privately with representatives from approval at the next meeting.
Deloitte during at least two Committee meetings per annum which normally The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Internal Audit: An independent formal take place around the Full and Half Year Secretary meet sufficiently in advance of evaluation of the Internal Audit function financial statements, in order to discuss each Board meeting in order to ensure will be carried out on behalf of the Audit 37 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued any matters which the auditors may wish The Board is satisfied that this policy is Nomination Committee to raise without any Executive Directors conducive to the maintenance of auditor Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board beingpresent.
During the year the external auditors undertook During the year the Audit Committee non-audit work primarily related to key met on four occasions.
Details of the project work.
attendance of each Director are set out in the table on page 36.
The meetings were The Audit Committee is satisfied that the typically also attended by the other Non carrying out of this work would not impair Executive Directors.
the independence of the external auditors and recognises that from time to time, The Committees remit includes reviewing there is a clear commercial advantage the internal control framework, the internal based on cost and timetable requirements audit process, the financial reporting in using the Companysauditors.
practices, the external audit process and Kevin Beeston, Chairman recommending to the Board whether Corporate Responsibility Committee Number of meetings in 2010 3 to re-appoint the external auditors.
During the year, the Board took the view Members Attendance It ensures that the Board regularly that corporate responsibility had been assesses business risks including their sufficiently integrated into day to day Kevin Beeston Appointed 01 07 2010 2 management and mitigation.
In doing so, management culture and processes and Brenda Dean 3 the Committee places reliance on regular would be more effectively managed at Andrew Dougal 3 reports from executive management, the operational level with direct reporting Katherine Innes Ker 3 Internal Audit and the external auditors.
The Group Chief Tony Reading 3 In monitoring the financial reporting Executive and the President and CEO of Pete Redfern 3 practices the Audit Committee reviewed North America have retained the ultimate Rob Rowley Appointed 01 01 2010 3 accounting policies, areas of judgement, responsibility for corporate responsibility.
Norman Askew Resigned 30 06 2010 1 the going concern assumption and As demonstrated by the achievements compliance with accounting standards and initiatives set out in the Companys and the requirements of the Combined 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report, Main Objective Code.
During the year the Committee corporate responsibility has of course To ensure there shall be a formal, reviewed, prior to publication, the Full retained the same level of priority as rigorous and transparent process for and Half Year financial statements and before.
The 2010 Corporate Responsibility the appointment of new Directors to other statements affecting the Group Report is available in electronic form the Board, its Committees and to other concerning price sensitive information on the Companys Web site at senior roles and to ensure effective asnecessary.
succession planning processes across the Group.
Appointment of the auditors for Nomination Committee non-audit services The Committee is chaired by the The Audit Committee has approved a Chairman of the Board and is composed Remuneration Committee and policy on whether to employ the external of a majority of Non Executive Directors remuneration auditors to provide services other than as required by the Combined Code.
Its The Boards policy and approach to the audit services, which is to require a members are set out in the table above.
setting of remuneration for Directors and competitive tender except in narrowly As set out earlier in this Report, the senior executives and the activities of the defined circumstances where it is Committee has procedures in place with Remuneration Committee are described considered that based on confidentiality, regard to maintaining a formal, rigorous in detail in the Directors Remuneration past knowledge and other commercial and transparent process for Board Report on pages 41 to 50.
The Committee reasons, there is an advantage in using appointments, ensuring that appointments is constituted in accordance with the a single tender procurement procedure.
to the Board are made on merit and Combined Code and its members are set assessed against objective criteria, guiding out on page 39.
The Committee has determined that the the Board in regularly assessing whether following assignments should not be The levels of remuneration are considered there is a correct balance of expertise and undertaken by the auditors: by the Committee to be sufficient to in arranging the orderly succession for attract, retain and motivate Directors bookkeeping or other services related appointments to the Board and in respect and other senior management of the to the accounting records or financial of senior management across the Group.
necessary calibre required to run the statements: A description of how appointments are Company successfully, without being typically made to the Board is set out internal audit outsourcing services: excessive.
A significant proportion on page 35. of Directors remuneration is linked the provision of advice on large The Committee met on three occasions to rewarding corporate and personal Information Technology systems: during the year and details of the performance and there is linkage to services connected with valuation, attendance of each Director are set out effective risk management.
There is litigation support, legal, recruitment in the table above.
a formal and transparent procedure or remuneration.
for developing policy on executive remuneration and agreeing the 38 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance for the Groups system of internal control that was in place with certain lenders, Remuneration Committee and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such were closely monitored by the Board and Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board a system is designed to manage rather audited by Internal Audit.
In December than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 2010 the Company substantially mitigated business objectives, and can only provide these risks by reaching an agreement reasonable and not absolute assurance with its creditors to exit the Override against material misstatement or loss.
In Agreement and through raising new debt compliance with the Combined Code, the finance as set out earlier in this report.
Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of The Board oversees the risk and control the Groups processes of risk management framework of the Group and the Group and internal control and the progress made Chief Executive is responsible for in embedding these processes into the implementing any necessary improvements business.
The Boards monitoring covers all with the support of the Group Executive controls, including financial, operational and Tony Reading, Chairman Committee.
The Executive Committee compliance controls and risk management.
Number of meetings in 2010 4 comprises the Executive Directors of the This process is based principally on Company, the Group Company Secretary Members Attendance reviewing reports from management to and other designated senior management.
consider whether significant risks are Tony Reading 4 The Board ensures that the Company has correctly identified, evaluated, managed Kevin Beeston Appointed 01 07 2010 4 in place effective systems to manage and and controlled as part of the process of Brenda Dean 4 mitigate significant risks.
At its December managing the Groups operations and Katherine Innes Ker 3 2010 meeting the Board, following a whether any significant weaknesses are Rob Rowley Appointed 01 01 2010 4 detailed review undertaken by the Group promptly remedied or indicate a need for Executive Committee of operations, David Williams Resigned 31 03 2010 0 more extensivemonitoring.
companies and major departments, Key elements of the systems of internal completed its annual assessment for the Main Objective control and risk management are year to 31 December 2010 of the key risks To establish and maintain formal and detailedbelow: affecting the Group.
The Audit Committee transparent procedures for developing also assists the Board in discharging its a Group-level review is carried out to policy on executive remuneration review of risk.
The key risks were identified identify the major risks facing the Group and for agreeing the remuneration and agreed by the Board together with and to develop and implement appropriate packages of individual Directors and processes in place for their elimination or initiatives to manage those risks: senior executives and to monitor and mitigation and actions required to reduce report on them.
strategic risk reviews are carried out in the likelihood or impact of each risk to the each of the operating divisions to identify Company and the Group.
The Board has business risk, evaluate existing controls noted the requirement to both identify and and develop strategies to manage the monitor risks as set out in the Governance risks that remain: Code.
Consequently, the Board will review remuneration packages of individual risk at least twice a year and the Group Directors, none of whom is involved in key operational and financial risks are Executive Committee will review risk at deciding his or her ownremuneration.
identified and assessed at the operating leastquarterly.
process level, while strategic risks are The Committee is chaired by Tony A more detailed review of the principal identified as a part of the business Reading and consists of four Independent risks and uncertainties facing the Group planning process.
These risk reviews Non Executive Directors and also the during the year and in the future, is set take account of the significance of Chairman of the Board.
During the year out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on environmental, social and governance the Remuneration Committee met on pages 12 and 13. matters to the business of the Company.
Such risks are identified and assessed Management Internal control for potential effect on the Companys The Group Chief Executive has The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of short and long term value, as well responsibility for preparing and reviewing the Combined Code and has recognised as opportunities that may arise to strategic plans for the Group and the the greater emphasis on risk management enhancevalue.
These are as set out in the Governance Code.
It Throughout 2010 and into 2011, the subject to formal approval by the Board.
has established a continuous process for Audit Committee continued to assess the Budgets are re-examined in comparison identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups risk management and internal with business forecasts throughout the significant risks the Group faces.
It regularly control framework, and reviewed business year to ensure they are sufficiently robust reviews its application of the Revised change issues and Internal Audit activities to reflect the possible impact of changing Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control to across the Group.
ensure the process of internal control, The Group Chief Executive and the Board which has been in place throughout 2010, During 2010, the enhanced reporting, conduct regular reviews of actual results is in accordance with Internal Control: the approval and control processes and future projections with comparison Revised Guidance for Directors on the introduced to monitor and ensure against budget and prior year, together Combined Code.
The Board is responsible compliance with the Override Agreement with various treasury reports.
Enhanced 39 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Governance Corporate Governance Report continued cash and debt reporting systems reviewed by the Audit Committee: and the the Companys largest institutional continue to assist in managing the Group performance of the Internal Audit team is shareholders.
This was then followed up to be externally appraised.
by a series of meetings which were used through the current market difficulties to discuss governance, strategy and and in meeting its refinancing obligations.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct market relatedissues.
Disputes that may give rise to significant access to the Chairman of the Audit litigation or contractual claims are Committee, the Chairman of the Board and All Directors receive formal reports and monitored at each meeting of the Board the Group Chief Executive.
A database of briefings during the year about the with specific updates on any material audit recommendations and improvement Companys investor relations programme developments or new matters.
Follow-up and receive detailed feedback through processes ensure that such improvements surveys, direct contact and other means, The Group has clearly defined policies, are implemented in a timely manner.
through which they are able to develop processes and procedures governing all The annual employee performance an understanding of the views of major areas of the business which will continue appraisal process is objective-based, shareholders about the Company.
to be reviewed and refined in order to with individual objectives cascaded down meet the requirements of the business The Board encourages all shareholders to from the appropriate business objectives.
participate in the Annual General Meeting, Reviews identify training needs to support Defined authority limits continue to be which is attended by all Directors.
closely monitored in response to prevailing Shareholders attention is drawn to the market conditions.
These ensured we Whistleblowing Notice of Meeting on page 104 which sets remained in compliance with the terms of The Groups whistleblowing policy out details of the rights of shareholders the Override Agreement, now superseded, is supported by a clear process that in connection with the notice of, and and the financial covenants contained in includes an externally facilitated hotline participation in, general meetings of our new debt facilities.
Any investment, through which any person, including theCompany.
acquisition or disposal of land requires employees of the Company, may, in Information about the Company, including detailed appraisal and is subject to confidence, raise concerns about possible full year and half year results and other approval by the Board or the Group Chief improprieties in financial reporting, other major announcements, and additional Executive, depending on the value and operational matters or inappropriate information about shareholder facilities, nature of the investment or contract.
personal behaviours in the work place.
All is published on the Companys Web site whistleblowing cases are investigated by There is a clearly identifiable organisational www.
com the Head of Internal Audit, Group Human structure and a framework of delegated Resources Director and or the Group Debt refinancing and going concern authority approved by the Board within Company Secretary.
Whistleblowing The consolidated financial statements which individual responsibilities of senior incidents and their outcome are reported have been prepared on a going concern executives of Group companies are to the Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is basis and on a historical cost basis except identified and can be monitored.
These a standing item on each Audit Committee as otherwise stated in the Notes to the activities are reinforced through process agenda which allows the Committee to Consolidated Financial Statements on compliance and other audits conducted regularly review the adequacy of the policy pages 61 to 93. by Internal Audit.
in line with its requirements to do so under The Taylor Wimpey plc Groups the The Internal Audit function reviews the the Combined Code.
Group business performance and effectiveness and efficiency of the systems Relations with shareholders position, along with the significant factors of internal control in place to safeguard the The Board actively seeks and encourages that are likely to influence its future assets, to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or engagement with major institutional activities are set out in the Group Chief mitigate risks and to monitor the activities shareholders and other stakeholders and Executives Review on pages 8 to 13. of the Group in accomplishing established supports the new initiatives set out in the objectives.
Internal Audit reports are The ability of the Group to continue as a Governance Code and its supporting provided to the Executive Directors, going concern is reliant upon the continued Stewardship Code which aim to foster a indicating improvements proposed or availability of external debt financing.
The more pro-active governance role by major made where appropriate, and summaries Group renegotiated and signed its new shareholders.
The Board has put in place of these reports are provided to the Board financing agreements on 14 December arrangements designed to facilitate contact and the Audit Committee.
The Group has met all interest and about business, governance, remuneration Executive, Group Executive Committee other payment obligations on time from debt and other issues.
This provides the members and senior management resources available to it, and after reviewing opportunity for meetings with the Chairman, consider the reviews on a regular forecasts for a period of at least 12 months the Senior Independent Director as well as basis and are responsible for ensuring from the date of signing these financial the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance that improvements are made, where statements, the Directors are satisfied that, Director and other executives in order required.
A number of new initiatives have whilst the economic and market conditions to establish a mutual understanding of been introduced to ensure the Companys continue to be challenging and not without objectives.
The Company also operates a Internal Audit function meets current best risk, the refinancing package is sufficiently structured programme of investor relations, practice.
An Internal Audit Charter codifies robust as to adequacy of both facility and based on formal announcements and the aims, modus operandi and outputs covenant headroom to enable the Group to publications covering the full year and half of internal auditing: a rolling schedule of operate within its terms for at least the next year results.
business improvements identified during 12 months.
Accordingly the consolidated internal audits is monitored against action Following his appointment as Chairman financial statements have been prepared on taken by the businesses, with progress in July 2010, Kevin Beeston wrote to a going concern basis.
40 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
