39 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report During the year, the Board comprised the Introduction Code compliance non-executive Chairman, two executive Directors The Board confirms that the Company has and three non-executive Directors.
The Board complied throughout the year with all the relevant considers that two of the non-executive Directors, The Board of Directors is responsible recommendations of Section 1 of the Combined Simon Batey and John OReilly, are independent Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 forthe strategic direction and and free from any business or other relationship the Combined Code in all respects other than management and control of the which could materially interfere with the exercise as set out below in the Areas of non-compliance Groups activities.
It sets the of their independent judgement.
In addition, the section at the end of this report.
A summary of tone, aswell as the structure, of Chairman was considered independent at the the ways in which the Company has complied governance for the Group asawhole.
date of his appointment as Chairman although follows in this report.
A copy of the Combined for the purposes of the Combined Code and The Board considers that best practice in Code can be found at the Financial Reporting UKGovernance Code he is excluded from the corporate governance is an essential part of Councils website www.
calculation of the number of independent maximising and sustaining the success of any The Company has also begun to comply with the non-executive Directors in the Company.
Accordingly, the Board is additional provisions of the new UK Corporate committed to achieving the highest standards The Board has a senior independent Director, Governance Code the UK Governance Code of corporate governance as an integral part Simon Batey, whose role includes being available which replaces the Combined Code, although of pursuing the Groups strategic objectives.
toshareholders if required as an alternative way didnot yet apply to the Company during the year.
Appropriate controls and processes sit hand ofcommunicating with the Company.
The Board intends that the Company will fully in hand with the entrepreneurial drive and comply with the UK Governance Code in 2011.
Biographies of each member of the Board are ambition in the Group.
Together, they enable Inrelation to those areas of non-compliance setout on pages 34 and 35 and their terms of the success of the Group over the long as withthe Combined Code noted at the end of this appointment are available for inspection at the well as short term.
report, this will be achieved as soon as possible Companys registered office.
This is not merely to follow the letter of any during the year.
A copy of the UK Governance particular code and then report on having Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Re-election of Directors done so, important though that is.
It is to Councils website www.
Under the UK Governance Code, at every AGM, instil in the Group the high standards with allDirectors retire from office and may then which the Board believes its business should Composition of the Board beproposed for re-election.
Any term of a be conducted.
The members of the Board are drawn from non-executive Director beyond six years will different backgrounds and with the range of besubject to particularly rigorous review by Neither is this a process which the Board knowledge, experience and skill sets necessary theBoard.
The retirement and proposals for willever consider fully complete.
It is one, and appropriate toset and monitor implementation re-election of Directors at this yearsAGM like pursuit of the Groups strategic of the Groups strategy.
The Directors contribute arecommented upon further in theDirectors objectives in general, which will always be their wide-ranging business and financial experience Report on page 37. ongoing, with evolving requirements, and to the Boards decision-making process.
with further improvements to be made as The Chairman, John Hughes, holds a number of theGroup and the environment in which The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance non-executive directorships as set out on page 34. itoperates develop.
Director are primarily responsible for overseeing The Board considers that the time commitment the operation of the Groups business on a required by his other roles does not impact on This report summarises the work of the day-to-day basis.
The Board is supported by a hisChairmanship of the Group.
Neither of the Board in this area.
senior management team, with the qualifications executive Directors has held any non-executive and experience necessary for the running of the directorships of a FTSE100 company or the Group under the direction of the Board.
The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance as an integral part of pursuing the Groups Full biographies of all Board members can be found on strategic objectives.
Untitled-1 4 25 02 2011 10:24:16 40 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Functioning of the Board Board meetings The Board meets regularly, approximately every two months, and also by telephone when required at other times for particular matters.
Board meetings, together with relevant committee meetings, generally take place over the course ofone day.
In addition to the executive Directors, other members of senior management frequently attend Board meetings.
Each year, the Board meets over two consecutive days to enable a full review of the Groups strategy to take place.
As well as management, external participants, who may include specialist professionals in particular aspects of the Groups industry, customers and suppliers, present at these meetings.
TheGroups strategy is kept under review at other meetings as appropriate.
The Board generally meets at the Groups offices in London or at offices elsewhere in the Group, for example at a location at which a new build project isunderway.
In 2010, itmetin Paris and Manchester, as well as in London.
Matters handled by the Board There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
This includes approval ofGroup strategy, budgets and business plans, ofAnnualand Half Year Reports and Interim Management Statements, and of significant financing and capital expenditure plans.
The Board also  of the Groups strategy and its operational and financialperformance.
These matters are regularly reviewed and discussed by the Board and its committees at their meetings at which comprehensive reports on the Groups strategic plans, operations, financial results and forecast updates, and of its risks and internal controls, are presented.
Between Board meetings, there isregular communication among executive and non-executive Directors to ensure that all Directors are fully up to date on all significant aspects of the Groups operations and their development.
This includes review of a comprehensive monthly financial reporting pack and reports on significant specific operational and other matters asthey arise.
If considered appropriate, specific Board meetings, generally held by telephone, are arranged to review thesein more detail.
Roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are split and a formal statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and ChiefExecutive Officer has been adopted by the Board.
The Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive Officer has primary responsibility for the management of the Groups day-to-day operations, authority for which isdelegated to management subject to defined authority limits.
The non-executive Directors meet at least annually without the executive Directors present and, separately, also without the Chairman present to appraisethe Chairmans performance.
Training induction of Directors The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all the Directors continually update their skills and their knowledge and familiarity with the Group in order tofulfil their role on the Board and the Board Committees.
Training in matters relevant to their role on the Board is available to all Directors.
The Chairman and Committee Chairmen attend seminars relevant to their roles as such.
Technical updates dealing with changes in legislation and regulation relevant tothe Groups business are provided regularly to the Directors by the Group Finance Director, the Company Secretary and the Groups external auditors.
Training requirements are reviewed as part of the annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
New Directors are provided with an induction in order to introduce them to the operations and management of the business.
Data centre visits are also arranged as appropriate so that Directors may familiarise themselves with the Groups operations.
Compliance and advice All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are properly complied with, and thatdiscussions and decisions are appropriately recorded.
The Company Secretary is also responsible under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring goodinformation flow within the Board and its Committees, and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on governance matters.
Directors may seekindependent professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors should they consider itappropriateto do so.
Board performance The Boards performance is evaluated annually.
The process and results of the review carried out in 2010 are commented upon under the Board performance review section later in this report on page 43.
Untitled-1 5 25 02 2011 10:24:16 41 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Management of conflicts of interest Attendance at meetings Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act places upon a Director a statutory duty to avoid Directors attendance at Board, Committee and general meetings convened in the year, along asituation where he has, or could have, a direct withthe number of meetings that they were invited to attend, in whole or in part, is set out below: orindirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
Occasionally Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee though, circumstances can arise in which such a conflict of interest could occur.
The Companys Number of meetings 12 3 2 2 Articles of Association empower the Directors, aspermitted by Section 175 of the Act, to authorise Attended Attended Attended Attended such a situation.
Any such authorisation can be effective only if the conflicted Director is not Executive Directors counted in the quorum for the meeting at which Michael Tobin 12 12 2 2 the matter is considered and any vote ofsuch Brian McArthur-Muscroft 12 12 3 3 Director on any such authorisation is ignored.
Thenon-conflicted Directors may impose Non-executive Directors conditions or limitations on any such authorisation.
John Hughes 11 12 2 2 2 2 Simon Batey 12 12 3 3 2 2 2 2 The Board maintains under review at every Robert Morse 11 12 3 3 mainBoard meeting the potential for conflicts John OReilly 11 12 3 3 2 2 2 2 ofinterests of Directors in the Company.
This includes all Directors being asked to notify the All Directors other than Robert Morse attended the Companys 2010 AGM.
Company of any conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest that may arise, before they soarise.
On being advised of such aconflict or potential conflict, the procedure of the Board isto consider whether to authorise this conflict inaccordance with the Companys Articles and, Audit Committee internal audit reports and annual plan: ifitis to be authorised, to consider whether to the Groups whistleblowing policy: impose any conditions on such authorisation.
Chaired by Simon Batey Such conditions could limit the distribution, the Committees own effectiveness: Other members Robert Morse oruse of, information to, or by, a conflicted John OReilly the performance and independence Director or involve the Director absenting himself oftheexternal auditors, concluding in from discussions on the matter affected by the arecommendation to the Board on the conflict of interest.
The Board reviews the register The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board re-appointment of the external auditors of any actual and potential conflicts of interests with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation byshareholders at the AGM: and ateach of its main scheduled meetings to consider to internal and external audits.
It also assists the whether any changes may be appropriate to this.
Board inoverseeing controls and risk management the audit and non-audit fees charged by the in the Group which the Board views as critical to external auditors and the formal engagement Transactions with Directors and with parties related the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives terms entered into with the external auditors.
to Directors require the prior consideration by, over the long as well as short term.
The Committees and approval of, the other Directors.
The Audit Committee generally meets three times work includes reviewing and monitoring: per year, as it did in 2010.
It meets towards the Board Committees the statutory audit of the Annual Report and end of the calendar year at which time it reviews The Board has established three Committees to Financial Statements and review of the Half plans forthe preparation of the annual accounts deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Year Report, including consideration of the for the year and for the audit of these.
It meets appropriateness ofaccounting policies, early in the calendar year, around one week Audit material assumptions and estimates adopted before announcement of the Groups annual Remuneration by management: results, and considers the reports of the Group Nominations Finance Director and the external auditors on developments in accounting and reporting The terms ofreference of these Committees are those results and the Annual Report and Financial requirements and how these may affect available on the Groups website.
The Company Statements prior to making a recommendation theGroup: Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the on these to the Board.
It also meets in the week committees and theproceedings of their reports on the management ofrisk and leading up to announcement of the Groups meetings are generally reported to all Directors.
internal controls, and the Groups public halfyear results and considers the reports of statements on these matters: theGroup Finance Director and external auditors Untitled-1 6 25 02 2011 10:24:16 42 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued its recommendation to the Board for the Board Committees continued Remuneration Committee appointment of the new non-executive Director.
Audit Committee continued on these before making a recommendation on the Chaired by John OReilly Following the departure of two non-independent results to the Board.
At each meeting it reviews Other members Simon Batey non-executive Directors in 2009, the Board risk management and other matters relating determined it to be appropriate for an additional John Hughes tointernal control, and a report from the independent non-executive Director to be internalauditor.
For this recruitment, The Remuneration Committee determines the aformal, rigorous and transparent process has The Chairman of the Committee has recent and levels of remuneration for each of the executive been undertaken, led by the Nominations relevant financial experience having formerly served Directors and monitors the structure and levels Committee, with the assistance of a specialist as a Finance Director, and now as Chairman of the of the remuneration of other members of external search consultancy.
Audit Committee, of other companies.
The Committee sets the Finance Director and external auditors generally The first stage of this process was to select the remuneration of the executive Directors within also attend each meeting of the Committee as do specialist external search firm to be engaged.
astructure and at levels considered appropriate the internal auditor and senior members of the Three leading firms were invited to tender for this for the Group to meet its strategic objectives, Groups financial management.
At least annually, role and each gave detailed presentations in this including operating within its governance control the Committee meets with the internal auditor, regard to the Nominations Committee.
Following and risk management procedures.
This Committee andwith the external auditors, in the absence consideration of these presentations, on the also considers and approves the Directors ofmanagement.
recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Remuneration Report to be submitted for approval Heidrick & Struggles were appointed to assist the The Audit Committee has implemented procedures by the members of the Company at the AGM.
This Company in the recruitment process.
relating to the provision of non-audit services by the report which includes further details of the work Companys external auditors.
These procedures of the Committee, is contained on pages 46to 51.
With the assistance of Heidrick & Struggles, require non-audit work and the fees involved to be theNominations Committee then evaluated The Remuneration Committee met formally twice approved in advance by the Audit Committee, or thebalance of skills, knowledge, experience during 2010.
Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive by the Chairman of the Committee on its behalf andcharacter of each of the current Directors.
Officer, from time to time is invited to attend inroutine matters, after taking account of any Thiswas to assist in preparation of the description meetings of the Committee, save where the potential risks of any current or future conflicts ofthe role and capabilities required from the Committee isdealing with matters relating to ofinterest.
During the year, the only significant newappointment.
It was also to ensure that the hisremuneration.
The Groups Head of Human non-audit work performed by the external individual to be recruited would be complementary Resources is also invited to attend meetings auditors related to assurance services in respect to theexisting Board.
With this information, the ofthe Committee periodically.
ofdue diligence assignments and the review Committee determined the type of profile to ofthe Groups Half Year report 183,000 : Nominations Committee seek from appointment of the new Director, andadvisory work inrespect of taxation matters andagreed this with the Board as a whole.
Chaired by John Hughes Heidrick & Struggles then prepared a list of potential Other members Simon Batey The rotation of external audit personnel accords candidates from which the Committee selected with their professional guidelines.
Whilst the John OReilly asignificant number for its members to interview.
Company does not consider it necessary to Aspart of the interview process, the Committee havea policy forrotation of external audit firms, sought to establish the suitability of the candidate Having the appropriate composition of the Board, consideration is periodically given to placing for appointment in terms of skills, knowledge, and succession planning in the Group are considered future audits out to tender, as was done in 2008. experience and character.
It also confirmed that by the Board to be of key importance to the Group The Company has a policy whereby, before any the candidate could give the time and commitment in achieving and sustaining success in its strategic former employee of the external auditors may necessary to fulfil their duties, in terms of availability objectives over the long term.
The Nominations beemployed by the Group, careful consideration both to prepare for and attend meetings, and to Committee assists the Board in determining the must be given as to whether the independence discuss matters at other times.
composition and make-up of the Board.
It also ofthe auditors will be adversely affected, and assists the Board in succession planning in the Group Following this initial interview process, and approval of the Audit Committee is required.
at both the Board and senior management levels.
consideration of the results by the Committee, The Audit Committee reviews the performance ashort-list of candidates was recommended to This Committee met formally twice during of the external auditors at least annually at the the Board and meetings then held between those 2010and communicated less formally between conclusion of the annual audit.
In addition, candidates and other Directors.
As at the date meetings as appropriate.
Michael Tobin, as Chief asrecommended by the Financial Reporting ofthis report, the Board is in the final stages of Executive Officer, is periodically invited to attend Council, this year the Committee reviewed the making an appointment ofthe new independent meetings of the Committee, although this would results of the Audit Inspection Units routine non-executive Director.
This appointment will not be the case where it was dealing with matters annual review of the work of PwC as auditors bring the Board into full compliance, and enable relating to him or with the appointment of his ingeneral, focusing particularly on those aspects the Audit and Remuneration Committees also successor: and was not the case during the of that general review with relevance to the Group.
tobe brought into full compliance, with the yearwhen the Committee was determining recommendations of the UK Governance Code.
Untitled-1 7 25 02 2011 10:24:17 43 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements From this, conclusions were drawn and, where Board performance review The Board is appropriate, actions determined.
Where actions Critical to the success of the Board achieving its were determined to be appropriate, these have aims is the effectiveness with which it operates.
committed to an been or are being implemented as agreed by The Board is committed to an evaluation of theBoard.
They included the identification of itsperformance being carried out every year.
evaluation of its long-term strategic matters to be given greater Externally facilitated reviews of its performance consideration by the Board in future, and are carried out every three years.
In other years, performance being recommendations in relation to the profile the Board carries out an internally facilitated ofthenew independent non-executive Director selfassessment incorporating learnings and best carried out every which is reported on further in the report on the practice derived from externally facilitated reviews.
work of the Nominations Committee on page 42. year.
Externally In 2008 and 2009, the Board and its committees Relations with shareholders carried out reviews of their performance and facilitated reviews The Board seeks to establish a mutual understanding effectiveness assisted by the Company Secretary.
on the strategic objectives fortheGroup with In 2010, the review was externally facilitated by of its performance itsshareholders.
Heidrick & Struggles, who were selected for this role following meetings held by the Chairman The Chief Executive Officer and Group are carried out every with, and evaluation of, anumber of professional FinanceDirector meet or speak with investor providers in the area.
representatives regularly during the year to threeyears.
discuss strategic and other issues within the The review was conducted in three stages.
constraints required by the Disclosure and Thefirst stage was the completion by each Transparency Rules of the UKListing Authority.
Director ofa detailed questionnaire on the On the announcement of theGroups annual operation, performance and activities of the andhalf year results, the ChiefExecutive Officer Board, on the performance of each of the other and Group Finance Director give presentations individual Directors, and on the Director himself.
toinstitutional investors and analysts and The questionnaire was different to that used holdaseries ofone-to-one briefings with key inthe prior year to ensure that the results were shareholders.
Copies of the presentations obtained from a different perspective.
In particular, areavailable on the Groups website.
it enabled a wider assessment of the roles and performance of individual Directors.
In addition, The Board receives regular reports on meetings several non-Director members of senior with shareholders in order to ensure that members management were asked to complete a of the Board, and in particular the non-executive questionnaire on their perceptions of the Board.
Directors, develop an understanding of the views The individual answers to the questionnaires by of major shareholders about the Company.
each participant were maintained as confidential Thesenior independent Director is available by Heidrick & Struggles to ensurethat these were toshareholders as an alternative channel of given on an open, frank and impartial basis.
In addition, eachDirector met with at least one institutional The second stage was an interview between each investor in the Company during the year.
Director and Heidrick & Struggles to discuss the Directors answers to that questionnaire and clarify The Group also encourages dialogue with all andexpand on these as appropriate.
These shareholders at the AGM, at which a presentation interviews also allowed for wider discussion of on the Groups business is given, as well as during matters with individual Directors including any the year.
TheChairman, executive Directors and with particular relevance to that Director that Committee Chairmen attend the AGM to deal with hadbeen raised by others.
any matters raised by shareholders and all other Directors are encouraged to, and indeed generally The third stage was a detailed analysis and report do, attend as well.
The proxy votes of shareholders prepared by Heidrick & Struggles of the results ofthe for the AGM are tabulated independently by the questionnaires and the interview process.
This was registrars to the Company and made available presented to the Board as a whole in person onthe Companys website shortly after bythe team responsible at Heidrick & Struggles conclusion of the AGM.
and the results discussed with them aswell asamongst the Board.
Untitled-1 8 25 02 2011 10:24:17 44 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control Framework and procedures The Board receives The Directors are responsible for establishing, The key elements of the Groups procedures and maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of internal financial control framework, are set out regular reports the Groups systems of internal control.
systems are designed to manage, rather than Through the processes outlined, areas for on meetings with eliminate, the risks faced by the business and improvement in internal controls are identified, canprovide only reasonable and not absolute action plans to deliver such improvement shareholders in assurance against material misstatement or aredevised anddelivery is then monitored by loss, including those resulting from fraud.
management and the Board or its Audit Committee.
order to ensure that The Board does not believe that there have been The Board considers that none of the areas for any instances of non-compliance with laws and improvement identifiedconstitute a significant members of the regulations or any fraud or suspected fraud which failing or weakness.
could result in a material misstatement of the Board develop an As part of the ongoing process of improvement, financial statements and its assessment in this existing policies and procedures are reviewed respect has been shared with the auditors.
understanding of andnew policies and procedures are put in place.
These systems of internal control are regularly During 2010, the Groups anti-bribery policy was the views of major reviewed by the Board.
The key elements of reviewed and amended to bring it into line with theexisting systems of internal control, which the new Bribery Act in the UK as well as other shareholders about operated throughout the year and up to the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
As well dateof approval of this 2010 Annual Report as requiring compliance with the relevant laws, the Company.
andFinancial Statements, are set out below.
this policy requires all those within the Group to act with integrity in the conduct of the Groups Open culture business at all times.
The updated policy is being The Group operates a risk-aware culture and an rolled out across the Group.
Other policies open style of communication, which allows for reviewed include those in relation to the prompt early identification of risks and issues, leading identification, proper control and, if appropriate, toappropriate action being taken to eliminate announcement of information that may be inside orminimise the impact on the business.
information under the rules of the Financial Ongoing process of risk identification, Service Authority in the UK.
evaluation and management The review of existing, together with the development There is an ongoing process for the identification, of new policies and procedures, is something that the evaluation and management of the most significant Board considers will always be an ongoing process risks that the Group faces.
A detailed discussion in order that these are up to date, tailored to the of these processes and risks can be found in the Groups requirements and following best practice.
The Board considers that the information that Annual assessment of the effectiveness itreceives is sufficient to enable it to review the of systems of internal control effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
The Board and Audit Committee review at least annually a report from senior management in order to assist the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control.
This includes review of the adequacy andeffectiveness of the Groups internal auditarrangements.
Untitled-1 9 25 02 2011 10:24:17 45 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Review of the Year Governance Financial Statements Framework and procedures Financial reporting Areas of non-compliance The Group also has specific systems of internal One of the current non-executive Directors, control to govern the financial reporting process Robert Morse is not considered independent The key elements of the Groups and preparation of the Annual Report and Financial because he isassociated with one of the Groups procedures and internal financial Statements.
Thesesystems include clear policies significant shareholder groups.
As such, during and procedures for ensuring that the Groups the year, the Company did not comply fully with control framework: financial reporting processes and the preparation the Combined Code provisions in respect of the close involvement of the executive of the consolidated accounts comply with all thecomposition of the Board and its Audit and Directors, including regular meetings with relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
3.2, the Senior Management Team to review all These are detailed in the Groups Policy and B.
In 2010, the interest of that operational aspects of the business: Procedure Manual.
shareholder group reduced from 16.52% to 5.41%of the share capital of the Company.
clearly defined responsibilities and limits The processes and procedures in relation to the TheBoard considers that the service on the of authority, including a schedule of production of the Groups financial statements Board of Mr Morse provides a valuable resource matters which are required to be brought are embedded within the Groups internal monthly to the Company particularly because he has to the Board for decision: financialreporting systems.
The Groups consolidated several years experience in the Companys management accounts are prepared monthly in a comprehensive Group-wide system industry both in Europe, and in the USwhere accordance with the measurement principles offinancial reporting, budgeting and cash heisbased.
In addition, the primary statements are forecasting and control through which presented in a manner consistent with those in Following the planned appointment of an financial accounts are prepared and the Annual Report.
On a quarterly basis, the full additional independent non-executive Director submitted to the Board monthly: and IFRS financialstatement disclosures are included tothe Board commented on under the work of profit and cash flow forecasts are within the internal reporting.
The monthly the Nominations Committee, and the subsequent prepared at least annually, and revised consolidated management accounts are subject appointment of that Director to the Audit and when necessary, to monitor actual to management review and analysis.
Remuneration Committees, the Company will be against expected performance: in full compliance with the UK Governance Code.
Whistleblowing regular meetings of the Board and Audit The Group has adopted a whistleblowing policy On behalf of the Board Committee at which financial information and operates a process whereby employees may, is reviewed and business risks are in confidence, report any incidences or concerns identified and monitored: over any possible wrongdoing in financial reporting the Groups internal auditor reviews specific or other matters.
This system operated across all areas of the Groups operations selected the countries in which the Group is present and John Hughes for such review in consultation with the was operational for the whole of the financial year.
Formal reports of the No incidences or concerns were raised by results of these reviews are presented to employees during 2010. and considered by the Audit Committee.
The main aims of the internal audit arrangements are toensure that: Simon Batey an effective system of internal control Senior Independent Director is being maintained at a country and 8 February 2011 Group level: the financial information produced by the countries is accurate, relevant and is produced on a timely basis: the Groups assets are safeguarded: statutory and legal requirements are being met: controls are in place to mitigate known risks: and the countries are consistently applying the Groups policies and procedures.
