Corporate governance Directors report on corporate governance its agenda, while the Chief Executive has executive responsibilities for the Tesco PLC is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance operations and results of the Group and making proposals to the Board as we recognise that strong governance is crucial in helping the business for the strategic development of the Group.
to deliver its strategy, generating shareholder value and safeguarding our shareholders long-term interests.
Senior Independent Director The Board has appointed one Non-executive Director, Rodney Chase, Below Board level, the company fosters a strong culture of good governance, to act as Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director including maintaining high ethical standards and strong personal integrity.
is available to shareholders to assist in resolving concerns, should the This is formalised in the Group Code of Business Conduct which sets out alternative channels be inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director our expectations of employees clearly.
All businesses within the Group are is also required to lead the discussion in relation to assessing the required to monitor their compliance with the Group governance framework effectiveness of the Chairmans performance.
and this information is reviewed at Board level.
Non-executive Directors Compliance with the Combined Code The Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and experience, The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance in the as well as independent judgement on strategy, risk and performance to form of principles and provisions on how companies should be directed the Company.
and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation The independence of each Non-executive Director is assessed at least to Section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied the principles annually.
The Combined Code suggests that a Non-executive Director and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the should be independent in character and judgement and be free from financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear companies must provide an explanation for this.
to affect, the Directors judgement.
The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in full with the Combined The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are Code principles of Corporate Governance and Code of Best Practice for the available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
whole of the year ended 27 February 2010, with the exception of provision A.
3.2, in respect of which the company was not in compliance for part of Board responsibilities the year.
The Board held 8 meetings in the year.
It also held a two day off-site meeting which considered the Groups strategy.
The Board has set out a Provision A.
3.2 requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the clear Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board Decision in order to ensure Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the its overall control of the Groups affairs.
These include the approval of: Board to be independent.
The Board recognises the importance of a the Companys strategic and operating plans: balanced board with an appropriate level of independence.
Due to unexpected changes to the Board in the previous year, with the resignation annual and interim financial statements: of Carolyn McCall and Mervyn Davies as Non-executive Directors, the major acquisitions and disposals: Board was not in balance at the beginning of the year.
authority levels for expenditure: At that stage, Ken Hannas impending appointment to the Board had treasury policies: already been announced, and he joined the Board with effect from 1 April 2009, at which point the Board became balanced and once again risk management and internal control systems: fully compliant with provision A.
3.2. group governance policies: and Further information on the Combined Code can be found atwww.
succession planning for senior executives.
Board composition and independence The Board delegates to management the detailed planning and As at 27 February 2010, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised eight Executive implementation of these matters in accordance with appropriate risk Directors, eight independent Non-executive Directors and David Reid, parameters.
The Board monitors compliance with policy and achievement Non-executive Chairman.
Rodney Chase is Deputy Chairman and Senior against objectives by holding management accountable for its activities Independent Director.
The size of the Board is appropriate given the through regular updates.
In addition, each substantial business within the diverse markets the business operates in and the breadth of operations Group is required to present to the Board on a regular basis, giving it the and services offered in each market.
opportunity to understand and explore issues as deemed necessary.
The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors ensure During the year ended 27 February 2010, the Boards scheduled activities that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
included the following: approving interim and full year results: Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 36 and 37 of this report.
r eceiving reports from the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee Changes to the Board since 1 March 2009 are as follows: and Nominations Committee: r eceiving reports from other key committees within the Group, including Ken Hanna Non-executive Director Appointed 1 April 2009 the Compliance Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee and Finance Committee: Election of Directors r eceiving reports on governance issues affecting the group, including All Directors have to submit themselves for re-election at least every three stakeholder management: years if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
The Companys Articles of Association require all new r eceiving regular reports on risk management within the Group, Directors to be submitted for election by shareholders in their first year including the Key Risk Register: following appointment.
discuss ing and approving Group strategy: The Chairman r eceiving a report on the effectiveness of the Board: Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility exist and operate r eceiving reports from key businesses within the Group: and effectively for the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman has primary responsibility for leading the Board and setting r eceiving regular reports on the financial position of the Group and the various businesses within the Group.
46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and Board processes may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense The Board governs through a number of Board Committees in particular, in conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover and the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to which certain indemnities for its Directors and officers.
responsibilities and duties are delegated.
These Committees are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and Attendance at meetings act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
The Board scheduled 8 meetings in the year ended 27 February 2010, The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees and any and ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with matters between issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board as appropriate.
It is expected that all Directors attend A summary of the operations of these Committees is set out below.
The Board and relevant Committee meetings, unless they are prevented from effectiveness of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees is doing so by prior commitments, and that all Directors will attend the AGM.
underpinned by their Non-executive Director membership, which provides Where Directors are unable to attend meetings due to conflicts in their independent insight on governance matters.
A copy of each Committees schedules, they receive the papers scheduled for discussion in the relevant Terms of Reference is available on our website www.
meetings, giving them the opportunity to relay any comments to the The Board is serviced by the Company Secretary, who reports to the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Directors leave the meeting where Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
matters relating to them, or which may constitute a conflict of interest to them, are being discussed.
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year.
Full Board Audit Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Non-Executive Directors David Reid Chairman 8 8 1 1 Charles Allen CBE 8 8 7 7 1 1 Patrick Cescau 8 8 4 4 7 7 1 1 Rodney Chase CBE Senior Independent Director 8 8 4 4 7 7 1 1 Karen Cook 8 8 6 7 1 1 Harald Einsmann 8 8 6 7 1 1 1 Ken Hanna appointed 1.4.
09 6 8 3 4 6 7 1 1 Ken Hydon 8 8 4 4 1 1 Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 8 8 1 1 Executive Directors Sir Terry Leahy 8 8 1 1 Richard Brasher 8 8 Philip Clarke 8 8 Andrew Higginson 8 8 Tim Mason 8 8 Laurie McIlwee 8 8 Lucy Neville-Rolfe CMG 8 8 David Potts 8 8 1 Ken Hanna was unable to attend two Board meetings, one Audit Committee meeting and one Remuneration Committee meeting due to prior commitments arranged before he commenced his role at Tesco.
PLC Board Main Committees Monitoring Committees Audit Committee Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Committee Nominations Committee Compliance Committee Finance Committee Operational Committees Joint Venture Boards Subsidiary Boards Reports are discussed by the PLC Board on a regular basis.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 47 Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive attends as appropriate.
Members: Representatives of the Groups Personnel and Finance functions attend David Reid Chairman as appropriate to provide support and the Company Secretary also attends Charles Allen in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Patrick Cescau Rodney Chase The Committee met seven times this year.
Each year it conducts a review Karen Cook of the Committees own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference.
The Dr Harald Einsmann responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee and an explanation of Ken Hanna from 1 April 2009 how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Combined Ken Hydon Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 66.
Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker Sir Terry Leahy Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC Remuneration Committee are available at www.
com boardprocess The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and the re-election David Reid Audit Committee and succession of Directors, as well as making Chairman recommendations for the membership of the Members all independent Non-executive Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Directors : Ken Hydon Chairman The Committee is chaired by David Reid and the Company Secretary Patrick Cescau also attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Rodney Chase Where matters discussed relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Ken Hanna from 1 April 2009 Director chairs the meeting.
Other regular attendees at the invitation The Nominations Committee met formally once in the year to discuss of the Committee include: the ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
There were also a number Chairman of the Board of ad hoc meetings during the year.
As well as reviewing the performance Finance Director and his representatives and development of the Executive Directors and the senior executive levels Head of Internal Audit below the Board, the Committee also regularly considers: Corporate and Legal Affairs Director Relevant Executive Directors the Board structure, size, and composition: External Auditors the skills, experience and knowledge of the Board and identifies Ken Hydon candidates to fill Board vacancies and enhance its capability: The Company Secretary also attends in his Chairman capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
succession planning for directors and other senior executives in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities The Combined Code requires the Audit Committee to include at least one facing the company, and what skills and expertise are therefore needed member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee on the Board in the future: Chairman fulfils this requirement, and all other Committee members have the time commitment required from Non-executive Directors: an appropriate understanding of financial matters.
the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are: non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: and to review the financial statements: strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Group and the to review the Groups internal control and risk assurance processes: market in which it operates.
to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports to the Committee and their independence, which includes an assessment Individual members of the Committee were involved during the year of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work: and in interviewing candidates for Board and senior executive positions.
to review the programme of Internal Audit.
Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC Nominations Committee are available at www.
com boardprocess The Committee met formally four times this year.
There was also an additional ad hoc meeting.
While fulfilling the above responsibilities, Remuneration Committee during the year the Committee received presentations from significant businesses within the Group, as well as on fraud, bribery and corruption, Members all independent Non-executive business continuity, IT controls and governance and whistleblowing.
Each Directors : year the Committee conducts a review of its own effectiveness and its Charles Allen Chairman Terms of Reference.
The Committee also had regular private meetings Patrick Cescau with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit during the year.
Rodney Chase Karen Cook The need for training is kept under review and the annual agenda Dr Harald Einsmann ensures time is dedicated to technical updates which are generally Ken Hanna from 1 April 2009 provided by external experts.
This year training was provided on accounting and reporting developments under IFRS and IAS and The Remuneration Committees role is to governance developments proposed by the FRC.
With respect to Tesco determine and recommend to the Board the Bank, training was provided on regulatory, accounting, governance remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Training is also provided to meet It also monitors the levels and structure of specific individual needs of Committee members.
remuneration for senior management and seeks to ensure that the remuneration Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC Audit Committee are available arrangements are designed to attract, retain Charles Allen at www.
com boardprocess and motivate the Executive Directors needed Chairman to run the Company successfully.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance Management of the Group Executive Committee Board performance evaluation The Board delegates responsibility for formulating and implementing the The performance of the Board is a fundamental component of the Groups Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the Executive success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance.
During the year Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises the ended 27 February 2010, the Board assessed its own performance.
This eight Executive Directors and a senior executive, Colin Holmes, who was assessment was co-ordinated and directed by the Chairman with the appointed as a member of the Committee on 7 September 2009.
The support of the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and the Company Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas except those Secretary carried out in-depth interviews with each Director.
The results of set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board Decision and meets the evaluation were considered by the Board, and confirmed the strength formally on a regular basis.
A number of other senior executives also of the strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, a sound attend the Committee and their valuable operational experience helps governance framework and practices compliant with the Combined Code.
Their attendance facilitates the communication of the Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
The Company The Chief Executive reviews the performance of each Executive Director.
Secretary attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Chairman reviews the performance of the Chief Executive and each Non-executive Director.
During the year, the Chairman met several times The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group strategy with the Non-executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, and policy and for monitoring the performance and compliance of the to discuss Board issues and how to build the best possible team.
The Senior business, drawing on the work of relevant committees, and reporting on Independent Director met with the Non-executive Directors, in the absence these matters in full to the Board.
of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans performance.
The Executive Committee has set up further committees including the Risk management and internal controls Finance, Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Committees which are Accountabilities described in more detail below and operational groups which have Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk responsibility for implementing the key elements of the Groups strategic management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial plan and managing its UK and international operations, joint ventures, spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
property acquisitions, finance, funding and people matters.
These The Board has overall responsibility for risk management and internal committees and groups have as members an appropriate mixture of control within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
Executive Executive Directors and senior management from relevant functions.
management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the necessary control systems.
The role of Internal Audit is to monitor the Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interest overall internal control systems and report on their effectiveness to The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation where Executive management, as well as to the Audit Committee, in order a Director has a conflict of interest.
As part of these procedures members to facilitate its review of the systems.
of the Board are required to: Background consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: The Group has a five-year rolling business plan to support the delivery of consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their its strategy of long-term growth and returns for shareholders.
Every business duties under Companies Act 2006: unit and support function derives its objectives from the five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers and staff by way of personal objectives.
keep records and Board minutes as to authorisation granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals given: and Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring our people have regularly review conflict authorisation.
a good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a structured internal Training and development communications programme that provides employees with a clear All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored definition of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities and the to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as individual designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups line managers and other employees.
This ensures that all our people culture and operations.
The programme has evolved taking into account understand what is expected of them and that decision-making takes feedback from new directors, and will usually include an overview of the place at the appropriate level.
We recognise that our people may face business model and Board processes, meetings with the Executive team ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide clear and senior managers, site visits at home and abroad and briefings on guidance based on the Tesco Values.
The Values set out the standards key issues including social, ethical and environmental SEE issues.
that we wish to uphold in how we treat people.
These are supported Directors also receive an induction to those Board Committees he or she by the Group Code of Business Conduct which was launched this year, will serve on.
replacing the Code of Ethics, and offers guidance on relationships between the Group and its employees, suppliers and contractors.
The need for Director training is regularly assessed by the Board and regular training sessions are arranged to provide an opportunity for We operate a balanced scorecard approach that is known within the upskilling of the Directors on a variety of areas relevant to the Groups Group as our Steering Wheel.
This unites the Groups resources around business, including SEE issues.
In the last year the Board received training our customers, people, operations, community and finance.
The Steering focusing, inter alia, on the regulatory and governance issues associated Wheel operates at all levels throughout the Group.
It enables the business with operating a financial services business, following the acquisition of to be operated and monitored on a balanced basis with due regard for Tesco Bank in the previous year.
The Board usually meets overseas once each year to facilitate the Directors Risk management understanding of the Groups international operations.
In February 2010, The Group maintains a Key Risk Register.
The Register contains the key the Board visited China and Korea to view first hand the progress and risks faced by the Group including their impact and likelihood, as well as direction of the business in these markets.
In July 2009, the Company the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks.
The held its Annual General Meeting in Scotland and the Board took the content of the Register is determined through regular discussions with opportunity to visit some strategically significant parts of the business senior management and reviewed by the Executive Committee and the full in this region.
A balanced approach allows the degree of controllability to be taken into account when we consider the effectiveness of mitigation, recognising that some necessary activities carry inherent risk which may be outside Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 49 Corporate governance continued the Groups control.
Where our risk management process identifies Internal Audit opportunities to improve the business these are built into our future plans.
The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business operations Our key risks are summarised on pages 41 to 44 of the Business Review.
It undertakes a programme to address internal control and risk management processes with particular reference The risk management process is cascaded through the Group with to the Turnbull Guidance.
It operates a risk-based methodology, ensuring operating subsidiary boards maintaining their own risk registers and that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular examination.
Its assessing their own control systems.
The same process also applies responsibilities include maintaining the Key Risk Register, reviewing and functionally in those parts of the Group requiring greater oversight.
For reporting on the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal example, the Audit Committees Terms of Reference require it to oversee control with the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and ultimately the Finance Risk Register.
The Board assesses significant Social, Ethical to the Board.
Internal Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems and Environmental SEE risks to the Groups short-term and long-term across the Group through risk committees in Asia and Europe and audit value, and incorporates SEE risks on the Key Risk Register where they are committees in a number of our international businesses and joint ventures.
The Head of Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
We recognise the value of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment External audit Disclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk assessment  LLP, who have been the Companys external procedures, the Board takes account of the significance of SEE matters auditor for a number of years, contributes a further independent to the business of the Group.
We recognise that a number of investors perspective on certain aspects of our internal financial control systems and other stakeholders take a keen interest in how companies manage arising from its work, and reports to both the Board and the Audit SEE matters and so we report more detail on our SEE policies and Committee.
Our policy in relation to the reappointment of the external approach to managing material risks arising from SEE matters and the auditors is to consider their engagement and independence annually.
KPIs we use both on our website www.
com cr2010 and in our The Committee has satisfied itself that  LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2010.
To provide further assurance, is independent and there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its the Groups Corporate Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular objectivity.
One such measure is the non-audit services policy that sets basis by Internal Audit.
out criteria for employing external auditors and identifies areas where it is inappropriate for  LLP to work.
Non-audit services Internal controls work carried out by  LLP is predominantly the The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and review of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts, transaction work for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system.
We have a Group-wide and corporate tax services, where their services are considered to be the process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities assigned to most appropriate.
 LLP also follows its own each level of management and the controls which are required to be ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to ensure its operated and monitored.
The CEOs of subsidiary businesses are required to certify by way of Finance Committee annual governance returns that appropriate governance and compliance Membership of the Finance Committee includes Non-executive Directors processes have been adopted.
For certain joint ventures, the Board places with relevant financial expertise, Executive Directors and members of reliance upon the internal control systems operating within our partners senior management.
The Committee is chaired by Sir Terry Leahy, CEO.
infrastructures and the obligations upon partners boards relating to the The Committee usually meets twice a year and its role is to review and effectiveness of their own systems.
agree the Finance Plan on an annual basis, review reports of the Treasury and Tax functions and to review and approve Treasury limits and Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of delegations.
failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Compliance Committee Membership of the Compliance Committee includes three Executive The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and is Directors and members of senior management.
The Committee is chaired satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
by Lucy Neville-Rolfe, Corporate and Legal Affairs Director.
The Committee normally meets six times a year and its remit is to ensure that the Group Monitoring complies with all necessary laws and regulations and other compliance The Board oversees the monitoring system and has set specific policies in all of its operations world-wide.
The Committee has established responsibilities for itself and the various committees as set out below.
Both a schedule for the regular review of operational activities and legal Internal Audit and our external auditors play key roles in the monitoring exposure.
Each business in the Group has a Compliance Committee process, as do several other committees including the Finance Committee, designed to ensure compliance with both local and Group policies, and Compliance Committee and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
each Compliance Committee reports to the Group Compliance Committee The Minutes of the Audit Committee and the various other committees at least once a year.
Finance, Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Committees are distributed to the Board and each Committee submits a report for formal Corporate Responsibility Committee discussion at least once a year.
These processes provide assurance that The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by the Corporate the Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance with approved and Legal Affairs Director, Lucy Neville-Rolfe and membership is made financial and operational policies.
up of senior executives from across the Group.
It meets at least four times a year to support, develop and monitor policies on SEE issues and to Audit Committee review threats and opportunities for the Group.
Progress in developing The Audit Committee reports to the Board each year on its review of the Community initiatives is monitored by the use of relevant KPIs for the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the financial year and the businesses within the Group.
The Board formally discusses the work of period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Throughout the Committee on a regular basis, including progress in implementing the year the Committee receives regular reports from the external auditors our Community Plan.
covering topics such as quality of earnings and technical accounting developments.
The Committee also receives updates from Internal Audit The Corporate and Legal Affairs department and the Trading Law and and has dialogue with senior managers on their control responsibilities.
It Technical department provide assurance and advice on legal compliance, should be understood that such systems are designed to provide reasonable, health and safety, and SEE matters.
These functions report on their work but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
on a regular basis and escalate matters as appropriate.
50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance Whistleblowing It is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a confidential with the Group than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure Protector Line service accessible to concerned employees where they that any price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, can report, anonymously if necessary, on issues of malpractice within institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with applicable the business.
Such issues include illegal and unethical behaviour such as legal and regulatory requirements.
All major presentations to institutional fraud, dishonesty and any practices that endanger our staff, customers shareholders are made available to private shareholders through the or the environment.
Complaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated.
Where Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report and appropriate, matters will be escalated to the Director of Group Security Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary Financial for further action.
Statements, either in paper or electronic form.
These reports, together with publicly-made trading statements, are available on the Groups Management website, www.
com annualreport2010 In our fast moving business, trading is tracked on a daily and weekly basis, financial performance is reviewed weekly and monthly and the Steering The Tesco PLC AGM Wheel is reviewed quarterly.
Steering Wheels are operated in business The Annual General Meeting offers the opportunity for the Board to units across the Group and reports are prepared of performance against communicate directly to shareholders.
Our last Annual General Meeting target KPIs covering the five segments of the Steering Wheel Customer, in July 2009 was held in Glasgow.
The 2010 AGM will be held in London Operations, Community, People and Finance on a quarterly basis, at 10.30am on Friday 2 July.
The choice of location is based on our policy enabling management to measure performance.
All major initiatives of widening the opportunity for our shareholders around the country to require business cases normally covering a minimum period of five years.
attend the AGM, by moving to a different location in the UK each year.
Post-investment appraisals, carried out by management, determine the reasons for any significant variance from expected performance.
The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
To encourage shareholder participation, we Relations with stakeholders offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with stakeholders to proxy appointment service.
At our last Annual General Meeting, all ensure we understand what is important to them and allow ourselves the resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll.
This follows best practice opportunity to present our position.
Engagement helps us identify new guidelines and allows the Company to count all votes, not just those risks and opportunities to ensure that our long-term strategy is sustainable.
of shareholders attending the meeting.
The Chairman announces In some instances we find that working with stakeholders in partnership the provisional voting results at the meeting, and the final results are can help deliver shared goals.
We might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder announced the same day through the Regulatory News Services and concerns all the time but through engagement we can do our best to the Tesco PLC website.
We know that customers need to be able to trust our business and they will only trust us if they believe that we are By Order of the Board engaging on an appropriate basis with our stakeholders.
Mr Jonathan Lloyd Company Secretary Our programme of engaging with stakeholders including customers, 5 May 2010 staff, suppliers, investors, government, regulators, non-governmental organisations and others, is set out in more detail in our Corporate Tesco PLC Responsibility Report 2010 and on our website www.
Registered Number: 445790 Registered in England and Wales Shareholder engagement Registered Office: Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with shareholders Hertfordshire EN8 9SL through proactively organising meetings and presentations as well as VAT Registration Number: GB 220 4302 3 responding to a wide range of enquiries.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues from strategy to corporate governance and SEE issues.
We recognise the importance of communicating appropriately any significant Company developments.
During the year, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director met with most of our leading shareholders to discuss issues relating to the Board, strategy and governance matters, as well as new developments within the business.
The Chairmans meetings with major shareholders took place independently from the Executive team.
In addition to this, our Investor Relations team engage with shareholders on a regular basis, and on a wide range of issues.
The Corporate Secretariat team also organise regular meetings, on both a one-to-one and group basis, with socially responsible investors SRIs to discuss the work the Group is doing on corporate responsibility and governance-related issues.
These meetings are attended as appropriate by Directors and other members of senior management.
An Investor Relations report is produced for the Board periodically.
This report summarises feedback from shareholders particularly in terms of our management and strategy, and ensures the Board has a balanced perspective on the views of our major shareholders.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 51
