Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Directors Report Corporate governance report This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the Code and the extent to which the Company complied with the Dear Shareholder provisions of Section 1 of the Code in the year to 30 September 2010.
The only area of non compliance with the Codes provisions during the financial year was in respect of the period up to 4 August 2010 when the Board had not appointed a Senior Independent Director.
This is explained in the relevant section on page 51.
The Company will report against the new Code in the Annual Report The Board of Directors of Thomas Cook Group plc recognises & Accounts 2011. the importance of applying the highest standards of corporate THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS governance.
This enables effective and ef cient decision making An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group and has and gives a structural aid for the Directors to discharge their duty a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule and the to promote thesuccess of the Company for the bene t of terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, and its shareholders.
Health, Safety & Environmental Committees are available on request The Board is committed to the principles of corporate and on the Companys website atwww.
The governance in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code the new Code.
These are also available on the Companys website.
In the first full year of leading a fully independent company, the Board has embraced the standards expected of a UK listed plc.
The Board is speci cally responsible for: During the year, the Board has made considerable progress development and approval of the Groups strategy and its against the targets that it set itself as a result of the 2009 Board budgetary and business plans: evaluation.
In the year ahead, the Board will track progress approval of signi cant investments and capital expenditure: against the actions that it has set following the output from our approval of annual and half-year results and interim recent evaluation.
All of this is fully described in the governance management statements, accounting policies, and subject to report, but some areas are worthy of comment here: shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration of the Board has been strengthened during the year by the external auditors: the appointment of Dawn Airey and Peter Middleton approval of interim, and recommendation of final, dividends: asNon-Executive Directors, and Sam Weihagen and changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of PaulHollingworth as Executive Directors.
In the current year, any securities: Peter Marks, Group Chief Executive of The Co-operative Group, establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system will join the Board upon completion of the UK retail joint of internal control, governance and approval authorities: venture with The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative: executive performance and succession planning: and Roger Burnell has been appointed as the Senior determining standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, IndependentDirector: safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
during the course of the year ahead, Roger Burnell will lead the Nominations Committee through a process to nd my At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its successor in time for an induction and orderly handover ahead responsibilities as listed above.
In particular, the Board reviewed: of my intended retirement atthe 2012 AGM: and the operational performance of each of the Groups segments.
the Board has spent considerable time on executive succession Performance and strategy is continually monitored and reviewed and, in addition to focused discussion on that subject, has by the Board and periodic updates are presented by the segment also orchestrated ongoing exposure to members of the Group Chief Executive Of cers and their senior management teams: Executive Board and their senior management teams, during the development of the strategy for the new Online Travel Agent debate on strategic and operational matters.
andperiodic updates of performance against targets: Each of the Boards Committees has made progress in their areas financial performance, treasury metrics and the Groups of responsibility as described in the report below.
annualbudget: cash ow performance: In line with our usual practice, I will engage with our major shareholders to discuss these developments and to address the Groups nancing arrangements, leading to the new banking anyquestions ahead of and at the AGM on 11 February 2011. facility and the launch of the Sterling and Euro denominated corporate bonds: external financial and narrative reporting, and investor feedback: M&A opportunities and proposals: the Groups IT strategy and transformation programme and other major IT projects: Michael Beckett the Groups taxation strategy and policies, including the Chairman management of related risk: 30 November 2010 the Groups fuel hedging strategy and policy and other treasury policies: Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 49 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 49 49 04 01 2011 04 01 2011 11:20 11:20 Directors Report Corporate governance report continued succession plans in respect of the Executive Directors and BOARD MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE members of the Group Executive Board: The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and supplementary meetings are held as and when necessary.
The Board Board and Committee evaluation and the formulation of held eight scheduled and five unscheduled supplementary meetings changes to improve effectiveness: during the year.
A table detailing individual Director attendance at the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out the Groups emergency procedures and their effectiveness in below.
The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director have provided response to the situation created by the airspace closure due assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their tothevolcanic ash cloud: respective roles and can dedicate suf cient time to meet what is the Groups governance arrangements in response to developing expected of them.
legal and governance proposals and requirements, including the additional requirements of the new Code: The table below shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the number the Groups competition law policy and associated employee convened during the time served by each Director on the Board or education and training programme: and relevant Committee during the year.
the Directors con icts of interest register.
Current Directors Health, Safety & Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Michael Beckett 8 8 5 7 Manny Fontenla-Novoa 8 8 5 5 2 Dawn Airey 4 4 4 4 David Allvey 7 8 6 6 6 6 5 5 Roger Burnell 7 8 6 6 6 6 7 7 5 5 3 Paul Hollingworth 6 6 Bo Lerenius 8 8 7 7 6 6 7 7 4 Peter Middleton 6 6 5 5 3 3 5 Sam Weihagen 7 7 Notes 1 Two of the Nominations Committee meetings dealt with Chairman succession and therefore Michael Beckett did not attend.
2 Dawn Airey joined the Board on 12 April 2010.
She was appointed to the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee on 23 September 2010.
3 Paul Hollingworth joined the Board on 1 January 2010.
4 Peter Middleton joined the Board on 30 November 2009.
He was appointed to the Remuneration Committee and replaced NigelNorthridge as Chairman of that Committee on 25 March 2010.
5 Sam Weihagen joined the Board on 6 November 2009.
Former Directors who served during the year Health, Safety & Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Jrgen Bser 0 2 2 Nigel Northridge 4 4 3 3 5 5 Notes 1 Jrgen Bser stepped down from the Board on 29 November 2009.
2 Nigel Northridge resigned on 25 March 2010.
50 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 50 50 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:38 22:38 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements The search, selection and appointment process in respect of both BOARD COMPOSITION the new Group Chief Financial Of cer and new Independent As at 30 September 2010, the Board comprised the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors is fully described in the section on the three Executive Directors and five Independent Non-Executive Nominations Committee on page 55.
Biographical details of those Directors can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Ludger Heuberg carried out the role of Acting Group Chief Financial Of cer in the period up to 31 December 2009.
Ludger Heuberg had previously been the Groups Chief Financial Of cer between June Board composition 2007 and June 2008 and was a member of the Group Executive Board.
During the period he was Acting Group Chief Financial Of cer, he was not a Director of the Company.
Board tenure Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors 1 year 1 4 years 4 years THE CHAIRMAN Michael Beckett was the Chairman of the Company throughout the year.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Of cer are Tenure includes previous directorships of MyTravel Group plc and Thomas Cook AG.
separate and distinct and each has a written statement of his respective responsibilities, a summary of which can be found on the DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Companys corporate website at www.
At its September 2010 Board meeting, as part of its annual review THE SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR of corporate governance against the Code, the Board considered the Roger Burnell was appointed Senior Independent Director on 4 independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria August 2010 and, as such, is available to shareholders should they speci ed in the Code and determined that Dawn Airey, David have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels Allvey, Roger Burnell, Bo Lerenius, and Peter Middleton remained involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
The Board recognises that Peter Marks, as Group Chief year, a number of governance changes were made in September Executive of The Co-operative Group, which will be a partner in the UK 2009 upon the termination of the Relationship Agreement with retail joint venture announced in October 2010, is not independent.
Arcandor AG, which had previously held a majority shareholding in the Company.
The decision was taken at that time to defer the The Board reached its determination of independence in respect appointment of a Senior Independent Director until such time as of Peter Middleton, notwithstanding the receipt by him of a pension the Board had been strengthened and had settled into leading of 60,500 per year from the Thomas Cook Pension Plan, a fide ned a fully oated, independent Company.
This decision to defer the bene t pension scheme.
This pension is fully funded and accrued appointment of a Senior Independent Director resulted in the in the period 1987 to 1992 when he was CEO of Thomas Cook.
Company not being in compliance with provision A.
3.3 of the The Board recognises that being in receipt of a pension from the Code for the period 1 October 2009 until 4 August 2010.
Groups pension scheme gives rise to a potential con ict, which it has authorised as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, CHANGES TO THE BOARD subject to the condition that he does not participate in any discussion Changes to the Board during the year were as follows: Sam Weihagen, or decision regarding any of the Groups pension schemes.
The Board Chief Executive Of cer, Northern Europe, was appointed as a Director believes that Peter Middleton is independent in all other respects and as Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Of cer on 6 November and also believes that this condition is suf cient to maintain 2009: Paul Hollingworth was appointed to the Board as Group Chief his independence.
Financial Of cer on 1 January 2010.
He replaced Jrgen Bser who RE-APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS stepped down from the Board and the position of Group Chief In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, Financial Of cer on 29 November 2009, following a period of ill all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual health.
Nigel Northridge resigned from the Board as an Independent General Meeting AGM following their appointment to the Board and Non-Executive Director on 25 March 2010. thereafter are subject to re-election every third AGM.
Non-Executive In order to strengthen the Board, a process commenced at the start Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term and, subject to of the year to appoint two additional Independent Non-Executive rigorous review by the Nominations Committee and re-election by Directors.
This process resulted in Peter Middleton and Dawn Airey shareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
being appointed to the Board on 30 November 2009 and 12 April Upon the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, Michael 2010 respectively.
Peter Marks, Group Chief Executive of The Beckett and Bo Lerenius will be proposed for re-election: and Dawn Co-operative Group, will join the Board upon completion of the Airey and Peter Marks will be proposed for election by shareholders UK retail joint venture with The Co-operative Group and Midlands at the 2011 AGM.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 51 51 24 12 2010 24 12 2010 08:54 08:54 Directors Report Corporate governance report continued Michael Beckett has signalled his intention to retire at the 2012 AGM Board evaluation process and the Nominations Committee, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, has initiated a process to nd his successor in Detailed questionnaire time for an orderly handover and induction.
This is further explained in the Nominations Committee section on page 55.
Effectiveness report OPERATION OF THE BOARD Compiled by the Group Company Secretary and agreed Senior executives below Board level attended relevant parts of with the Chairman Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the Groups Discussed at September Board meeting succession plans.
In addition to the papers circulated prior to each meeting, Directors Priorities and improvements agreed were provided between meetings with relevant information on matters affecting the business.
Such updates were carried out by a variety of methods, including conference calls amongst the full Upon receipt of the completed forms, the Group Company Secretary Board or between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, compiled a report, drawing out the key themes and issues that were and by way of the Group Company Secretary circulating papers and raised and formulated a number of recommendations to further updates on relevant issues.
The Chairman has held meetings with enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The report also highlighted the achievements against the objectives that had been agreed by the Board a year earlier following the The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, conduct of the 2009 evaluation.
This report was developed and is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the agreed with the Chairman and circulated to the Board for debate Board on company law and corporate governance matters as well as atthe September 2010 Board meeting.
ensuring that there is a smooth ow of information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and services The results of the evaluation concluded that the operation of the of the Group Company Secretary and, through him, have access to Board and its Committees had improved during the year and independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the considerable progress had been made against the previously set Companys expense.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to targets including Board composition, the ongoing programme of the Board, the Group Executive Board, the Finance & Administration strategic presentations and debate, the Boards exposure to members Committee, the Disclosure Committee, the Audit Committee, the of the Group Executive Board which helped build an understanding Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The of succession plans and improvement of regular Board reports, Deputy Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Health, Safety & including shareholder feedback and monthly financial reports Environmental Committee.
following the appointment of the new Group Chief Financial Of cer.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a deed of The evaluation also recognised a small number of issues that arose indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the and had been remedied during the year.
Whilst recognising that Group Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains Directors progress had been made, the evaluation highlighted a small number and Of cers liability insurance.
of areas that the Board felt should be given additional focus in the year ahead, including succession, strategy and risk management.
BOARD EVALUATION The Board recognises the bene t of a thorough evaluation process The Board debated the output from the evaluation and agreed the as a useful tool to highlight issues, track progress against targets and recommended actions and a forward agenda of additional key issues to determine and shape the focus of Board attention in the future.
The Board and Committee evaluation to be carried out in the current financial year will cover the same areas as listed above A thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees was and will be designed to track progress against the agreed actions conducted during the year.
This was facilitated by the Group Company setin 2010.
Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
The process involved each of the Directors completing a comprehensive questionnaire, The Non-Executive Directors, under the leadership of the Senior which was structured to encourage both graded responses and Independent Director, conducted a performance evaluation narrative feedback in respect of a range of questions that focused of the Chairman.
This was carried out in accordance with the on the following areas: Code and involved a similar process to that described above.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors met separately to discuss Board and Committee composition and dynamics: the evaluation and feedback was given to the Chairman by the knowledge and information: Senior Independent Director.
agenda and time management: Board support: The Companys performance management system applies to management at all levels across the Group.
The individual strategic development and oversight: performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed bythe delegation of authority: Remuneration Committee.
risk management: corporate responsibility: human resource management: executive remuneration: performance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: committee structure and performance: and priorities for change.
52 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 52 52 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:38 22:38 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements BOARD TRAINING AND INDUCTION DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codi ed the Directors duty Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Groups con icts, or possibly may con ict, with the interests of the Company.
business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
Such A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has inductions typically include meetings with senior management, visits been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the to the Companys business segments, and the receipt of presentations otherDirectors.
on key business areas and relevant documentation.
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing Directors also receive training throughout the year, both at Board and con icts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise con icts.
Committee meetings and by way of attendance at external conferences Aspart of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations and seminars.
At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee Committee should review the authorised con icts every six months, meetings, the Directors receive regular updates and presentations on ormore frequently if a new potential con ict situation materialises.
changes and developments to the business, and to the legislative and TheNominations Committee and Board applied the above principles regulatory environments.
During the year, the Board was provided with: andprocess throughout the year to 30 September 2010 and con rm that these have operated effectively.
When authorising a potential con ict updates on the economic and business environment in each of in respect of Peter Middleton, the Boardspeci ed acondition that he the segments: should not participate in any discussion or decision regarding any of the a brie ng on competition law and the Groups competition Groups pension schemes.
The potential con ict ismore fully described in compliance and employee education programme: the section on Directorindependence on page 51. brie ngs on the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006, the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the impact on the Companys governance arrangements following the planned introduction of the new Code: and a brie ng on the development of carbon emissions legislation in each source market.
THE GROUP GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board has delegated authority to its Committees on speci c aspects of management and control of the Group.
The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Health Safety & Environmental, and Disclosure Committees are circulated to all the Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
Matters discussed and agreed at those Committees, the Group Executive Board and the Finance & Administration Committee are reported to the next Board meeting.
Thomas Cook Group plc Board of Directors Health, Safety Finance & Group Audit Remuneration Nominations Disclosure &Environmental Administration Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Segment Function Fuel Hedging Management Boards Boards Committee Committee Country Non-Executive Directors only Boards Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors and or other senior executives only Chief Financial Of cer and the Deputy to the Group Chief Executive GROUP EXECUTIVE BOARD Of cer are also members of the Group Executive Board.
The other The Group Chief Executive Of cer chairs the Group Executive Board which current members of the Group Executive Board, together with their meets at least eight times a year to oversee the strategic development biographies, are set out on page 48. and operational management of the Groups businesses.
The Group Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 53 53 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:38 22:38 Directors Report Corporate governance report continued COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD Principal activities during the year Audit Committee At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular, it reviewed: the full and half-year results including accounting issues and judgements and the interim management statements issued during the year: information in support of the statements in relation to going David Allvey concern and disclosure of information to the auditors: Chairman the Groups system of internal control, receiving reports from Meetings: Six management, the external auditors and the internal auditors see section headed risk management and internal control on page 57 : Members the reports from audits conducted by the internal auditors: David Allvey Chairman the annual work plan for each of the internal and external auditors: Roger Burnell the Groups main risks and mitigating actions: Bo Lerenius the Groups business continuity plans and the work plan and Meetings also regularly attended by timetable for further development: Michael Beckett Chairman the Groups taxation strategy and policies, including the Manny Fontenla-Novoa Group Chief Executive Of cer management of related risk: Paul Hollingworth Group Chief Financial Of cer the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud: Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary  LLP PwC security in relation to IT and retail shops: Ernst & Young LLP E&Y the performance of the internal auditors, leading to the re-appointment of E&Y as the Groups internal auditors: David Allvey is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial proposals for engaging the external auditors to carry out experience as required by the Code.
non-audit related work see below : and the Committees work plan for the year ahead and a review Composition of the Committee ofhistoric activity against the Committees terms of reference.
There have been no changes to the composition of the Committee External auditors during the year.
There is a policy in place which requires all material non-audit Role of the Committee work proposed to be carried out by the external auditors to be The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for pre-authorised by the Committee in order to ensure that the overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors control functions and for making recommendations to the Board independence or objectivity.
The policy, which is appended as a inrelation to the appointment of the Companys internal and schedule to the Audit Committees terms of reference, is published externalauditors.
onthe Companys website at www.
The Committee is pleased to report that for a third successive year there In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which has been a signi cant reduction to the amount of non-audit fees paid reports its findings to the Board, is authorised to: to the external auditors.
An analysis of the fees earned by the Groups monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed in Note 8 to interim management statements, including a review of the the financial statements.
PwC were re-appointed by shareholders signi cant financial reporting judgements contained in them: at the AGM held on 25 March 2010.
Upon the recommendation review the Companys internal financial controls and internal of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for re-election by control and risk management systems: shareholders atthe AGM to be held on 11February 2011.
PwC have monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal con rmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a audit function: letter addressed to the Directors.
establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including the monitoring of their independence: and monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys .
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the Committee relies on information and support from management across the business.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary atthe registered of ce.
54 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 54 54 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:38 22:38 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Nominations Committee Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: recommended the appointment of Sam Weihagen to the Board asDeputy to the Group Chief Executive Of cer: Michael Beckett monitored the process in respect of the search and selection of a Chairman new Group Chief Financial Of cer, leading to a recommendation forthe appointment of Paul Hollingworth: Meetings: Seven considered the re-appointment of the Directors subject to Members retirement by rotation, before making a recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election: Michael Beckett Chairman commenced and monitored the process to recruit additional Dawn Airey Non-Executive Directors, leading to recommendations for the David Allvey appointments of Peter Middleton and Dawn Airey: Roger Burnell Bo Lerenius recommended the appointment of Roger Burnell as the Senior Peter Middleton Independent Director: considered the process and indicative timing in relation to Meetings also attended by the succession of Michael Beckett as Chairman: and Manny Fontenla-Novoa Group Chief Executive Of cer considered Directors potential con icts see page 53.
Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary Chairman succession Michael Beckett has indicated that he will retire from of ce at Role of the Committee the AGM in 2012.
The Committee has considered the process The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing to appoint his successor in line with the Code, which it will and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending commence after the AGM in 2011 with a view to ensure that any other changes to the composition of the Board or the Board there will be suf cient time for induction of the Chairman Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make elect and a smooth succession into the role.
recommendations to the Board on all new appointments to the Board, Appointment process as well as Board balance and composition.
The Committee ensures In respect of the appointment of a new Group Chief Financial that there is clarity in respect of the role description and capabilities Of cer, the Committee engaged Spencer Stuart an external search required for such appointments.
The Committee is also responsible for rm and the Chairman of the Audit Committee was also involved reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently if required, the with the interviews of the short-listed candidates.
In respect of the Directors potential con icts and for making recommendations to the process to appoint two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board, Board in respect of authorising such matters.
the Committee formulated a set of criteria, including the required The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on skills and attributes for suitable candidates.
com or from the Group Company Secretary the comments from the Board evaluation process and considered at the registered of ce.
the current composition of the Board and the skills and attributes required in the future.
The Committee considered candidates brought Composition of the Committee to their attention from a wide range of professional rms and other The Chairman and all of the Independent Non-Executive Directors sources.
The conditional appointment of Peter Marks has been are members of the Committee.
Peter Middleton and Dawn Airey monitored and recommended by the Committee but was brought were appointed members of the Committee on being appointed about due to the proposed retail joint venture with The Co-operative to the Board on 30 November 2009 and 12 April 2010 respectively.
Group and Midlands Co-operative and, as such, an external search Nigel Northridge left the Committee upon his resignation from the agent was not used.
The process to identify and appoint a new Board on 25 March 2010.
Chairman will be conducted by the Committee under the leadership Board appointments of the Senior Independent Director.
An external search and selection Appointments to the Board are made on merit and against objective rm will beappointed to assist the Committee with this appointment.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 55 55 23 12 2010 23 12 2010 19:37 19:37 Directors Report Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible for the review and oversight of compliance with relevant legislation and regulation relating to Peter Middleton health, safety and the environment across the Group.
Chairman The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on Meetings: Seven www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the registered of ce.
Members Principal activities during the year Peter Middleton Chairman At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its Roger Burnell responsibilities as listed above and in particular: Bo Lerenius reviewed and agreed the Groups sustainability report for 2009: Meetings also attended by monitored implementation of the Group-wide strategy for health David Allvey Chairman, Audit Committee and safety including the introduction of approved Group preferred Michael Beckett Chairman practice across all markets: Manny Fontenla-Novoa Group Chief Executive Of cer reviewed the Group-wide approach to sustainability and agreed Paul Wood Group Director, Human Resources an implementation plan: Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary reviewed current and future legislative requirements in relation to climate change and carbon reporting: A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried considered the risks of water-borne illness in destination markets out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, including andactions to mitigate these: an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Code in reviewed the Groups emergency procedures, particularly in the respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included within light of the closure of airspace due to the volcanic ash cloud: the Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 69. considered the business risks of water scarcity in destination Composition of the Committee markets: and All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive monitored progress in relation to the Groups programme of Directors.
During the year, Nigel Northridge was Chairman of the government affairs.
Committee until his resignation from the Board on 25 March 2010.
On the same day, Peter Middleton was appointed a member and The Groups 2009 sustainability report is available on succeeded Nigel Northridge as Chairman.
com sustainability and contains the Groups health, safety andenvironmental policies, an explanation Health, Safety & Environmental Committee of how Thomas Cook manages sustainability and progress against targets.
The2010 sustainability report will be available on www.
A summary of the approach, and Groups performance in relation, to sustainability is contained on pages 38 to 41 of the Directors Roger Burnell Report Business Review.
Chairman Meetings: Five Members Roger Burnell Chairman Dawn Airey David Allvey Manny Fontenla-Novoa Meetings also attended by Michael Beckett Chairman Executives and Senior Managers with responsibility for health, safety and environmental matters Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary Stephanie Mackie Deputy Group Company Secretary Composition of the Committee Dawn Airey was appointed as a member of the Committee on 23 September 2010.
56 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 56 56 23 12 2010 23 12 2010 19:37 19:37 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements institutional investors, and welcomes the dialogue that this Finance & Administration Committee enables with shareholders.
The Company makes every effort To facilitate swift and ef cient operational management decisions, to ascertain investor perceptions of the Company and regular the Board has established the Finance & Administration Committee reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided to the Board.
comprising any two Directors, one of whom must be an Executive Director Additionally, the Board responds to ad hoc requests for information which has delegated authority, within clearly identi ed parameters, and all shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM, where they inrelation to day-to-day nancing and administrative matters.
have an opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
Disclosure Committee The Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Board has established a Disclosure Committee which is met a number of major institutional shareholders during the year responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and controls to discuss the Groups remuneration policy and proposed changes in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information to the performance targets for the Groups executive long-term in accordance with the Companys obligations under the UK Listing incentive plans.
The Chairman met separately with a number of Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committee major institutional shareholders to discuss governance arrangements comprises the Group Chief Executive Of cer, who is the Chairman, and to gain a first-hand understanding of any issues or concerns they the Group Chief Financial Of cer and the Group Company Secretary.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION The Board promotes open communication with shareholders.
This is At its 2008 AGM, a resolution was passed allowing the Company to use formalised within a framework of an investor relations programme its website and email as the primary means of communication with conducted by the Group Chief Executive Of cer, the Group Chief its shareholders.
This arrangement provides signi cant bene ts for Financial Of cer and the Investor Relations team.
The programme shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, included the presentation of preliminary and half-year results and reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still opt a strategy day, which can be accessed on the Thomas Cook Group to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys website at www.
com along with financial reports, corporate website was upgraded during the year and contains interim management statements, investor presentations and trading information for shareholders, including share price information and updates.
The management team conducts regular meetings with news releases.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an effective system of internal control and risk management that is appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups activities and complies with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance and has approved the framework and the standards implemented.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation of the Group risk management policy to the Group Risk Management Committee GMRC, which is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Of cer and comprises senior executives from across the Group.
Board Ultimate responsibility Audit Committee Group Executive Board Group Risk Management Committee Responsibilities supervising a thorough and regular evaluation of the nature and extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed: reviewing the corporate risk pro le and recommending risk management strategies: and supervising and assessing the overall effectiveness of the risk management process.
report into and support 1 2 3 4 5 6 UK Risk Management Central Europe Risk West & East Europe Risk Northern Europe Risk North America Risk Airlines Germany Risk Committee Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee Risk registers are compiled and submitted by each segment for Risk identi cation & reporting review quarterly.
In addition, a central risk register is maintained and Each of the six segments has a risk management committee, which updated by risk owners.
The GRMC prepares a half-yearly risk report meets regularly.
By implementing the risk management policy, the for the attention of the Audit Committee based on the feedback from segments are responsible for: the segment risk management committees and also a top down maintaining and updating risk reporting: review of the risk register.
managing risk action implementation and measurement The report and the risk register identify the principal risks to the systems:and business and assess the adequacy of controls and procedures in place maintaining and reviewing risk performance and to mitigate the likelihood and the impact of these risks.
Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 57 TH017 p49 59. indd TH017 p49 59. indd 57 57 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:38 22:38 Directors Report Corporate governance report continued reports to the GRMC by speci c risk owners on the effectiveness of GOING CONCERN actions taken to mitigate risks.
The regular risk reporting regime has After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable created an environment for the development and improvement of expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate risk management procedures across the Group.
The Audit Committee resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable reviews the reports of the GMRC and makes recommendations to future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern improve risk management and internal control.
This process of risk basis in preparing the financial statements.
identi cation, measurement and reporting provides a comprehensive STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT ongoing assessment of the signi cant risks facing the Group and the OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION mitigating actions taken in respect of those risks.
This process ensures REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS that the Group complies with relevant corporate governance best The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, practice in relation to risk management, including the guidance issued the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements under the Turnbull Guidance.
The Groups internal audit function in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each audit makes recommendations to that Committee in relation to the financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the maintenance of a sound control environment throughout the Group.
Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the A schedule of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, likely European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give impacts on the Group and mitigating actions being taken by a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the management is set out on pages 24 to 25 of the Directors Report - Group and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Whistleblowing The Group encourages employees to report any concerns which they select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: feel need to be brought to the attention of management and has make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and adopted a whistleblowing policy and theft and fraud reporting policy.
prudent:and These are published on the Groups intranet sites, allowing such state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by matters to be raised in con dence through the appropriate channels.
Code of ethics The Directors con rm that they have complied with the above The Group has a code of ethics which deals with: requirements in preparing the financial statements.
prohibitions on employees using their position for personal gain: The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial prohibitions on improper business practices: position of the Company and the Group, and for ensuring that the a requirement for compliance with all internal approval and financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply authorisation procedures and legal requirements: and with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial a requirement to disclose potential con icts of interest and statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible potential related party contracts.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud This code of ethics is contained within the Groups internal policies and other irregularities.
guide, which is available to all employees and, in particular, those with responsibility for procurement or other dealings with third-party The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the suppliers.
In addition, the Group Company Secretary is available for Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing advice on any matter which may give rise to cause for concern in the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ relation to the code of ethics.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Group code of ethics has been further reinforced during the year DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS by the introduction of a disclosure of interests and bene ts policy, Each of the Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of which applies to Senior Executives in the Group.
This supplements this Directors report con rms that: so far as they are aware, there similar policies that are in place in each of the segments.
is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to Review of Group system of internal control have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware has conducted a review of the Groups system of internal control.
There is an ongoing process for the identi cation and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes which has been in RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT place throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of the OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements.
This includes the process by which management Each of the Directors, who were in of ce at the date of this report, prepares consolidated accounts.
The work conducted by management whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 46 and 47 and described on pages 57 to 58 is complemented, supported and con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: challenged by the controls assurance work carried out independently the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in by the external auditors, PwC, and the internal auditors, E&Y.
Regular accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair reports on control issues are presented to the Audit Committee by view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the PwC and E&Y.
The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system Group: and of internal control, can con rm that necessary actions have been, the Directors Report contained on pages 3 to 71 includes a fair or are being, taken to remedy any signi cant failings or weaknesses review of the development and performance of the business identi ed from that review.
and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
