Corporate Governance Report The Autonomy Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance, which it considers are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in the company.
Autonomy expects all its directors and employees to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
The company will strive to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure: operate with integrity: and observe and respect the culture of every country in which it does business.
political donations: and Compliance With the Combined Code internal control arrangements.
The companys ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the the company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, Board in February 2011, at which time it was determined that no material and through to the date of this document, it was compliant with the amendments were required.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to provisions of, and applied the principles of, Section 1 of the Combined Board committees.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Board Code 2008.
The following section, together with the Remuneration Committees are given on pages 31 and 32.
Report on pages 35 to 41, provides details of how the company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report and financial statements, and for ensuring that they present a balanced Board Organisation and Structure assessment of the company's position, lies with the Board.
The Role of the Board Board Meetings The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the groups business The Board meets at least once a quarter, and the meetings are structured and has the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to to allow open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing the the relevant laws of England and Wales and the Articles of Association.
strategy, trading, financial performance and all other matters relating to the The Board is: company.
Prior to each meeting, the Board is furnished with information in concerning the state of the business and its performance in a form and of a responsible for the management, direction and performance of the quality appropriate for it to discharge its duties.
The Board delegates daygroup and its businesses: to-day responsibility for managing the company to the executives.
required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent from executive management: The following table shows the number of years current serving directors accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of business: and have been on the Board as at 21 February 2011 and their attendance at responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on the scheduled Board meetings they were eligible to attend during 2010: groups system of corporate governance.
Attended Schedule of Matters Years on Board Meetings The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision Robert Webb, Chairman................... 1 4 4 and these include: 1 Jonathan Bloomer.......................... 2 2 2 Richard Gaunt................................ 5 4 4 approval of financial statements: Sushovan Hussain............................ 7 4 4 dividends: 3 Frank Kelly..................................... 3 3 board appointments and removals: Dr. Michael Lynch............................. 15 4 4 long term objectives and commercial strategy: John McMonigall............................... 12 4 4 changes in capital structure: appointment, removal and compensation of senior management: 1 Commenced 1 August 2010. major investments including mergers and acquisitions: 2 Mr. Gaunt commenced service as a non-executive director in 2006 following risk management: service as an executive director from the companys founding.
corporate governance: 3 Commenced 1 May 2010. engagement of professional advisors: 28 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings Chief Executive.
Dr. Michael Lynch, as Chief Executive, is responsible for: to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another engagement are nevertheless provided with all the running the day-to-day business of the company, within the authorities papers and information relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss delegated to him by the Board: issues arising in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
ensuring implementation across the company of the policies and strategy set by the Board for the company: day-to-day management of the executive and senior management Division of Responsibilities team: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a proposing and developing the companys strategy and overall division of responsibilities that is established in writing.
commercial objectives in conjunction with the executives, including identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its business Chairman.
Robert Webb, as Chairman of the Board, is responsible for: and reviewing the performance of existing businesses: leading the development of senior management within the company leadership of the Board and creating the conditions for overall board with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable and individual director effectiveness and a constructive relationship individuals for future management roles: with good communications between the executive and non-executive ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner of the directors, taking into account the issues relevant to the company and issues facing the company and of any important events and the concerns of all Board members: developments: ensuring, with the Chief Executive and the company Secretary, the leading the communication programme with shareholders and provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board: analysts: and ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in fostering good relationships with key stakeholders.
the development of strategy and overall commercial objectives: managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the The Board is of the opinion that Dr. Lynchs significant and in-depth discussion of complex or contentious issues: knowledge and experience of the companys business, technology, industry ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders and and target markets enables him to provide effective leadership of the that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of companys operations and to continue to make a significant, positive the major investors in the company: contribution to the companys ongoing business.
chairing the Nominations Committee which initiates succession planning to retain and build an effective and complementary board: Dr. Lynchs other significant business commitments, which remain relatively taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of unchanged from last year, are described in his biography on page 24 The individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to Board performance evaluation process referred to elsewhere confirmed enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: that the other Board members are satisfied that Dr. Lynch has the promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his duties governance throughout the company, particularly at board level: as Chief Executive.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to Non-Executive Directors.
The non-executive directors of the Board have ensure their early contribution to the Board: and diverse business, financial and technical experience, details of which are ensuring that the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees, summarised on pages 24 and 25 and they each play a full role in the and individual directors is formally and rigorously evaluated at least consideration of matters brought before the Board.
considering, approving and monitoring performance against strategic During 2010, the Chairman again travelled to a number of the companys objectives through detailed reviews conducted at Board level: offices around the world to meet with staff to discuss the companys providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and business, vision and strategy.
effective controls, which enable risks to be assessed and managed: and The Board is of the opinion that Mr. Webbs significant and in-depth setting the companys values and standards and ensuring that its knowledge and experience of the companys business, combined with his obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood external business experience, enables him to provide effective leadership and met.
of the Board and to continue to make a significant, positive contribution to the companys ongoing business.
Non-executive directors are expected to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which remain management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the relatively unchanged from last year, are described in his biography on reporting of performance.
page 24 The Board performance evaluation process referred to elsewhere confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied that Mr. Webb has The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its normal business.
This the necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his includes holding at least one offsite meeting each year, the agendas for duties as Chairman.
which cover a broad range of financial, commercial and technical aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the company.
These meetings are held with different members of the management team attending, depending on the topics for discussion.
Individual non-executive directors provide specific support and advice on discrete issues being considered by the company, according to their particular skills and experience.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Corporate Governance Report ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning Board Composition, Balance and Independence arrangements are in place in relation to executive directors and other The Board comprises seven Directors including the Chairman, five of whom senior executive roles.
served throughout all of 2010 and two of whom joined during the year.
Also during the year two Directors retired after more than nine years of service.
To address the effects of s175 of the Companies Act 2006 directors In addition to the Chairman, there are four non-executive directors, and two conflicts of interests which came into force on 1 October 2010, the executive directors.
companys Articles of Association were amended to enable the Board to authorise situations that may give rise to Directors conflicts of interest.
The names and biographical details of the current directors are set out on During 2010 each Director was asked to identify any situations where their pages 24 and 25.
The terms and conditions of employment of all Directors own interests might conflict with the interests of the company.
During 2010 are available for inspection at any time at the registered office.
no conflicts arose which would require the Board to exercise authority or discretion in relation to such conflicts.
The Directors have an ongoing duty As noted above and as committed to in the 2010 Annual Report, two new to notify the Board of any potential conflicts and a formal review by the board candidates were identified and appointed during the year.
The Board Board will be undertaken annually.
expects to announce an additional appointment during 2011.
The Board has been established in order to give a balance of knowledge, Company Secretary experience and objective overview.
The Board is structured to ensure that All directors have access to the advice and services of the company there is no undue dominance by the executive directors, with controls over Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board compensation and all other material matters reserved for the Board rather procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are than individual executives, as discussed herein.
The Board is satisfied that complied with.
The Company Secretary ensures that the directors take the appropriate balance has been consistently achieved.
independent professional advice as required.
Committees are provided with sufficient financial and informational resources to undertake their The four non-executive directors and Chairman provide a blend of duties.
experience to enable them to bring strong independent judgement and considerable knowledge and experience to the Board's deliberations.
The Board Effectiveness Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sit as executive directors to provide the necessary skills in commercial, operational and Appointments to the Board financial management.
Mr. McMonigall is the senior independent nonThere is a formal procedure for the appointment of new directors to the executive director.
This is described in the section on the Nominations Committee.
Jonathan Bloomer was referred to the Directors by external sources, and The Board considers all of its present non-executive directors to be fully was considered a strong candidate based on his accounting background independent and free from any material business or other relationships that and extensive experience in one of the companys key markets.
Professor could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement, Kelly was identified as a potential candidate by internal sources, and brings with the exception of Mr. Gaunt who served as an executive director to the Board key mathematical and technology insight.
Each were through to the end of 2005.
Mr. McMonigalls service to the Board has recommended by the Nominations Committee to the full Board solely based been extraordinary since the companys founding and his continued service on their merit, which then confirmed each of their appointments.
is of high benefit notwithstanding his tenure of over nine years.
Information and Professional Development There are no cross-directorships or significant links between directors From time to time, the Board considers input from non-Board members on serving on the Board through involvement in other companies or bodies.
matters of significance or on new opportunities for the group.
Financial The sole limited exception to the foregoing is that both Dr. Lynch and plans including results and market forecasts are regularly discussed at Mr. Webb serve as non-executive directors of the BBC.
The Board has Board meetings.
Non-executive directors periodically visit different parts of considered this relationship and determined that there is no impairment of the group and are provided with briefings and information to assist them in the independence of either individual, noting that the position is a nonperforming their duties.
commercial role, the large size of the BBC board and that neither individual can of their own accord directly influence compensation for the other in any The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training situation.
programmes are provided and the Company Secretary is to organise the programmes.
Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive for identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that they are directors are equal members of the Board and have overall collective adequately informed about the company and their responsibilities as a responsibility for the direction of the company.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, directors are responsible for: ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
bringing a wide range of skills and experience to the group, including independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, financial On appointment, individual directors are expected to undergo an induction controls and systems of risk management: programme in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive Code, covering, amongst other things: and executive directors: scrutinising and challenging performance across the groups business: the business of the group: assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the company: of the group: and briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and opportunities to visit business operations.
30 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report The induction programme for new directors is tailored to their specific Independent Advice requirements, the aim of which is to introduce them to key executives The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of across the business and to enhance their knowledge and understanding of the directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or financial the company and its activities.
If appropriate, the induction will also include advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed procedure to enable briefings on the scope of committees, meetings with the external auditor them to do so.
and other areas the Company Secretary deems fit, considering the directors area of responsibility.
The Company Secretary provides updates Indemnification of Directors on legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to In accordance with the companys Articles of Association and to the extent individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in permitted by the laws of England and Wales, directors are granted an office, the directors are continually updated on the groups businesses.
indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of During 2010, a number of directors received training from external lawyers their office.
In respect of those matters for which the directors may not be on a number of matters including corporate governance.
indemnified, the company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither the companys indemnity nor Performance Evaluation the insurance provides cover in the event that the director is proven to have The members of the Board evaluate the performance of the Board, its acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
committees and individual members at meetings, each year with the aim of improving individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its Board Committees committees and the groups performance.
The Chairman leads the The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration evaluation, taking into account the views of executive directors.
Committee and a Nominations Committee to deal with specific aspects of the company's affairs.
The Board is satisfied that the terms of reference for The evaluation is designed to determine whether the Board continues to be each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code.
capable of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a The terms of reference for all Board committees can be found on the Board, the directors are informed and up to date with the business and its companys website at www.
com or a copy can be obtained by goals and understand the context within which it operates.
The current application to the Company Secretary at the companys registered office.
evaluation is also to include a review of the administration of the Board covering the operation of the Board, its agenda and the reports and The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them information produced for the Boards consideration.
The Board will to undertake their duties in an effective manner, at the cost of the company continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external year ahead.
The evaluation undertaken in 2010 was conducted internally, led by the The Company Secretary or his delegate acts as Secretary to the Chairman, and covered topics such as: committees.
The minutes of committee meetings are available to all directors.
No one other than committee chairmen and members are strategic development: entitled to be present at a meeting of the nomination, audit or remuneration risk management and control: committees, but others may attend at the invitation of the committee.
succession planning: shareholder and stakeholder communication: Audit Committee board structure, committees, operations and effectiveness: The members of the Audit Committee during the year, together with a board committee processes: and record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible induction, development and evaluation.
to attend, are set out below: The Chairman met with each member of the Board.
The review ultimately Attended found the performance of each director to be effective and concluded that Meetings the Board provides the effective leadership and control required for a listed Jonathan Bloomer, Chairman appointed 7 Sept. 2010..... 1 1 company.
The review also found that the Board works well and operates Barry Ariko retired 8 Sept. 2010....................................... 2 2 effectively in an environment where there is constructive challenge from the Frank Kelly appointed 7 Sept. 2010.................................. 1 1 non-executive directors.
Each director was also satisfied with the John McMonigall............................................................. 4 4 contribution made by their colleagues and that board committees operate Richard Perle retired 8 Sept. 2010................................... 2 2 properly and efficiently.
Various recommendations resulted from the evaluation which have been discussed by the Board and will be acted upon The Audit Committee is comprised of financially literate members having in 2011, as appropriate.
the necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
Mr. Bloomer was appointed chairman of the committee after he Re-election of Directors commenced service in August 2010.
Prior to that time each of the other Whilst the companys Articles of Association require at least one third of the committee members served as the chair at times during 2010. directors to be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting, the incoming Corporate Code requires all directors of companies who form part of the FTSE350 be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
As a result the company intends to propose all of its directors for re-election or election for the first time at this and future Annual General Meetings.
Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Corporate Governance Report The committees terms of reference include, among other things: ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nominations Committee: monitoring the scope and results of the external audit: the review of interim and annual results: makes recommendations to the Board on board composition and the involvement of the external auditor in those processes: balance: review of whistle blowing procedures: proposes to the Board new appointments of executive and nonconsidering compliance with legal requirements: executive directors: and accounting standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services identifies and nominates for approval candidates to fill Board vacancies Authority: and as and when they arise.
advising the Board on the requirement to maintain an effective system of internal controls.
Nominations are based on objective criteria taking into account the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The committee also The committee also keeps under review: reviews the time required from a non-executive director.
The committee strives to consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds, also the independence and objectivity of the group's external auditor: taking into account what skills and expertise are needed on the Board in value for money of the audit: and the future.
In conducting its duties the committee may seek external the nature, extent and cost-effectiveness of the non-audit services advice.
On appointment, all Directors are asked to confirm they have sufficient time The committee has authority over the appointment, remuneration and to devote to their duties which along with their duties and roles are resignation or dismissal of the company's auditor.
confirmed in their letter of appointment.
The committee meets at least four times a year, and always prior to the In 2010 the committee made two recommendations for Board candidacy.
announcement of interim or annual results.
The external auditor and Chief The process adopted in each of Mr. Bloomer and Professor Kellys Financial Officer attend all meetings in order to ensure that all the appointment was that each were proposed as candidates to the information required by the committee is available for it to operate Nominations Committee, which had responsibility to make effectively.
The entire committee also meets each quarter with the external recommendations on the appointment of new Directors.
In accordance with auditor without any executive directors present.
the Nomination Committee's terms of reference, the committee reviewed each candidate against that of other Non-Executive Director candidates, The committee has discussed with the external auditor their independence, including their ability to devote the appropriate amount of time to the role, and has received and reviewed written disclosures from the external auditor and concluded that, given the skill set and experience of each of the thenregarding independence.
Non-audit work is generally put out to tender.
In current Non-Executive Directors, each of Mr. Bloomer and Professor Kelly most cases, the company engages another independent firm of fulfilled key requirements for the role and recommended their appointment accountants to perform tax consulting work to avoid the possibility that the to the Board.
auditor's objectivity and independence could be compromised: work is only carried out by the auditor in cases where they are best suited to perform Remuneration Committee the work, for example, tax compliance.
The company does not award The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year, together general consulting work to the auditor.
However, from time to time, the with a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were company will engage the auditor on matters relating to acquisition eligible to attend, are set out below: accounting and due diligence.
In these circumstances, the Chief Financial Officer seeks approval from the committee.
Attended Meetings Nominations Committee Barry Ariko, Chairman retired 8 Sept. 2010..................... 3 3 The members of the Nominations Committee during the year, together with Frank Kelly, Chairman appointed 7 Sept. 2010................ a record of their attendance at scheduled meetings which they were eligible Jonathan Bloomer appointed 7 Sept. 2010...................... to attend, are set out below: John McMonigall............................................................. 3 3 Richard Perle retired 8 Sept. 2010................................... 3 3 Attended Meetings In addition to scheduled meetings, there are a number of ad hoc meetings Richard Perle, Chairman retired 8 Sept. 2010................. 2 2 to deal with specific matters.
Robert Webb, Chairman appointed as chair 7 Sept. 2010.
2 2 Barry Ariko retired 8 Sept. 2010....................................... 2 2 A full description of the responsibility and operation of the remuneration Jonathan Bloomer appointed 7 Sept. 2010....................... committee is set out in the remuneration report beginning on page 35.
In addition to meetings there are a number of ad hoc meetings to address specific matters.
The Nominations Committees key objective is to ensure that the Board comprises individuals with the requisite skills, knowledge and experience to 32 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report companys website and announced via the regulatory news service.
Relations with Shareholders Financial and other information is made available on the companys The company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities website, www.
com, which is regularly updated.
clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue with investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
Internal Control The Investor Relations programme includes: The Board is responsible for the companys system of internal control and formal presentations of full year and interim results: for reviewing its effectiveness with regard to achieving the companys briefing meetings with major institutional shareholders after results, to business objectives and enhancing shareholder value.
Such a system is ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and complete designed to manage the risk of failure, and by its nature can provide only view of the groups performance and the issues faced by the group: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Chief loss.
The system has been in place throughout the year and up to the date Executive and the Chief Financial Officer to discuss business of these financial statements.
The Board regularly reviews the performance: effectiveness of the companys internal control systems, including financial, hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management operational and compliance controls and risk management, and believes deliver presentations which provide an overview of business and the system is in accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance.
These operations: reviews are principally based on reports from management to consider attendance by senior executives at relevant meetings and conferences whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled throughout the year: and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied or indicate responding to enquiries from shareholders and analysts through the a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a companys Investor Relations team: and specific assessment for purposes of this Annual Report using the standard a section dedicated to shareholders on the companys website.
of care applicable to directors in the exercise of their duties.
The directors consider that its internal controls, particularly given the companys size and Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication with the nature of the companys business operations, provide reasonable but investors and that the Board understands the views of major shareholders not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
on matters such as governance and strategy rests with the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for this purpose.
The main The main elements of internal control currently include: channel of communication continues to be through the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Investor Relations.
The identification and mitigation of major business risks on a daily basis is the responsibility of the executive directors and The senior independent director and other members of the Board are also senior management.
Each business function within the company available to meet major investors on request on relevant topics.
The senior maintains controls and procedures, as directed by senior management, independent director has a specific responsibility to be available to appropriate to its own business environment while conforming to the shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, companys standards and guidelines.
These include procedures and Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer has either failed to resolve their guidelines to identify, evaluate the likelihood and mitigate all types of concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
risks on an ongoing basis.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year Information and Communication.
The companys operating procedures other than during closed periods.
The Board also encourages include a comprehensive system for reporting financial and noncommunication with private investors and part of the companys website is financial information to the directors.
Financial projections, including dedicated to providing accurate and timely information for all investors revenue and profit forecasts, are reported on a regular basis to senior including answers to common questions, comprehensive information about management against corresponding figures for previous periods.
The the business, its partners and products, all press releases and RNS central process for evaluating and managing non-financial risks is announcements.
Shareholders can also access past earnings weekly meetings of business functions, each involving at least one presentations and audio conference calls through the website.
The Board director, together with periodic meetings of executive directors and also receives feedback from the companys brokers and financial PR senior management.
advisers, who obtain feedback from analysts and brokers following investor roadshows.
All shareholders may register to receive the companys press Finance Management.
The finance department operates within policies releases via the internet.
approved by the directors and the Chief Financial Officer.
Expenditures are tightly controlled with stringent approvals required based on The principal communication with private investors is via the annual report amount.
Duties such as legal, finance, sales and operations are also and through the AGM, an occasion which is attended by relevant available strictly segregated to minimize risk.
directors and at which all shareholders present are given the opportunity to ask questions.
After the AGM, shareholders can meet informally with The company has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and directors.
Investors are also invited to submit questions via the companys reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy of the website with relevant answers posted on the website for all to read.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes assessment of A summary presentation of results and development plans is also given at the companys strategic direction, objectives and financial returns and the AGM before the meeting chairman deals with the formal business of the the risks in achieving them.
All substantive resolutions at the companys AGMs are decided on a poll.
The poll is conducted by the companys registrars and Budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting scrutinised by the company Secretary.
The proxy votes cast in relation to process and regular business review meetings are also held involving all resolutions, including details of votes withheld, are disclosed to those in senior management worldwide, at which the companys overall attendance at the meeting and the results of the poll are published on the Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Corporate Governance Report performance is assessed.
The results of these reviews are reported to Any significant control failings identified through any part of the business and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and the external auditor and undergo a detailed process of evaluation of both the failing and the A summary of the key financial and non-financial risks inherent in the steps taken to remedy it.
No breaches of internal controls were identified companys business is given on pages 18 and 19. during 2010 which would have had a material adverse effect on the company.
Insurance cover is provided externally and depends on the scale of the risk in question and the availability of cover in the external Review of Effectiveness market.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Business Continuity Planning.
A rolling programme aimed at improving management, in accordance with the Combined Code for 2010 through to the companys Business Continuity Plan has been maintained for a the date of this report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified number of years.
The potential significant risks are identified and an during this review.
However, had there been any such failings or action plan implemented to enable the company to respond in the event weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions would have been that such a risk arose.
Further reviews and testing are due to take taken to remedy them.
During 2011 the Board expects to conduct a thorough review of the internal Information Systems.
Information systems are developed to support control system as part of its regular review of effectiveness of policies and the companys long-term objectives and are managed by a procedures.
Key enhancements which are identified through the review will professionally staffed team.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in be implemented during the year.
Amongst other items the Board expects place covering all significant areas of the business.
to broaden the scope of the internal audit programme, appoint an internal audit manager and continue to increase the financial capability within the Contractual Commitments.
There are clearly defined policies and finance team.
procedures for entering into contractual commitments, including strict limits on who is permitted to commit the company to contracts.
Significant Risks The company has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been or managing the significant risks faced by the company that has been in place are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses which it has for 2010 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal control.
Principal controls are managed by the executive directors and This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing key employees, including regular review by management and the Board of plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the the operations and the financial statements of the company.
Key Risks Internal Audit Matters relating to key risks are discussed on pages 18 and 19.
The objectives of the Directors and senior management is to safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the company.
Part of this Health and Safety objective requires the development of relevant policies and appropriate Although Autonomy operates in an industry and in environments which are internal controls to ensure proper management of the companys resources considered low risk from a health and safety perspective, the safety of and the identification of risks which might serve to undermine them.
employees, contractors and visitors is a priority in all Autonomy workplaces world-wide.
Continual improvement in safety management systems is The Board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal achieved through risk assessments to identify and eliminate potential control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
As the company has grown hazards and through occupational health assessments for employees.
during 2010 the Board has continued to address matters relating to internal More detail about the companys approach to environmental matters and control and the present need to establish an internal audit function.
In 2009 health and safety are discussed beginning on page 23. new senior managers were hired responsible for internal reviews, who conducted their reviews throughout 2010.
The company has in the past By order of the Board, and continues to maintain extensive internal reporting functions and internal controls and significant executive director involvement in all aspects of the companys business affairs.
Andrew M. Kanter The companys management system documents processes and Company Secretary responsibilities across all business functions and operations.
As a part of 22 February 2011 this system, the finance review team carries out a programme of audits to assess its effectiveness and efficiency, resulting in continuous maintenance and improvement of the system, adapting to changes in business operations as necessary.
34 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
