Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance report Fully committed to the highest standards Good governance is fundamental to the success of ABGs business and its relationships with key stakeholders.
Derek Pannell, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director All ABG employees and Directors must comply with these policies andprocedures and with any additional applicable policies.
2010 Highlights and performance Overall responsibility for the governance of the ABG Group lies As this is ABGs first year as a listed company, the Board focused with the Board, which intends wherever possible to comply with the its attentions in 2010 on developing and confirming measures main principles of the Combined Code and the new UK Corporate that support its effectiveness and strengthen the Companys Governance Code which will apply to future reporting years.
It will internal control and risk management systems.
To this end, the also review other international standards as appropriate for ABGs Board and its committees have: operations.
As part of its corporate governance compliance obligations, undertaken assessments of ABGs key risks, mitigation and the Board is required to explain how it applied the main principles of process evaluation: the Combined Code during 2010.
The relevant statement of compliance, conducted a review of internal systems and controls in line and any departures from governance requirements that occurred, are with Turnbull Guidance requirements: explained below.
commenced the review of requirements for Board evaluations Board composition and succession planning: and The Board reviews its composition and balance on a regular basis.
progressed the implementation of reporting procedures and The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two processes over and above those financial reporting procedures Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors, of whom five are implemented as part of the IPO process.
For the reporting period, the Board considers that this is the appropriate structure and board balance between executives and ABG approach to governance non-executives for ABG to achieve itsobjectives.
ABG committed to the highest standards of corporate governance atthe time of its IPO.
The Company adopted a number of procedures ABG regards all of its Non-Executive Directors other than Aaron throughout the course of 2010 to underpin its governance systems Regent and Stephen Galbraith as independent within the meaning and structure.
These measures will remain under review, and defined in the Combined Code.
The Board regards Andre Falzon as additional processes will continue to be considered and developed to independent within the meaning of the Combined Code although he ensure that ABGs approach to governance is appropriately aligned was an employee of the Barrick Group until 2006 and then provided with its operating environment, its performance needs and its consultancy services to the Barrick Group until2008.
ABG has adopted a Code of Conduct as well as a number of other policies and procedures including an Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, a Disclosure and Communications Policy and aSecurities Dealing Code to support its governance framework.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 73 Corporate governance report continued policies and procedures: and Board composition Board independence changes to the composition, size and structure of the Board.
The Board delegates certain matters to its committees.
Further details of each committee are set out on pages 78 to 80 of this report.
In addition, the Board has approved a delegation of authority to officers and managers of the Group for specific matters required for the day-to-day functioning of the Companys business.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer In line with best practice, the roles of Chief Executive Officer and Chairman and their related responsibilities are separated.
Accordingly Key Key the divisions of responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed Executive Independent by the Board.
Non-executive Non-independent ABGs Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership of the Board.
He is responsible for ensuring that the Board plays a full Board skills and constructive part in the development and determination of the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Board agenda, leading its discussions and Key ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman Geology promotes the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate Engineering governance throughout ABG, particularly at Board level.
Financial ABGs Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all executive African operations management matters affecting ABG and is principally responsible for running the Companys business.
All members of executive management report directly to him.
He is responsible for proposing and developing ABGs strategy and overall commercial objectives, and All of the Directors have considerable knowledge and experience in for implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees.
He is the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the Board also required to ensure that ABG Group affairs are conducted with the to assist ABG in achieving its strategic goals.
Director biographies are highest standards of integrity, probity and corporategovernance.
Senior Independent Director Leadership structure Derek Pannell is ABGs Senior Independent Director.
As part of his responsibilities, Mr Pannell is available for discussions with other NonRole of the Board Executive Directors who may have concerns which they believe have The Board is responsible for the overall management of the not been properly considered by the Board as a whole.
Mr Pannell is ABGGroup, as well as for setting ABGs strategy and monitoring its available as an alternative point of contact for the Executive Directors, implementation.
As part of these requirements, the Board is required to if required, in addition to the normal channels of the Chairman and set ABGs standards, values and strategic aims.
It must also ensure that Chief Executive Officer.
Mr Pannell is also available to shareholders the necessary financial and human resources are in place for ABG to if they have concerns that have not been resolved by contact through meet its objectives.
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors, or where such contact is inappropriate.
The Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance, risk management and critical business issues.
It has a formal schedule of The Senior Independent Director at least annually and on other matters that are specifically reserved for its decision, including the occasions as deemed appropriate leads a meeting of the Nonreview and or approval of: Executive Directors without the Chairman present to appraise the the extension of the Groups activities into new business or Chairmansperformance.
geographic business: Senior Leadership Team mergers and acquisitions activity and material capital projects: material capital raising: Day-to-day management of the Groups business and operations is delegated to the Executive Directors and the other senior executives major changes to the Groups corporate structure: who form ABGs Senior Leadership Team.
This team comprises: the Groups internal control and risk management systems, financialreporting and controls: Chief Executive Officer: corporate governance systems: Chief Financial Officer: www.
com 74 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Operating Officer: In addition to scheduled Board meetings, all Directors have access to members of the Senior Leadership Team and to whatever further General Counsel: information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy their Vice President, Exploration: responsibilities.
ABGs independent Non-Executive Directors and Vice President, Corporate Affairs: committee chairmen meet with members of the Senior Leadership Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations: and Team to receive more in-depth briefings on Board and committee Head of Human Resources.
matters, whenever required or requested.
The Senior Leadership Team meets regularly and is responsible for The Chairman and the Company Secretary review training and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of ABGs business.
The induction training and process for new Directors is under development.
All existing Directors and members of the Senior Board effectiveness Leadership Team participated in induction training, which included briefings on the responsibilities of Directors of a UK listed company, prior Decision making to the IPO.
During the course of 2010, a number of Directors undertook Board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at operational site visits.
All Directors continue to have free access to visit Board meetings.
In exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken operations outside scheduled Board arrangements.
by the majority of Board members.
Questions arising at any meeting are determined by a majority of votes.
In the case of an equality of Directors may take independent professional advice, as necessary, at votes, ABGs articles of association do not provide the Chairman with ABGs expense in the furtherance of their duties.
In addition to this, a second or casting vote.
All Directors are required to take decisions each Board committee is entitled to seek independent professional objectively and in the best interests of the Company.
advice at ABGs expense where necessary to assist or guide the committee in the performance of its functions.
ABGs Non-Executive Directors are expected to apply independent judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and performance and Board meetings and attendance to scrutinise the performance of management.
In addition, the The Board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such committees of the Board play an active role in reviewing managements other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
performance and achievement of ABG objectives on the basis of responsibilities falling within the remit of each committee.
The attendance record for each Director for 2010 is shown below.
The Board met on five occasions during 2010, of which one meeting related Board briefings and development to specific IPO matters.
The Board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports outlining all material operational, financial and strategic Prior to the IPO, Catherine Boggs and Paul Buchanan were appointed developments.
These ensure that members remain properly briefed on as nominee Directors of ABG.
Catherine Boggs was appointed on the performance and financial position of the ABG Group.
Board and 14January 2010 and resigned from the Board on 19 January 2010 as committee papers are circulated prior to all meetings to allow Directors part of IPO preparations.
PaulBuchanan was appointed on 19 January to be briefed in advance of discussions.
All Board meetings include a 2010 and resigned from the Board on 15February 2010 as part of IPO quarterly business and financial review to ensure that, in addition to preparations.
Of the nominee Directors, only Paul Buchanan attended specific scheduled matters and any other business, core operational aBoard meeting for the purposes of resignation.
matters are reviewed on a continuous basis.
Board meetings Audit committee Compensation committee Nomination committee EHS&S committee Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum Number Maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible Aaron Regent 5 5 0 N A 4 4 1 N A 0 N A Greg Hawkins 5 5 2 N A 3 N A 1 N A 3 N A Kevin Jennings 5 5 4 N A 0 N A 0 N A 0 N A Derek Pannell 4 5 0 N A 0 N A 1 1 2 3 James Cross 5 5 4 4 4 4 0 N A 0 N A Andre Falzon 5 5 4 4 4 4 0 N A 0 N A Stephen Galbraith 5 5 0 N A 0 N A 1 1 3 3 Bobby Godsell 4 5 0 N A 0 N A 0 1 2 3 Michael Kenyon 5 5 4 4 4 4 0 N A 0 N A Note: N A indicates where a Director is not a member of a committee and thus not obligated to attend meetings.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 75 Corporate governance report continued Performance evaluation Going concern The majority of the Directors were appointed in February 2010 as The Boards statement on going concern is included in the Financial part of the corporate governance preparations for the IPO.
In view of review on page 54. this, the Board believes that a meaningful evaluation of performance Relationship with shareholders can only take place once the new Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work together.
An evaluation process will therefore be Dialogue with the investment community implemented in the first half of 2011 for all of the Board members Members of the Board and senior management met with a number including the Chairman.
of international investors as part of ABGs IPO process.
Since the Retirement and re-election IPO, ABG has established a headquarters in London and appointed a Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations to manage Under ABGs articles of association, all Directors are subject to and develop the Companys investor relations programme.
The retirement and re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual Head of Corporate Development and Investor Relations is primarily General Meeting following their appointment and every three years responsible for maintaining ABGs ongoing relations with the investor thereafter.
As such, all members of the Board will offer themselves for and shareholder community, acting as the primary point of contact re-election at the forthcoming AGM having been appointed by the for members of this community.
During the course of 2010, ABG Board during the year.
conducted a number of international investor meetings and analyst presentations.
ABG intends to meet with investors and analysts at least Internal control twice a year to discuss Group performance and respond to queries.
The Board is responsible for the ABG Groups system of internal control ABG also conducts periodic telephone calls and meetings with the and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In line with investment community to discuss results, and participates in mining this responsibility, the Board has established ongoing processes and conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
systems for identifying, evaluating and managing those significant risks that the Group faces.
These systems were put in place as part of the IPO In addition to its annual and half-year reports, ABG publishes quarterly process and their implementation has been progressed throughout the reports to the market, which provide further information on production year.
ABGs system of internal controls and risk management takes into and financial results, and updates on its business andoperations.
account the recommendations contained in the Turnbull Guidance on Majority shareholder Internal Systems and Controls published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The system is ABG was a wholly owned subsidiary of Barrick prior to its IPO.
Barrick designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve continues to hold approximately 74% of ABG, making it the Groups ABGs business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not majority shareholder.
As a result of this relationship, ABG continues absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to have access to the Barrick Group for a number of support services and receives strategic shareholder support for its initiatives and goals.
The Board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its ABG and Barrick executed a number of agreements and arrangements review of management reports and assessments and on the quarterly as part of the IPO process to ensure that their ongoing relationship reports it receives on the status of ABGs internal control environment.
was appropriately structured, including a relationship agreement.
The This is supported by the risk profile reviews that ABGs Internal Audit principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that ABG is function carries out to help the Board identify and manage the most capable of carrying on its business independently of the Barrick Group significant risks and events that could affect the Companys operations, and that transactions and relationships with the Barrick Group are financials and performance.
Where necessary, the Board is assisted by conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
its committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly the Audit committee which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness Under the terms of the relationship agreement, Barrick has agreed to of the Groups internal control and financial risk management systems.
exercise its powers so far as possible to ensure that ABG is managed in An overview of ABGs risk management systems and procedures is accordance with the Combined Code.
It has also agreed that it will not provided on page 64. exercise its voting rights or powers which would cause ABG to breach any of the key eligibility criteria for its listing.
In compliance with its obligations, the Board has conducted an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management Barrick is entitled to appoint Directors to the Board in line with and internal control systems.
This review has covered all material a sliding scale that depends on Barricks percentage shareholding.
controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls.
Pursuant to the sliding scale Barrick is entitled to appoint the higher of: Inconjunction with ABGs Internal Audit Function and members of the three Non-Executive Directors and the maximum number of NonSenior Leadership Team, the Board has conducted a specific assessment Executive Directors that may be appointed while ensuring that the of internal controls for the purposes of this report.
This assessment composition of the Board remains compliant with the Combined considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the Code to the Board for so long as Barrick holds an interest in 40% period covered by this report.
During the course of its review of the ormore of the issued share capital or voting rights ofABG: system of internal control, the Board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses which it determined to be material.
Therefore a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
com 76 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information two Non-Executive Directors and one less than the maximum Greg Hawkins, Kevin Jennings and other members of senior number of Non-Executive Directors that may be appointed while management hold interests under Barricks restricted stock unit plan, ensuring that the composition of the Board remains compliant with which are not deemed to be material interests and will ultimately be the Combined Code, for so long as it has an interest in 25% or more replaced by interests under ABGs share plans.
of the issued share capital or voting rights of ABG: and The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to avoid situations where one Non-Executive Director and two less than the maximum number they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or of Non-Executive Directors that may be appointed while ensuring that may possibly conflict, with Company interests.
However, the Act does the composition of the Board remains compliant with the Combined allow Directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential Code, for so long as it has an interest in 15% or more in ABG.
conflicts of interests where a companys articles of association contain a provision to that effect.
ABGs articles of association contain such In addition, subject to certain exceptions and only for so long as Barrick provision and a procedure for this.
In accordance with this procedure, holds 30% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of ABG, the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the Board Barrick has undertaken that it shall not, and shall procure that other prior to our IPO.
members of the Barrick Group shall not, carry on the exploration of gold or silver in Africa or acquire, whether through an asset purchase The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in Africa potential conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are which competes with the Company, unless Barrick has first notified required to notify the Company of any material changes in positions ABG in writing of such opportunity.
If ABG indicates that it wishes or situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
to pursue such opportunity within 15 business days of receiving the In addition, Directors are required to declare interests in potential or notification, then neither Barrick, nor any other member of the Barrick actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such Group, shall pursue the opportunity unless the Company subsequently transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
If a question arises as decides not to pursue the opportunity or fails to do so within a to whether any interest of a Director prevents him or her from voting reasonable period of time.
or being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual transaction, the matter is referred to the Chairman, whose findings are ABG has given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to Barrick in final and conclusive.
In the context of questions relating to any such this regard.
conflict of the Chairman, the question may ultimately be decided by The relationship agreement will continue for so long as ABG is listed on aresolution of the other Directors.
the London Stock Exchange and Barrick owns or controls in aggregate Specifically as regards Directors appointed by Barrick, the relationship 15% or more of its issued share capital or voting rights.
agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement arises AGM directly between a member of the Barrick Group and a member of the ABG Group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of Directors ABGs first annual general meeting as a UK listed company will excluding any Director s appointed by Barrick, give rise to a conflict be held on 21 April 2011 at 2.00pm London time.
The business of of interest between ABG and any Director appointed by Barrick, any the meeting will be conducted in accordance with Companies Act such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly convened 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the UK Corporate Board meeting or in writing by a majority of Directors excluding any Governance Code.
The Chairman and the chairmen of each of ABGs Director s appointed by Barrick prior to the Company taking further Board committees will be available to answer questions put to them action in relation to such matter.
by shareholders at the meeting.
The AGM Notice is included in the documentation which has been provided with this report and is also Save for the matters set out above, none of the Directors has any available on the Companys website.
In accordance with best practice, notifiable conflict of interests between their ABG duties and their the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 business days prior private interests or other duties during the reporting period.
to the date of the meeting.
Conflicts of interest Aaron Regent and Stephen Galbraith are nominee Directors appointed by Barrick in line with its rights under the relationship agreement.
These individuals hold a number of cross-directorships with members of the Barrick Group.
In particular, Mr Regent is Chief Executive Officer of Barrick and Mr Galbraith is Managing Director of Barrick International Barbados Corporation.
These directorships and positions give rise to situations in which these Directors could have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with those of ABG.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 77 Corporate governance report continued UK Corporate Governance Compliance Audit committee ABG corporate governance practices are structured so as to comply wherever possible with the requirements of the Combined Code and the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
For the year under review, this corporate governance report explains our governance structure on the basis of the requirements of both the Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
For Listing Rule disclosure purposes, this compliance statement focuses on relevant confirmations in respect of the Combined Code.
Going forward ABG will only report against the UK Corporate Governance Code, this being the version of the code that Andre Falzon, Audit committee chair applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Members and responsibilities ABGs shares were admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and to the Official List of the United Kingdom The Audit committee is chaired by Andre Falzon.
Its other Listing Authority on 24 March 2010.
Since ABG was listed for only part members are James Cross and Michael Kenyon.
All committee of the year, this report explains how ABG has applied and complied members are determined to be independent in accordance with UK with the main principles of the Combined Code from the date of its corporate governance requirements.
Mr Falzon is a senior financial listing and throughout the following months of the reporting period.
executive with over 25 years of practical financial and management experience within the mining industry.
He is also a member of Since its listing ABG has also complied with the detailed provisions of the Certified General Accountants Canada and the Institute of the Combined Code, save in the following respects: Chartered Accountants Canada.
As such, the Directors consider ABGs Chairman, Mr Regent, was not independent on appointment.
that Mr Falzon has recent and relevant financial experience for UK The Directors consider that given Mr Regents expertise in the industry, corporate governance purposes.
Further details of the qualifications his familiarity with the assets comprised within the ABG Group and of each member of the committee are set out in the biographies his leading role with Barrick, his presence as Chairman is in ABGs best contained on pages 70-71. interests, even though he was not independent on appointment within The committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year and the meaning of the Combined Code.
has responsibility for, among other things: The Board and Chairmans evaluation have yet to be undertaken.
Asall members of the Board were appointed for purposes of the reviewing the Groups financial statements and monitoring IPO, in January February 2010, the Board believes that a meaningful their integrity: evaluation of performance can only take place once the Directors have overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors: had a reasonable amount of time to work together.
An evaluation reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process and process will therefore be implemented in the first half of 2011 for all agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual audit ofthe Board members including the Chairman.
programme: ABGs external auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement which monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom function and approving the appointment and removal of the Listing Authority.
Head of Internal Audit: reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Groups systems of Board committees internal control and financial reporting risk management: The Board has established an Audit committee, a Compensation making recommendations to the Board regarding the committee, a Nomination committee and an EHS&S committee.
arrangements for the appointment and removal of the external auditor and the appropriateness of related terms of engagement Audit committee and remuneration: and Meetings and attendance reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
The committee met four times during the year.
Details of members Activities attendance can be found on page 75.
As 2010 represents ABGs first year as a listed company, the committees The committee has asked the Chief Financial Officer, the ABG Groups focus for the year was on the development and progression of internal Financial Controller, members of the Treasury function, the Head of controls and audit procedures suitable for ABGs status.
Key work Risk and Internal Audit and the external auditor to attend committee undertaken by the committee included the following: meetings on a regular basis.
During the year, the committee held individual meetings with ABGs external auditors and the Head of consideration and approval of the internal audit plan: the committee Risk and Internal Audit without management present.
ABGs auditors met regularly with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit to review and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit have direct access to the and progress the Groups internal audit charter and internal audit committeechairman.
com 78 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information plan.
The relevant audit plan and procedures are aimed at addressing financial and overall risk management objectives, and have been Nomination committee prepared in accordance with standards promoted by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The committee will continue to monitor the effectiveness of internal audit plans in accordance with ABGs ongoing requirements: consideration and approval of the scope of external audit and related processes: the committee met regularly with ABGs auditors to agree the scope of the external audit plan for 2010, overall ABG Group audit fees and the process for approving external audit and tax Derek Pannell, Nomination committee chair services.
The committee also approved the non-audit services to be provided by ABGs auditors for the year  The Nomination committee is chaired by Derek Pannell.
Its other LLP, whose appointment has been approved by the committee : members are Stephen Galbraith and Bobby Godsell.
The majority review of existing internal control procedures and the allocation of the committee members are determined to be independent, in of responsibility for risk management: in conjunction with ABGs line with UK corporate governance requirements.
Further details of internal audit and financial control functions, the committee the qualification of each member of the committee are set out in the conducted a number of reviews of ABGs systems and processes to biographies contained on pages 70-71. progress internal control matters.
It also conducted a review of the The committee is scheduled to meet at least once a year.
It plays a allocation of risk management oversight to ensure that responsibility leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the for overall risk management and review is appropriately allocated Board.
It has responsibility for making recommendations to ABGs between the various components of ABGs governance structure.
Board on Board and committee composition and on the retirement The findings of these review procedures are in the process of being and appointment of additional and replacementDirectors.
incorporated into ABGs risk management framework and were provided as appropriate for discussion at Board level.
The committee The committee met once during the year.
Details of members has reviewed its terms of reference to reflect its responsibilities in the attendance can be found on page 75. context of the review of internal control systems and financial risk management systems: In 2010, the selection process for Board appointments was performed as part of the IPO process.
External recruitment consideration and review of the full-year and half-year results: consultants were not used for this purpose.
Going forward, the as part of this process, the committee met with ABGs auditors to committee will take the lead in identifying and nominating discuss and review the treatment and disclosure of matters identified candidates for Board appointments to ensure that the composition during the audit and half-year review and the recommendations or of the Board retains an appropriate balance of the skills and observations made by ABGs auditors.
experience required for ABGs business and operations.
Non-audit services The Nomination committee terms of reference are available for The committee monitors and approves the provision of non-audit inspection on ABGs website.
The provision of non-audit services is generally limited to services that are closely connected to the external audit or to projects that require a detailed understanding of the ABG Group.
Details of fees payable for audit and non-audit services are contained on page 128 in Note 9 to the financial statements.
As part of the audit assurance process, ABGs auditors provide appropriate confirmations on independence and objectivity, irrespective of any Derek Pannell, Nomination committee chair non-audit services they provide.
Terms of reference The Audit committee terms of reference are available for inspection onABGs website.
Andre Falzon, Audit committee chair Annual Report and Accounts 2010 79 Corporate governance report continued identifying CSR and environmental priorities: throughout the year, the committee collaborated with ABGs management and CSR EHS&S committee function to review the Groups CSR and environmental objectives and initiatives in order to confirm priorities for 2011.
Priorities included: enhancing existing community and government dialogue to support ongoing stakeholder engagement: implementing compliance across all mine sites with the International Cyanide Management Code: and implementing further safety awareness training and incidentreduction programmes.
Bobby Godsell, EHS&S committee chair non-financial risk review: as part of ABGs overall risk management review, the committee received and reviewed reports on a number of Members and responsibilities non-financial risks falling within its remit, principally in connection The EHS&S committee is chaired by Bobby Godsell.
Its other with environmental and security matters: members are Stephen Galbraith and Derek Pannell.
Further details developing CSR and environmental policies: the committee of the qualifications of each member of the committee are set out in commenced a progressive review of CSR and environmental policy the biographies contained on pages 70-71. against ABG strategy and objectives: and The committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year.
It is reviewing security and corruption controls: the committee received responsible for, among other things: quarterly management reports on security incidents.
As part of this review and reporting process, it identified a number of security overseeing the development of strategy and policy on initiatives for 2011, which seek to strengthen and develop existing environmental, CSR and security matters: systems and reinforce the security environment in which ABG reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Groups environmental operates.
Initiatives include: management programmes and systems: further enhancement of site security infrastructure: reviewing the effectiveness of the ABG Groups health and safety increasing investigative and detection capacities: and systems and specific incident reports: continuing the implementation and reinforcement of adherence to reviewing the scope of potential environmental liabilities and the the Voluntary Principles and security systems management.
management processes for managing these liabilities: reviewing management reports on ABGs CSR programme: Terms of reference reviewing management reports on security incidents and the The EHS&S committee terms of reference are available for inspection effectiveness of related controls: and on ABGs website.
overseeing management in monitoring reviews and evaluating emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on ABGs business and operations.
Meetings and attendance The committee met three times during the year.
Details of members Bobby Godsell, EHS&S committee chair attendance can be found on page 75.
Compensation committee The committee has asked the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, ABGs General Counsel and members of ABGs The Compensation committee is chaired by Michael Kenyon.
Its other environmental, community relations and security teams to attend members are James Cross, Andre Falzon and Aaron Regent.
In line committee meetings on a regular basis.
with UK corporate governance requirements, three members of the committee are determined by the Board to be independent.
Further Activities details of the qualifications of each member of the committee are set Activities in 2010 focused on identifying key CSR and environmental outin the biographies contained on pages 70-71. initiatives and on reviewing the key challenges and risks faced by ABGs The committee is scheduled to meet at least once a year and met four operations, specifically in the context of fraud, corruption and security.
Details of members attendance can be found Key work undertaken by the committee included: onpage 75. reviewing terms of reference: the committee reviewed its terms of reference and recommended that certain changes be made to reflect The Directors remuneration report on pages 87-95 contains further its responsibility for reviewing security matters and incidents: information on the committees role, responsibilities and activities throughout the course of 2010. www.
