AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T 58 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 to raise without the presence of management.
In addition, during the year, ROLE OF ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE the Committee Chairman held a number of meetings with the Group Head The Audit Committee is responsible for: of Business Risk and Assurance and with the external auditors, all without The integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any formal management being present.
announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: MAIN ACTIVITIES OF ThE COMMITTEE Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and, unless expressly DURING ThE YEAR addressed by the Board itself, the Companys internal control and risk management systems: At its meeting in February, the Committee reviewed the annual financial Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit statements of the Company and received reports from the internal auditors on function: internal control matters and from the external auditors on the conduct of their Reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for monitoring the audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of judgment in the financial conduct of the audit: statements and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal Reviewing the external auditors independence and objectivity and the control.
A similar review was undertaken at its July meeting when the interim effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant uk statements were considered.
At these and its other meetings the Committee professional and regulatory requirements: also reviewed: Reviewing the Companys policy on the engagement of the external An evaluation of its work carried out as part of the Board evaluation process auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance referred to on page 56: the Chairman of the Committee subsequently regarding the provision of non-audit services by an external audit firm: reported to the Board on this evaluation: Making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the The Committees terms of reference: no changes were recommended to shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the the Board: appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
Any comments received on its 2009 report from institutional investor The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying bodies: any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is The effectiveness of the system of internal financial control and the system needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
for monitoring and reporting on risks faced by the Group: The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys The strategy, staffing, processes and effectiveness of the internal audit website, or on request to the Company secretary.
department: minor changes to the terms of reference of that department were recommended to the Board: The demands on the Groups I. T. systems and the constraints imposed by COMPOSITION OF ThE AUDIT COMMITTEE having different systems in certain parts of the Group: Chris Bunker was Chairman and John Coleman and Philip Jansen were The status of actions taken in response to recommendations arising from members of the Committee throughout 2010.
All members of the Committee internal and external audit work: are considered to be independent.
The Company secretary, Andrew Pike, is The operation of the Groups whistleblowing policy: The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit work, as secretary to the Committee.
The Board considers that Chris Bunker has the recent and relevant financial experience required by the Combined Code see referred to below, and its policy on the employment of anyone previously also the board profiles on pages 46 and 47. employed by the external auditor: The plans presented by the external auditors for conduct of the year-end audit including terms of engagement, fees and letters of representation: MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The plans for the audit of the Bss Group companies at the year end: it was agreed that due to the close proximity of the acquisition to the year-end, the The Committee met four times during 2010 to consider inter alia, the annual existing auditor, , would be retained for this work: and interim results.
Attendance at the meetings is shown on page56.
The The effectiveness, independence, and objectivity of the external auditors, Chairman of the Committee also invited the Group Chairman, the Chief taking into account written assurances provided by Deloitte LLP with regard Executive, the Finance Director, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group to its quality and independence controls, and its ethical standards, and the Financial Controller, the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance and results of a survey among stakeholders: the external auditors to attend the meetings.
When present, the external The Groups accounting policies, forthcoming changes to International auditors and the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance were given the Financial Reporting standards and other regulatory changes and various opportunity to discuss with the Committee, any matters which they wished 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 guidance notes issued by the Financial Reporting Council: makes it more timely and cost effective to select advisors who have a good The Groups policies and processes for fraud prevention: understanding of the Group or the work is of a particularly confidential or The Groups tax planning.
The external auditors should not provide non-audit services No matters of material significance were identified by the auditors during the where either the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair year and there were no material audit-related matters that were discussed their independence or objectivity.
Any assignment to the external auditors of with investors.
non-audit work with a fee over 25,000 requires the approval of the Chairman Two members of the Audit Committee are also members of the Remuneration of the Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Groups compensation policies are compatible with a robust control environment and good stewardship Areas of Work and also that the Committee received sufficient, reliable and timely information The policy lists certain non-audit services where it would be usual to engage from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
the external auditors, such as regulatory reviews and certain tax services, The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the major accounting policies, and the and those where their engagement is not permitted, such as work that would principal assumptions with regard to fair values are described in the Report conflict with ethical guidance to auditors, or work relating to the design of and notes to the accounts.
The Audit Committee reviewed these during the financial information systems.
The Committee Chairman is consulted in year, taking into account relevant external advice, and was satisfied that they relation to any proposed work not covered by the list.
Value of Work Non-audit services require approval as follows: EXTERNAL AUDITORS up to 5,000 no formal approval required provided the work is permitted The Company places great importance on the effectiveness and independence under the list referred to above: of its external auditors and together with them is careful to ensure their 5,000 to 25,000 Group Finance Director: objectivity is not compromised.
At its October meeting, the auditors presented 25,000 to 50,000 Group Finance Director and Committee Chairman: to the Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit together with details of 50,000 and above Group Finance Director and Committee Chairman their proposed fees and how they ensure that their objectivity and independence following a competitive tender.
These plans reflected a review by the new audit partner Formal Committee approval is also required if the aggregated level of forecast see below of the methods used to perform each element of the audit.
fees for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the statutory audit fee.
Deloitte LLP or its predecessor firms a leading international audit partnership, was first appointed as auditor to Group companies more than Reporting 30 years ago.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly to the Committee on fees for to their appointment.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner non-audit services payable to the auditors.
responsible for the audit is changed every 5 years, and changed in 2010.
As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during the year the Auditors were The Committee considers that Deloitte provide a high quality, efficient paid 404k 2009: 338k for audit-related work, and 689k 2009: 522k and cost effective audit service.
Accordingly, following its February 2011 for non-audit work.
Of the non-audit fees, 445k related to work required to meeting, the Committee recommended to the Board that resolutions be put be undertaken by the Companys auditors on the prospectus and associated to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of the reports in respect of the acquisition of The Bss Group plc: the balance of external auditors, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
244k mainly comprised specialist taxation advice.
In accordance with It is the role of the Committee to ensure compliance with the Boards policy the Groups policy on non-audit fees, a project worth 145k was awarded in respect of services provided by, and fees paid to, the auditors.
Audit fees, following a competitive tender, whilst 62k related to work started in 2008. which are regularly compared with peer companies by the Committee, are In view of Deloittes detailed understanding of the Groups operations and negotiated by the Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee.
accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting obligations, The policy in relation to other services that could be provided by the external the Audit Committee decided that it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake auditors, which has been approved by the Board, can be summarised the non-Bss, non-audit related, work previously described.
In addition, 514k as follows: of fees was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The Committee understands that the total fees paid by the Group to Deloitte General Principles in 2010 amount to less than 0.06% of Deloittes uk fee income and considers There is a presumption against the external auditors providing non-audit that the Auditors independence has not been impaired by the non-audit fees services and they should only be selected for such work where its nature paid in 2010.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 AUD IT C OMMITTEE REPOR T 60 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 INTERNAL AUDIT As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2010, the Committee received presentations from the Group Head of Business Risk and Assurance, about the results of work undertaken by the department, and approved its plans for work in 2011.
The Committee was satisfied with the overall effectiveness of the department.
OVERVIEW As a result of its work during the year, and taking into account the result of the Board and Committee evaluation process described on page 56, the Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal auditors.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Chris Bunker Chairman, Audit Committee 22 February 2010 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11
