C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 to parts of the Companys operations or included presentations by senior COMBINED CODE executives on their areas of responsibility.
Individual visits to operational The London stock Exchange issued the Combined Code on Corporate sites by non-executive directors also took place.
In addition to the regular Governance the Code in 1998 and it was revised most recently in June board meetings, key financial information is circulated to directors outside 2008. section 1 of the Code is applicable to companies.
The Chairman has regular direct contact with the executive how the Company has applied the principles and the extent to which it has directors and keeps the non-executive directors informed of material complied with the provisions of the Code appears below.
The Company will developments between board meetings.
The Chairman held two meetings report on its compliance with the new uk Corporate Governance Code in its during the year with all the non-executive directors, without the executive 2011 annual report.
The Code contains fourteen main principles of governance, which are All directors have direct access to the Company secretary and may take divided into the following four areas: independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
The Company maintains directors & officers insurance in respect of the risk 1.
Directors of claims against directors.
The Company is controlled through a board of directors, which presently The Board has an induction process for new directors, which is facilitated comprises the Chairman, three executive and four non-executive directors.
The Chairman ensures that all directors receive Robert Walker having succeeded Tim stevenson on 17 May 2010 is appropriate training on appointment and then subsequently as required, Chairman and Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive.
Chris Bunker is the senior taking into account the need to update their skills and their knowledge of Independent Director.
John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew simon are the Companys business.
They are also regularly provided with information also independent non-executive directors.
Appointments of new directors are on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes and corporate governance made by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
developments, and briefings on the key risks facing the Company, including All directors will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
those identified in the Corporate Responsibility statement on page 48.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and meets at The Board has established five committees: the Audit Committee, the least ten times a year.
It is responsible for overall group strategy, policy on Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee, the Health and safety corporate governance matters, acquisition policy, approval of major capital Committee and the Executive Committee, which operate within defined expenditure and consideration of significant financial and operational matters.
terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website or may be It monitors the exposure to key business risks and reviews the strategy of obtained from the Company secretary.
The minutes of committee meetings the trading subsidiaries, their annual budgets and progress towards the are available to all the directors.
The reports of the Audit Committee, Health & achievement of those budgets and their capital expenditure programmes.
It safety Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee are also considers legislative, environmental, health and safety and employment on pages 58 to 60, 43 to 45, 61 to 71 and 72 respectively.
The Board has approved a written statement of the division of key The Executive Committees members are listed on page 48.
Other responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
executives are invited to attend from time to time in relation to specific matters.
The Chairman leads the Board, ensuring that each director is able to make The principal purpose of the Committee is to assist the executive directors in an effective contribution.
He also monitors the information provided to the the performance of their duties in relation in particular to: Board to ensure it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time to time, the strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: Board reviews the adequacy of this information.
The monitoring of operational and financial performance: The Board held sixteen meetings during 2010, five of which were by The assessment and control of risk: conference telephone call.
One meeting dealt with consideration of the The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Companys long-term strategy and seven meetings either included visits 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 ExECUTIVE HEALTH & SAFETy NOMINATION REMUNERATION AUDIT PLC BOARD C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 The number of board and committee meetings attended by each director in 2.
Directors Remuneration whole or in part during the year was as follows: The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and three independent non-executive directors, and meets at least four times a year.
Its responsibilities include remuneration policy, a review of the performance of executive directors prior to determining their remuneration and the approval of incentive arrangements, including performance criteria.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board as a whole, except Number of meetings 16 4 7 1 3 11 that the Remuneration Committee makes a recommendation in respect of the Attendances: Chairmans salary.
No director plays a part in the discussion about his own C. J. Bunker 16 4 7 1 - - remuneration.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 61 to 71.
Accountability and Audit G. I. Cooper 16 1 7 1 - 11 A review of the performance of the Groups trading subsidiaries and the P. N. Hampden Smith 16 4 1 - - 11 financial position of the Group is included in the reports of the Chief Executive, P. Jansen 16 4 - 1 - - the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director set out on pages 14 to 36.
A. H. Simon 14 - 7 1 3 - The Board uses them, together with the Chairmans statement on pages 12 and 13 to present a full assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
R. Walker 16 4 7 1 3 - The Directors responsibilities for the financial statements are described on T. E. P. Stevenson 6 1 2 1 1 - page 77.
Retired from the Board in May 2010.
INTERNAL CONTROL If a director was unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a committee of The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for which he is a member, the Chairman discussed the meeting papers with him reviewing its effectiveness.
In designing the system of internal control, to obtain his views prior to the meeting.
consideration is given to the significant risks to the business, the probability During the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance and of these risks manifesting themselves and the most cost effective means of the performance of its committees and the individual directors.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of completion of a questionnaire followed by interviews by the Chairman with against material misstatement or loss.
each other director and the Company secretary separately.
These interviews formed the basis of a report by the Chairman that was the subject of a The day-to-day operation of the system of internal control has been discussion by the Board, which was satisfied that the process showed that the delegated to executive directors and senior management, but the effectiveness Board and its committees worked effectively.
However, it agreed a number of of the system is regularly reviewed by the Board in a process that accords with measures, all aimed at further improving its performance.
The focus of these the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board and the Executive Committee receive regular measures was on: reports on specific areas of risk and the results of Internal Audit analysis.
Ensuring that there was adequate and timely review of succession planning If appropriate, these reports include recommendations for improvement in controls or for the management of those risks.
Measures to integrate risk for the Board, including providing for appropriate diversity among nonmanagement processes into the Groups operations, to extend awareness executive board members and for management posts below board level: Improving the Boards identification and review of high level risks to the of the importance of risk management and to ensure that recommended business: improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed and refreshed.
senior Enhancing non-executive directors knowledge of the Groups businesses executives are asked, twice a year, to confirm the adequacy of internal controls by arranging for them to mentor particular businesses, on a rotating basis.
in their areas of responsibility, identify any control weaknesses, and to confirm A board evaluation process will be carried out in 2011, using the services of the accuracy and completeness of information given to the directors and to the an external facilitator.
It is the Boards policy to engage such a facilitator at external auditors.
This confirmatory process will be extended further through the management structure in 2011. least every 3 years.
20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11 C ORPORATE GOVERNANCE 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 The Group has systems and procedures in place to manage and control the risks associated with financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
This includes experienced and qualified personnel preparing the consolidation and review by senior management.
In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the Board has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management procedures, during the year and up until the date of approval of this annual report.
AuDIT COMMITTEE AND AuDITORs The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 58 to 60.
Relations with Shareholders The Company encourages two-way communication with both its institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all enquiries received.
During the year the Chairman, the senior Independent Director and the executive directors, either separately or together, attended a number of meetings with analysts, and with shareholders representing circa 60% of the issued share capital.
The Chairman and executive directors report to the Board on any meetings with shareholders or analysts.
In addition, written reports about the Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
As well as sending the annual report to shareholders, during the year, the Company published its interim results on its website, issued two interim management statements, two further trading updates and sent a circular to shareholders in July 2010 concerning its proposed acquisition of The Bss Group plc.
All shareholders receive at least twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which all directors are available for questions and a short business presentation takes place.
Each substantive issue is the subject of a separate resolution.
The numbers of proxy votes for and against each resolution are announced at the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and are subsequently published on the Companys website.
GOING CONCERN This matter is dealt with in the statement of Principal Risks and uncertainties on page 49.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Company is pleased to report that it has complied throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
