Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate governance compliance The Board is committed to ensuring that high levels of corporate governance are achieved.
This is integral to the Boards overall aim to create a culture The Board which places strong emphasis upon high standards of Role of the Board business conduct, ethics and integrity amongst the Companys The Board sets the Groups strategy, ensuring that the employees, suppliers, contractors and other industry partners.
necessary resources are in place to achieve the agreed strategic This is embraced in Tullows Code of Business Conduct, the priorities, and reviews management and financial performance.
current version of which is available on our website www.
It is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery tullowoil.
This Code is being updated to provide further of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term guidance on a range of topics and to ensure compliance with shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and the new UK Bribery Act.
The Code will be issued after the UK monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls Government has issued the Bribery Act Adequate Procedures which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively guidance which is required prior to the Act becoming law.
The through clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated Company also believes in and promotes a policy of authorities.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the transparency in all its dealings to ensure that shareholders Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for and other stakeholders are treated fairly.
ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved see page 78.
Composition The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, four other Executive Directors and six independent non-executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 74 and 75.
The only change in Board composition during the year was the appointment of For more information on Tullows Code of Business Conduct visit: Tutu Agyare who joined the Board as a non-executive Director www.
The Combined Code In June 2010, the Board renewed the contract of David Bamford For the year under review, as a UK company with a premium who had served six years as a non-executive Director for a listing on the London Stock Exchange, Tullow Oil plc is required further three-year term and in December 2010 renewed the to make certain statements relating to the way it is governed, contract of Pat Plunkett for a further year.
covering issues laid down in the Combined Code on Corporate Subsequent to the year end, the Board approved extensions to Governance published in June 2008.
The Combined Code is the terms of office for Steven McTiernan and Clare Spottiswoode publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website for the periods described in the Nominations Committee report.
In compliance with these requirements, this report describes the manner in which the Company has applied The Directors are of the view that the Board and its Committees the main principles of governance set out in Section 1 of the consist of directors with an appropriate balance of skills, Combined Code and complied with the detailed Code provisions.
experience, independence and diverse backgrounds to enable It is the Boards view that the Company has fully complied with them to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
At the AGM to be held on 12 May 2011, shareholders will be The UK Corporate Governance Code asked to elect Tutu Agyare who was appointed to the Board In June 2010, the FRC published the UK Corporate Governance during the year.
In addition, Pat Plunkett and Steven McTiernan Code.
This new Code replaces the Combined Code and applies will be seeking annual re-election, having been in office for to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. more than nine years.
David Bamford and Graham Martin The Board has considered the terms of the new Code and are also seeking re-election having been in office for three its potential impact on the Companys corporate governance years since last being re-elected.
Clare Spottiswoode is not procedures and will report on this next year.
seeking re-election and will step down from the Board at the AGM when David Bamford will assume the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
Each of the Directors being proposed for re-election at the 2011 AGM has been subject to a performance evaluation during the year.
Further information is contained in the accompanying AGM circular.
In March 2011, the Board approved the appointment of Simon Thompson as an additional non-executive Director with effect from 16 May 2011.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
indd 76 76 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 5 How the Board operates Composition of Board Board meetings Executive Directors 42% The Board holds scheduled meetings regularly during the year Non-executive Directors 58% and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Board has arranged to hold at least one Board meeting each year at one of the principal overseas offices of the Group.
This provides senior managers from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board and to meet the Board members informally.
It also provides the Board with an opportunity to meet a broad cross-section of staff and to assess senior managers at first hand.
In 2010, the overseas Board meeting was held at our Ghana office in the lead-up to Ghana First Oil.
During 2010, the Board met on 14 occasions of which nine were scheduled meetings.
Two formal strategy review meetings were also held with senior management present.
In addition to the Board experience formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Chief Executive Oil and gas 42% Officer maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to Financial Capital markets 42% discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the Foreign affairs 8% Group or their areas of responsibility, and to keep them fully briefed on the Groups operations.
Legal 8% Efforts are made to ensure that the non-executive Directors are briefed on the more technical and operational aspects of our activities, such as the Jubilee offshore development and our extensive exploration programme.
Those non-executive Directors with particular expertise in these areas meet regularly with the Chief Operating Officer and the Exploration Director when they are able to contribute more fully at in-depth briefings.
Attendance at meetings Length of tenure The attendance of Directors at the nine scheduled meetings of the Board during 2010 was as follows: 15 years and over 8% 1 Meetings attended : 11-15 years 17% Pat Plunkett 9 6-10 years 25% 0-5 years 50% Aidan Heavey 9 2 Tutu Agyare 3 David Bamford 9 Ann Grant 8 Graham Martin 9 Angus McCoss 9 Paul McDade 9 Steven McTiernan 9 Clare Spottiswoode 9 Ian Springett 9 David Williams 9 1 This table shows attendance at scheduled Board meetings.
In addition, five ad hoc meetings were held during the year primarily to enable the Board to be updated on current developments relating to the Heritage acquisition and proposed farm-down of its interests in Uganda.
2 Tutu Agyare was appointed on 25 August 2010 and has attended every scheduled Board meeting since his appointment.
indd 77 77 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 14:02 14:02 Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Matters reserved The non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that challenge independently and constructively the performance of can only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed the executive management and to monitor the performance of by the Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the the management team in the delivery of the agreed objectives consideration and approval of: and targets.
As part of this responsibility, the non-executive Directors meet at least twice a year without the Executive The Groups overall strategy: Directors present.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer hold informal meetings with the non-executive Directors Financial statements and dividend policy: to discuss current issues affecting the Group.
Borrowings and treasury policy: Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of Material ac quisitions and disposals, material contracts, three years, which may, subject to satisfactory performance and major capital expenditure projects and budgets: re-election by shareholders, be extended by mutual agreement.
Risk management and internal c ontrols supported by Senior Independent Director the Audit Committee : As Senior Independent Director, Steven McTiernan is available to meet shareholders if they have concerns that Suc cession planning and appointments supported by cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman, the Nominations Committee : Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for which The Gr oups corporate governance and compliance such contact is inappropriate.
arrangements: and Delegated Authorities Corporate policies.
Board Committees The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Summary of Boards work in the year Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, roles and During 2010, the Board considered all relevant matters within activities of these are detailed in separate reports: the Audit its remit but focused, in particular, on the following key issues: Committee on pages 82 and 83, the Nominations Committee Str ategy and management with a particular focus on Ghana on pages 84 and 85 and the Remuneration Committee on First Oil and the farm-down of its interests in Uganda: pages 86 to 94.
Each Committee reports to and has its terms of reference reviewed and approved annually by the EHS with a particular f ocus on the impact of the Deepwater Board.
Reports of the issues considered at meetings of Horizon rig explosion: the Committees are made to the Board by the respective Financial Management: Committee Chairmen.
In addition to delegating certain matters to Board Committees, the Board has also delegated R egulatory Compliance including implications of the certain operational and management matters to individual UK Bribery Act: Executive Directors.
Appointments and suc cession planning this is dealt with Executive Committee more fully in the Nominations Committee report on page 84: The Board delegates authority for the management of the and day-to-day business and operational matters to the Chief Stakeholder Relations.
Executive Officer and the other Executive Directors who form the Executive Committee.
This Committee meets weekly Directors and is responsible for implementing Group strategy and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the There is a defined separation of the responsibilities between business.
The Executive Committee is assisted by the Senior the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Management Committee.
which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working of Senior Management Committee the Board whilst the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for This Committee is responsible for managing the Groups the operational management of the business, for developing portfolio of assets and delivering against the approved budget strategy in consultation with the Board and for implementation and plan.
It meets weekly with the Executive Directors, and of the strategy.
enables the right level and quality of resources to deliver Tullows business objectives.
It is also responsible for Non-executive Directors identifying, evaluating and mitigating business risk as The non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business explained on pages 42 to 47.
This Committee consists and commercial experience to the Company.
The Board of Tullows three Regional Business Unit Managers: the considers each of the non-executive Directors to be Group Adviser Africa, Business: the General Managers of independent in character and judgement.
Notwithstanding Exploration and Finance: and the Group Heads of Planning that the Senior Independent Director, Steven McTiernan, has & Economics, Commercial, HR and Risk & Marketing.
served on the Board for more than nine years, the Board is fully satisfied that he demonstrates complete independence, robustness of character and judgement both in his designated For more information on our structure see role and as a Board member.
How were organised p23 78 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
indd 78 78 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:58 15:58 5 Other Governance matters obligations and duties as Directors, and during the year, Independent advice Directors attended external seminars on relevant topics Directors have access to independent professional relating to the business.
In addition to business updates, advice at the Companys expense on any matter relating Directors and Committees receive ongoing briefings to their responsibilities.
including updates on governance and regulatory issues to ensure Board members remain up to date with The Company Secretary current regulations and developments.
The Company Secretary is Graham Martin who is also an Executive Director and the General Counsel.
He is available Conflicts of Interest to Directors and responsible for ensuring that all Board A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she procedures are complied with.
As with all Board positions, this has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, combined role is regularly reviewed.
The Company Secretary is or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The supported by a Deputy Company Secretary in the provision of Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the company secretarial services to the Group.
The Deputy independence of those Directors who have appointments on the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit, Nominations boards of, or relationships with, companies outside the Group.
and Remuneration Committees and has direct access to the The Board requires Directors to declare all appointments and Chairmen of these Committees.
other situations which could result in a possible conflict of interest and has adopted appropriate processes to manage Induction and, if appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
All new Directors receive an induction as soon as practicable on joining the Board.
This includes meetings Board performance evaluation with senior management, functional and business unit The Board decided that the 2010 evaluation of the Board, heads and, where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal its Committees and individual Directors should be externally offices and operations.
The Company Secretary also provides facilitated as three years had elapsed since the last external new Directors with an overview of their duties as Directors, facilitation was conducted.
corporate governance policies and established Board Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP was appointed as the external procedures as part of the induction process.
An induction facilitator and they conducted a review of the Board, including was given to Tutu Agyare on his joining the Board in August 2010 each of its Committees and individual Directors, via structured and the process is ongoing.
interviews following an agreed comprehensive agenda.
At the Familiarisation and development time of the review, Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP had no All members of the Board have access to appropriate other connection with the Company.
professional development courses in respect of their Board performance evaluation External facilitator interviews Board Directors Committee Chairman External facilitator performance reports feedback Chairman and Board Board and individual Director Committee assessments to assessments to Senior assessments to Chairman Committee Chairmen Independent Director Issues identified Action plan agreed by Board www.
indd 79 79 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued A report on the performance of the Board and the report on Shareholder relations the performances of the individual Directors excluding that Communication and dialogue of the Chairman were provided to the Chairman.
The Senior Communication with all our shareholders is given a high priority.
Independent Director also received the Boards performance There is regular dialogue through meetings, presentations and report together with the Chairmans performance assessment.
conferences with institutional investors and sell-side analysts, This latter report took into account the views of all the Directors general presentations to analysts and investors for the full-year of the Board.
The Chairman of each Committee received their and half-yearly results as well as other ad hoc investor events.
reports on the performance of their respective Committees.
Throughout 2010, Executive Directors and senior management The facilitator also presented the Boards performance report met with institutional investors in the UK, Ireland, Germany and and those of each Committee to the Board as a whole and an France as well as several other European countries.
Three action plan has been agreed.
roadshows took place in North America and in total over 270 individual meetings were held in 2010.
The Group also Overall, the Board performance report concluded that the participated in ten UK and European conferences.
In addition, Board had been effective in achieving its vision, aims and goals during the year, Tullow hosted a Capital Markets Day in Ghana of the Company in 2010, but noted it had not achieved the which was attended by 21 UK analysts.
In 2011, Tullow plans to strategic objective to deliver top quintile total shareholder return.
host a similar trip for a group of global institutional investors.
In 2010, Tullow appointed Scott Harris as its Private Client The performance report identified a number of areas for Broking adviser and a programme of roadshows has already improvement to ensure the continued effectiveness of the commenced.
The Board receives regular investor relations Board.
These included: reports covering key investor meetings and activities, as well Further enhancement of the strategy development as shareholder and investor feedback.
process with an emphasis on more time being spent on considering alternative strategies to deliver the The Group issues its results and other news releases via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
These corporate objectives: are published on the Media and Investor Relations sections That the work instigated by the Chief Executive Officer of the Groups website: www.
Regular updates on building an external affairs function to manage wider in relation to the Group and the status of exploration and stakeholder issues needed to be further developed development programmes are also included on the website.
in light of the issues faced by the Group: Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by email by registering online on That the road map for the refreshment of the Board the website.
The new corporate website, launched in February had been devised and its implementation had 2010, contains additional functionality to enhance the Groups started successfully: communication with all stakeholders and over 500,000 visits That in light of the rapid development of the Group in have been made to the site so far.
During 2010, additional terms of the number and range of operational activities, event sites were added to the website for the Ghana Capital there was a continuing need to develop its internal Markets Day and the First Oil celebrations in Ghana to allow communications to ensure all the additional skills and global stakeholders access to live content.
enthusiasm of the newly joined employees are integrated The Chairman is available to meet with institutional shareholders into the Group and that they are made aware of and to discuss any issues and address any concerns in relation aligned to the Groups culture.
This will build on the work to the Companys governance and strategy.
Non-executive conducted by the Board in 2010 to improve its visibility Directors have the opportunity to attend meetings with major and that of each of its Directors: and shareholders and are available to attend if requested to do so.
To continue the work on Directors training with a greater All of the Board members attended the Capital Markets event mixture of sector specific training as well as general in Ghana, allowing them to meet with the UK analysts.
Meetings Director training, with the Chairman to agree formal are also held with the corporate governance representatives of training and development plans with each Director.
Tullow met with several Socially Responsible Investing SRI fund managers in 2010 The review also noted that each of the Directors and, in and, in 2011, Tullow plans to organise its first SRI roadshow.
particular, the non-executive Directors, committed sufficient The 2009 Corporate Responsibility Report was issued in time to discharge his or her duties effectively.
May 2010 and was also made available in full HTML format Finally, with respect to the Committees, each review concluded on the corporate website.
that each Committee had fulfilled its respective terms of Annual general meeting reference effectively.
At every AGM, a business presentation is provided for the benefit of shareholders.
Individual shareholders are given the opportunity to put questions to the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, and to other members of the Board.
In addition, the Board is committed to maintaining strong links with its significant Irish shareholder base and holds a business presentation in Dublin following the AGM to allow these shareholders similar access to 80 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least For more information on how we identify 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of proxy votes for and manage risk see Risk management and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are published on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
p42 All shareholders are offered the choice of receiving shareholder documentation, including the Annual Report, electronically or in paper format as well as the choice of submitting proxy votes Going concern either electronically or by post.
The Group closely monitors and manages its liquidity risk.
Internal controls Cash forecasts are regularly produced and sensitivities run The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups for different scenarios including, but not limited to, changes in and the Companys systems of internal control, which are commodity prices, different production rates from the Groups designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure producing assets and delays to development projects.
The the reliability of financial information for both internal use Group seeks to ensure that it has a minimum ongoing capacity and external publication and to comply with the Turnbull of $500 million for a period of at least 12 months to safeguard Committee guidance on the Combined Code.
The Groups the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
internal control procedures require technical, financial and In addition to the Groups operating cash flows, portfolio Board approval for all projects.
All major expenditures require management opportunities are reviewed to potentially enhance senior management approval at the appropriate stages of each the financial capacity and flexibility of the Group.
Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed assumption in current cash flow forecasts is that the receipt reporting system covering both technical progress of projects of disposal proceeds from the Uganda farm-down, which have and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has been delayed longer than expected, will now be received in put in place procedures for identifying, evaluating and Q2 2011.
On this basis, the Groups forecasts, taking into managing any significant risks that face the Group.
Risk account reasonably possible changes as described above, assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual show that the Group will be able to operate within its current planning cycle.
Each business unit documents its strategic debt facilities and have very significant financial headroom for objectives and the significant risks in achieving them and the 12 months from the date of the 2010 Annual Report regularly reports on progress against these objectives.
However, in the unlikely event that the Ugandan risks are also reported monthly to the Board.
There is a farm-down process is delayed beyond Q2 2011, the Directors comprehensive budgeting and planning system for all items are confident that the Group can manage its financial affairs of expenditure with an annual budget approved by the Board.
including the securing of additional funding, agreement Actual results are reported against budget on a monthly with existing lenders, portfolio management and deferring of basis.
Revised financial forecasts for the year and financial non-essential capital expenditure so as to ensure that sufficient projections for future years are regularly prepared.
funding remains available for the next 12 months.
Therefore, notwithstanding the above uncertainties, the Directors consider The Board has ultimate responsibility for the effectiveness that the Group has adequate resources to continue in of the Groups risk management activities and internal control operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
The Boards objective is to ensure Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
Pat Plunkett, Chairman The Board receives reports from business unit and corporate teams throughout the year to enable it to assess on an ongoing 8 March 2011 basis the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and risk management.
During the year, the Group Internal Audit Manager reviewed a number of areas of risk and his findings were reported to the Audit Committee.
No significant weaknesses were identified.
The Board has confirmed that through its Audit Committee it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, and considers that the system of internal controls operated effectively throughout the financial year and up to the date on which the financial statements were signed.
indd 81 81 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:57 15:57 Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Committee comprises six non-executive Directors, and oversees the Groups financial reporting and internal controls An important part of our role and provides a formal reporting link with the external auditors.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on is to review the progress of the the Groups website: www.
internal audit plan against agreed annual objectives.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2010 was as follows: David Williams, Chairman Meetings attended: David Williams Chairman 4 Tutu Agyare 1 David Bamford 4 Ann Grant 4 Committee members Steven McTiernan 4 David Williams Chairman Clare Spottiswoode 3 Tutu Agyare appointed 25 August 2010 Appointed 25 August 2010 David Bamford David Williams, who is Chairman of the Committee, is Ann Grant a Chartered Accountant and until his retirement in 2006 was Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
It is a requirement of the Steven McTiernan Combined Code that at least one Committee member has Clare Spottiswoode recent and relevant financial experience.
David Williams therefore meets this requirement.
Tutu Agyare, who joined Main responsibilities the Board and the Audit Committee during the year, brings extensive investment banking experience to the Committee.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial s tatements and formal announcements relating to the Groups The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the financial performance: Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit R eviewing significant financial reporting issues and services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports: the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that R eviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy procedures and risk management systems: for the engagement of the external auditors to supply nonaudit services has been implemented to formalise these Considering how the Gr oups internal audit requirements arrangements which requires Audit Committee approval for shall be satisfied and making recommendations to certain categories of work.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the Board: the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work Making r ecommendations to the Board on the appointment is included in note 3 of the financial statements.
In addition or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: to processes put in place to ensure segregation of audit and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP are required as part of the Ov erseeing the Boards relationship with the external assurance process in relation to the audit, to confirm to the auditors and, where appropriate, the selection of new Committee that they have both the appropriate independence external auditors: and and the objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the Ensuring that an eff ective whistle-blowing procedure members of the Company.
This confirmation was given and is in place.
no matters of concern were identified by the Committee.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Company Secretary and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the meetings during 2010.
The Chairman of the Board also attends meetings of the Committee by invitation and was present at all of the meetings in 2010.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
During the 2010 audit process, the Audit Committee Chairman met with Deloittes audit engagement partner without the presence of management.
82 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
Review of the enhanced whistle-blowing arrangements The key work undertaken by the Committee was as follows: implemented during the year Consider ation and review of full-year and half-yearly results In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the highest ethical standards, an independent whistle-blowing The Committee met with the external auditors as a part procedure was implemented during the year to allow staff to of the full-year and half-yearly accounts approval process.
confidentially raise any concerns about business practices.
During this exercise the Committee considered the most This procedure complements the established internal appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or reporting process.
The Committee considers these amended judgemental matters identified during the audit or whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for the size and half-yearly review, as well as any recommendations scale of the Group.
or observations made by the external auditors.
Review and update of the Audit Committee terms of reference Audit planning and update on relevant The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during the accounting developments year and recommended a number of changes to reflect best The Group prepares financial statements under practice as recommended by the Institute of Chartered International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
No substantive changes adoption of new and revised Standards and Interpretations were required to bring the terms of reference into line with during 2010 and their impact on the financial statements the best practice guidance.
The new terms of reference can are described on the accounting policies on page 106. be accessed via the corporate website.
The Board approved the revised terms of reference.
The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to be undertaken by the external auditors for interim and Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee year-end statutory audits.
During the year, the Audit Committee completed a Consider ation and approval of the risk management review of the effectiveness of external audit, internal framework, annual Internal Audit Plan, internal audit audit and of the Audit Committee itself through a series resources and periodic reports from Internal Audit of questionnaires.
Internal Audit coordinated the review.
The review also incorporated the results of the The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access independent Board evaluation with the combined results and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main presented to the members of the Audit Committee.
responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the The Committee was considered to be operating effectively Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency and in accordance with the guidance recommended by and risk identification and management at operating, the Smith Committee included in the Combined Code.
In fulfilling his role, the Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Committee Tullows Internal Audit function was independently without reference to executive management.
During 2010, reviewed by Deloitte LLP in 2009 confirming the the Audit Committee Chairman met with the Group Internal effectiveness of its operation.
During the year, Audit Manager without the presence of management to recommendations made as part of this review were discuss the planning of Audit Committee meetings and implemented, including the recruitment of additional to brief him on the results of audits completed.
The Group resources and the adoption of updated procedures.
Internal Audit Manager also supported the development In addition to the questionnaire-based review of of Audit Committee meeting agendas with the Chairman effectiveness, the Audit Committee also assessed the with input from the CFO and General Manager Finance.
qualification, expertise and resources, and independence The Committee approved the programme of 2010 internal of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall process.
This covered all aspects of the audit service risk management objectives identified within the Group.
provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on Thirty three internal audit reviews were undertaken during the audit firms own internal quality control procedures 2010, covering a range of financial and business processes and consideration of audit firms annual transparency in the Groups main business units in London, Cape Town reports in line with the Combined Code.
As a result of and Dublin and the main operational locations in Ghana these reviews, the Audit Committee considered the and Uganda.
Detailed results from these reviews were external audit process to be operating effectively.
reported to management and in summary to the Audit The Combined Code states that the Audit Committee Committee during the year.
Recommendations made as should have primary responsibility for making a a result of the work of Internal Audit are tracked for timely recommendation on the appointment, reappointment implementation and reported to the Audit Committee or removal of the external auditors.
On the basis of the periodically.
No significant weaknesses were identified as review of external audit effectiveness, the Committee a result of risk management and internal controls reviews recommended to the Board that it recommends to undertaken by Internal Audit during 2010.
The Group also shareholders the re-appointment of the auditors at undertook regular audits of non-operated joint ventures the 2011 AGM.
under the supervision of business unit management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
In addition, the Committee oversees the work of the independent reserves auditors ERC and the arrangements in place for managing Information Technology risk relating to the Groups critical business systems.
indd 83 83 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 17:17 17:17 Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee The Committee comprises all the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and meets as required.
The Our role is to ensure that the Committee met twice during the year.
The attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2010 was as follows: composition of the Board and senior management has the Meetings attended: right balance, skills and Pat Plunkett Chairman 2 experience for Tullow.
Tutu Agyare 0 Pat Plunkett, Chairman David Bamford 2 Ann Grant 2 Aidan Heavey 2 Steven McTiernan 2 Clare Spottiswoode 2 Committee members David Williams 2 Pat Plunkett Chairman Appointed 25 August 2010 Tutu Agyare appointed 25 August 2010 The Committee continually reviews the composition and David Bamford balance of the Board and senior executive team to ensure that the Group has the right structure, skills and experience in Ann Grant place for the effective management of the Groups expanding Aidan Heavey business.
Such review includes a forward-looking analysis of Steven McTiernan the skills and diversity required of Board members to take Clare Spottiswoode Tullow to the next stage of its development.
This analysis is reviewed and discussed with the Board, the primary aim David Williams being to schedule a progressive refreshment of the Board.
Main responsibilities Key matters considered by the Committee during the year and subsequent to the year end were: R eviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board African profile with the assistance of a specialist search with regard to any changes required: consultancy, a formal process was agreed to identify potential candidates with an African background to fill a Suc cession planning for Directors and other new non-executive Director position.
This resulted in the senior executives: recommendation to the Board to appoint Tutu Agyare as Identifying and nominating, f or Board approval, candidates an additional non-executive Director which the Board to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: subsequently approved.
Tutu Agyare who was born in the UK and educated in Ghana is currently a Managing Partner R eviewing annually the time commitment required of at Nubuke Investments, an asset management firm focused non-executive Directors: and solely on Africa.
Making r ecommendations to the Board with regard to Board refreshment in recognition that both Steve McTiernan membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and Clare Spottiswoode have both been in office for nine years, in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
the Committee recommended to the Board that the renewal of their terms of appointment should be for shorter periods than the usual three-year term.
This was with a view to considering appointing new non-executive Directors in their place.
In January 2011, the Board agreed that the term of appointment for Clare Spottiswoode be extended to 31 May 2011 and that for Steven McTiernan be extended to 28 February 2012.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
indd 84 84 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 5 Subsequent to the year end, and with the assistance of a specialist search consultancy which had been supplied with an agreed role specification, the Committee agreed a shortlist of candidates for a non-executive Director position.
Following an interview selection process, the Committee made a recommendation to the Board to appoint Simon Thompson as an additional non-executive Director.
This recommendation was approved by the Board on 8 March 2011.
Simon Thompsons appointment will be effective from 16 May 2011.
Clare Spottiswoode will retire as a Director from the conclusion of the AGM on 12 May 2011.
Chairman succession the Chairman of the Board, Pat Plunkett, has advised the Board that he believes it is now timely to identify a successor Chairman to lead Tullow through the next phase of its growth.
Pat has been Chairman since 2000, a period of exceptional growth and achievement for the Company.
The Board expects to commence the search for a successor Chairman after this years AGM and aims to make an appointment prior to the AGM in 2012.
Director mentoring the Committee agreed that given their current work commitments it was impractical for the Executive Directors to assume other non-executive director positions to broaden their experience.
However, in order to enable nominated Executive Directors to develop their skills, including dealing with investors, the Committee recommended that a firm of mentoring consultants be engaged to provide such services.
Currently, three of the Executive Directors have commenced a mentoring programme with a mentoring firm.
Senior management succession planning the Committee has been closely involved with Executive Directors in reviewing the management talent pool within Tullow.
This is with the aim of ensuring that there is an agreed programme to identify those individuals who could be developed to take on newly created senior roles as the Group grows, or, who could be considered as suitable candidates to fill existing roles should the opportunity arise.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described on page 79. www.
indd 85 85 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 Directors Report: Corporate governance Corporate governance
