Directors Report: Corporate governance Board of Directors Experienced leadership The Board is well balanced in terms of composition, experience and length of tenure.
Steven McTiernan Executive Directors Exploration Director Age 49 Senior Independent Director Age 59 Aidan Heavey Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board Steven McTiernan was appointed as a Chief Executive Officer Age 58 in December 2006.
He is a geologist with non-executive Director in 2002 and was A founding Director and shareholder of a BP sponsored PhD and, prior to joining appointed Senior Independent Director in the Company, Aidan Heavey has played Tullow in April 2006 as General Manager 2008.
Mr McTiernan began his career as a key role in the development of Tullow Exploration, he had 21 years of widea petroleum engineer, working with BP, from its formation in 1985 to its current ranging exploration experience, working Amoco and Mesa in the Middle East and international status as a leading primarily with Shell in Africa, Europe, the UK.
In 1979, he joined Chase Manhattan independent oil and gas exploration and China, South America and the Middle East.
Bank, where he became Senior Viceproduction group.
A Chartered Accountant, He held a number of senior positions President and head of the banks energy he previously held roles in the airline and within Shell including Americas Regional group based in New York.
From 1996 to engineering sectors in Ireland.
Aidan is Vice President Exploration and General 2001 he held senior energy-related a director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based Manager of Exploration in Nigeria.
He is positions at NatWest Markets and CIBC charity established to develop and promote currently a non-executive Director of Ikon World Markets.
He is currently principal enterprise and diminish poverty in the Science Limited and a member of the of Sandown Energy Consultants Limited, developing world, particularly Africa.
Advisory Board of the industry-backed a natural resources advisory firm based In November 2010, he was appointed a Energy and Geoscience Institute of the in London, and a non-executive Director member of the Irish Advisory Board of the University of Utah.
of First Quantum Minerals Limited.
UCD Michael Smurfit Graduate Business # Paul McDade School, Dublin.
David Williams Chief Operating Officer Age 47 Non-executive Director Age 65 Ian Springett Paul McDade was appointed to the Board David Williams was appointed as a Chief Financial Officer Age 53 in 2006.
Mr McDade joined Tullow in 2001 non-executive Director in 2006.
A A Chartered Accountant, Ian Springett, and was appointed Chief Operating Officer Chartered Accountant, he brings a wealth was appointed Chief Financial Officer following the Energy Africa acquisition in of public company experience to Tullow and to the Board in 2008.
Prior to joining 2004, having previously managed Tullows from many years with Bunzl plc where he Tullow, he worked at BP for 23 years where UK gas business.
An engineer with over was Finance Director until he retired in he gained a wealth of international oil and 25 years experience, he has worked in 2006, and prior to that as Finance Director gas experience.
Most recently at BP, he was various operational, commercial and of Tootal Group plc.
He is the Joint the Group Vice President for Planning with management roles with Conoco, Lasmo Chairman of Mondi plc.
He is also the other senior positions including Commercial and ERC.
He has broad international Senior Independent Director of Meggitt Director of the Supply and Trading Business, experience having worked in the UK North PLC and a non-executive Director of DP Upstream CFO, Vice President of Finance, Sea, Latin America, Africa and South East World Limited, a Dubai quoted company, US CFO and a Business Unit leader in Asia and holds degrees in Civil Engineering and is Chairman of the audit committee Alaska.
Prior to joining BP, he qualified and Petroleum Engineering.
From 2007 to 2010, with Coopers & Lybrand.
he was the Senior Independent Director Non-executive Directors of Taylor Wimpey plc.
Graham Martin # General Counsel and Company Secretary Pat Plunkett # 3.
Ann Grant Chairman Age 60 Age 57 Non-executive Director Age 62 Pat Plunkett joined the Board as a Graham Martin is a UK solicitor and joined Ann Grant was appointed as a nonnon-executive Director in 1998 and was Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director executive Director in May 2008.
She joined appointed non-executive Chairman in 2000. in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading the UK Diplomatic Service in 1971: from Mr Plunkett is an accountant with over 30 international law practice.
Prior to that, 1998, she worked at the Foreign and years experience in the financial services he was a partner in Dickson Minto WS, Commonwealth Office in London as sector, particularly in the areas of asset a UK corporate law firm.
He has over Director for Africa and the Commonwealth, management, stockbroking and corporate 30 years experience of UK and international and from 2000 to 2005 was British High finance.
Since leaving ABN AMRO Bank in corporate and energy transactions and Commissioner to South Africa.
In 2005, she 1998, he has been providing strategic has been the principal legal adviser to joined Standard Chartered Bank as Vice business advice to a number of private Tullow since its formation in 1985.
He Chairman, Standard Chartered Capital companies.
He is a former director of The was appointed General Counsel in 2004 Markets.
She is a Board Member of the Irish Stock Exchange.
Overseas Development Institute and an independent Trustee on the UK Disasters Emergency Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nominations Committee.
# Member of the Remuneration Committee.
74 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p70-p99 AW3.
Clare Spottiswoode CBE Non-executive Director Age 58 Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2002.
A mathematician and an economist by training, Ms Spottiswoode began her career in the Treasury before starting her own software company.
Between 1993 and 1998 she was Director General of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator.
Currently, she is Chairman of Gas Strategies Limited and Energy Solutions Europe.
She is also a non-executive Director of G4S plc, Ilika plc and Energy Solutions Inc.
Previously, she was Deputy Chairman of British Energy from 2002 to 2007.
David Bamford Non-executive Director Age 64 1 4 David Bamford was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2004.
With a PhD in Geological Sciences he has had over 23 years exploration experience with BP where he was Chief Geophysicist from 1990 to 1995, General Manager for West Africa from 1995 to 1998, and acted as Vice President, Exploration, directing BPs global exploration programme, from 2001 to 2003.
He is a director or adviser to several small companies, including his own consultancy, and he writes regularly for journals such as OilVoice and GeoExpro.
He co-founded Finding Petroleum and OilEdge as vehicles for online communication in the oil and gas industry.
Tutu Agyare 2 5 Non-executive Director Age 47 Tutu Agyare was appointed as a nonexecutive Director in August 2010.
He is currently a Managing Partner at Nubuke Investments, an asset management firm focused solely on Africa, which he founded in 2007.
Previously, he had a 21-year career with UBS Investment Bank, holding a number of senior positions, most recently as the Head of European Emerging Markets, and a member of the Investment Bank Board.
Tutu brings a wealth of experience to the Tullow Board as the Group continues to expand its business in Africa.
He has a degree in Mathematics and Computing and is a director of the Nubuke Foundation, a Ghanaian-based cultural and educational foundation.
indd 75 75 27 03 2011 27 03 2011 09:38 09:38 Directors Report: Corporate governance Board of Directors
