Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction Compliance statement The Board of UBM is responsible for the Groups policy on corporate governance.
As a company with a premium listing of equity shares on the London Stock Exchange, UBM is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code previously known as the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the John Botts Code.
Prior to April 2010, UBM was not subject to the Code but complied voluntarily with its provisions.
2010 was a year in which, more than ever, governance considerations for The directors consider that throughout 2010 UBM complied with all provisions companies listed in the UK focused on sustainability and the need to promote set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code except for the composition of the long term success of companies.
The Walker Review of corporate the Audit Committee, which is discussed in more detail on page 68. governance, while not directly applicable to UBM, laid the groundwork for the Financial Reporting Council s review of the Combined Code which places The Board has taken note of the changes to the Code introduced by the increased emphasis on the management of risk and on the role of the Board and Financial Reporting Council, which take effect for accounting periods beginning its chairman in providing leadership and rigorous challenge.
The Board will determine its response to these changes during the course of 2011 and will report on this in its annual report for 2011.
As a Board, we are ultimately responsible for framing and executing UBMs strategy and for overseeing risk management.
We consider the practice of good As a non-UK registered company, UBM is not subject to UK companies governance to be integral to that role and we are committed to maintaining high legislation.
However, the Board considers it appropriate to provide shareholder standards of financial reporting, transparency and business integrity in all UBMs safeguards which are similar to those that are consistent with the relevant undertakings.
As UBMs businesses evolve into new areas and expand into new provisions of the UK Companies Acts.
Specifically, provisions such as pregeographical markets, the issues become more complex and the Board's role emption rights and shareholder information rights are contained in the becomes ever more challenging.
In order to ensure that we are fully equipped to Companys Articles of Association.
perform our role effectively, in 2010 we concentrated our attention on the following areas: The Board We undertook an ongoing and in-depth review of strategy, including A formal schedule of matters to be considered by the Board is in place and is assessment and consideration of risk management.
We reviewed Board composition to ensure we have the appropriate mix of experience and personality around the boardroom table.
Responsibilities reserved to the Board include: We increased our non-executive directors access to and engagement with the Approval of the annual budget including capital expenditure and businesses, through site visits the Board visited two of our largest exhibitions Treasury policy.
in Brazil and India during the year, management presentations and the Approval of the interim and annual financial statements.
We reviewed talent management and succession planning to ensure we have the necessary management resource to continue to build on UBMs success.
Major acquisitions and disposals and substantial property transactions.
The following report describes in more detail how we seek to embed good The Groups system of internal controls.
governance in the Boards activities.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the executive directors and to divisional boards under formally documented authorities.
The agenda for Board meetings includes standing items on strategy and governance as well the Groups finances and operations.
The Board also considers matters such as acquisitions, borrowing facilities and major capital projects as appropriate, and receives regular presentations from divisional management on the Groups businesses.
John Botts Chairman United Business Media Limited 64 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements During 2010 the Boards activities included the following: John Botts did not attend the Nomination Committee meeting which dealt with his own contract.
In-depth review of strategy, having regard to the opportunities and challenges faced by the Groups businesses.
This included consideration of capital Alan Gillespie was unable to attend the July Remuneration Committee structure and liquidity, leadership talent development, and management meeting owing to family illness.
Terry Neill was unable to attend the September Board meeting as he had a Concluded the settlement of a longstanding tax dispute with HMRC.
prior commitment which predated his appointment to the UBM Board.
Approved the full year and interim financial results.
A number of directors were unable to attend one of the ad hoc meetings which Approved the Groups budget for 2011. was convened at short notice.
Approved the Groups dividend policy.
Approved the acquisition of Canon Communications Inc for $287m.
Board size and composition Undertook a US$ bond issue to raise $375m.
The Board has placed particular emphasis over the last three years on progress Reviewed pensions risk.
towards achieving the optimum number of directors with an appropriate balance Reviewed the Groups risk mapping process.
The appointment of new non-executive directors in Received management presentations from eight divisional heads and visited September 2009 and February 2010 brings the total number of directors to nine, the Food Ingredients Exhibition in So Paulo and the CPhI exhibition in with the Board now comprising the Chairman part-time, two executive and six Mumbai.
The Board considers this to be an appropriate size to enable it to carry out its responsibilities effectively.
The approximate apportionment of Board time was as follows: Board allocation of time Non-executive directors 1.
Strategy 42% 1 6 The Board believes that a strong presence of non-executive directors is a key 2.
Finance 18% aspect of effective corporate governance.
Their role is to provide constructive 3.
Risk man agement 5% input and challenge to management: in order to do so it is important that they 4.
Talent ma nagement and succession planning 6% have adequate access to the businesses to allow for a deeper insight into the 5 5.
Presentations from operational management 24% opportunities and challenges for the businesses, which in turn informs the debate 6.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet with 3 divisional executives and to visit the Groups operations around the world: during 2 2010 John Botts, Greg Lock, Karen Thomson and Pradeep Kar attended the Business Leadership Development programme and a separate initiative was The Board has six scheduled meetings per annum and meetings may be introduced whereby individual non-executive directors offer mentoring on convened at other times as and when necessary.
Eight Board meetings were held general management issues to selected business leaders across the Group.
during 2010, including two ad hoc meetings which were convened to consider Examples of this include Jonathan Newcomb working with Ninan Chacko, specific acquisition opportunities.
Board and committee meetings are generally CEO of PRNewswire, and Pradeep Kar working with Sanjeev Khaira, Managing held in Ireland, with at least one Board meeting per annum held overseas to Director of UBM India.
enable Board members to visit the Groups business locations.
During 2010 two In reviewing the independence of its non-executive directors, the Board overseas Board meetings were held, in Brazil and India.
principally has regard to factors such as the character and personality of the Details of individual attendance by directors at Board and committee meetings individual concerned and the quality of his or her contribution at Board in 2010 are set out below.
The Board also takes note of those matters listed in the Code as factors which may be relevant in determining independence.
The Board considers all of Board Board Audit Remuneration Nomination scheduled ad hoc Committee Committee Committee its non-executive directors to be independent.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
Director attendance is shown only for committee members John Botts 6 2 1 of 1 1 Jonathan Newcomb has served as a non-executive director of the Company for nine years, and under the terms of the Code will cease to be independent David Levin 6 2 following the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board values his contribution Robert Gray 6 2 and experience highly, and wishes to retain Mr Newcombs services: it considers Alan Gillespie 6 1 2 2 this appropriate having regard to the number of independent non-executive Pradeep Kar 6 2 3 directors on the Board and the varying length of tenure of those directors.
Greg Lock 6 1 2 of 2 Mr Newcomb will be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, annually thereafter.
Terry Neill 5 1 3 Jonathan Newcomb 6 1 3 3 2 Karen Thomson 6 1 3 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement continued The length of tenure of independent non-executive directors as at the date of this Board committees report is illustrated below.
The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by three principal Length of tenure of non-executive directors committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in a separate report on page 68 1.
1 year Gr eg Lock 1 1 while those of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors 2.
12 years T erry Neill 1 5 Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
23 years Alan Gil lespie 1 2 The terms of reference for all committees may be viewed on the Companys 4.
45 years P radeep Kar, Karen Thomson 2 website at www.
com and copies can be obtained from the Company 5.
89 years Jonathan Newcomb 1 Secretary, who acts as secretary to all three committees.
3 Nomination Committee 4 Biographies of all the directors currently in office are set out on pages 52 and 53 and illustrate their range of experience.
Geographic range of experience of non-executive directors 1.
UK 5 John Botts Jonathan Newcomb Alan Gillespie 3.
Asia 2 The Nomination Committee is chaired by John Botts and its other members are 4.
Europe e xcluding UK 4 4 Jonathan Newcomb and Alan Gillespie.
The Company Secretary and Chief 2 Executive customarily attend meetings and the Committee is also supported by the Group People and Culture Director.
3 The Committee met formally twice during 2010.
The principal activity undertaken during the year was: Alan Gillespie is the Senior Independent Director.
To recommend the appointment of an additional non-executive director, Chairman and CEO Greg Lock, to the Board Mr Lock having been identified via an external selection process conducted during 2009.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and a summary of their respective responsibilities is set out in writing and has been approved by To consider Board succession planning, specifically for the roles of Chairman and CEO.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the operation of the Board but takes experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the size and composition of no part in the day-to-day running of the business.
John Botts is also a managing the Board and recommending proposed changes.
The Committee also reviews director of Allen & Company in London.
During 2010 he joined the board of performance evaluations of individual non-executive directors and makes Songbird Estates plc.
recommendations as to their proposed re-election to the Board following Election of directors retirement in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting The process of succession planning for the Chairmans role was led by the Senior any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the Independent Director, as described below under the section entitled Board previous Annual General Meeting and any director who at the date of the notice Performance, and reviewed by the Committee.
convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he was last appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall retire from Board performance office but is eligible for re-appointment.
A formal review of Board and committee performance and effectiveness was The Board has noted the new Code requirement for directors to submit conducted by means of an internal process in 2010.
This was carried out by themselves for annual re-election by shareholders, which applies for financial means of confidential questionnaires which were completed by all Board periods starting on or after 29 June 2010.
The Board does not propose to adopt directors, followed by one-to-one interviews with the Group People and Culture this requirement at its Annual General Meeting in 2011 but will keep the matter Director, who then collated the results for discussion by the Board as a whole.
under review during the year, having regard to shareholder opinion and evolving best practice.
Areas covered by the review included the roles and processes of the Board and its main committees: Board composition and meetings: dynamics and culture: Conflicts of interest accountability: and risk management and control.
The review concluded that, overall, the Board and its committees continue to operate effectively, with a The Board has established a process to address possible conflicts of interest of positive and engaged climate within the Board, and that directors are generally directors.
Any relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise are required to content with the information provided to them, the quality of debate and the be disclosed at the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, culture of transparency and constructive challenge.
The review also identified a approval by relevant Board members.
number of areas which will be given more detailed consideration during 2011, including structuring of meetings and prioritisation of agenda items, risk profile and management and ongoing professional development.
It is proposed to conduct an external review of Board and committee performance in 2011.
66 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Separately, the Board considered the issue of the Chairmans succession in light of All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they are able the impending expiry of his contract in December 2010.
The Chairmans to ask questions of all the directors, including the Chairman, as well as the performance was evaluated by means of a questionnaire which was completed by chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
all directors and the results collated by the Senior Independent Director.
A meeting Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the results are was then convened, led by the Senior Independent Director and attended only notified via a regulatory information service and displayed on the Companys by independent non-executive directors and the Company Secretary, at which the website as soon as practicable following the meeting.
Votes were cast at the 2010 results were discussed and it was agreed to recommend that the Chairmans Annual General Meeting in respect of approximately 70 percent of issued equity, contract be extended for a further 18 months.
This recommendation was and voting was over 97% in favour of all resolutions.
formally confirmed by the Nomination Committee which for this purpose met without John Botts in attendance and was chaired by Alan Gillespie.
Internal control Evaluation of the performance of individual non-executive directors is carried The Board is responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system out by the Chairman with input from the Senior Independent Director and of internal controls and for reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The Chief Executive, and is reviewed by the Nomination Committee: the Chief system is intended to enable the Group to identify and manage the risks inherent Executives performance is evaluated by the Chairman and the Chief Financial in its business and accordingly can provide only reasonable and not absolute Officers performance is evaluated by the Chief Executive.
assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
During 2010 the Chairman and non-executive directors also met without A formal process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the key executives present to discuss management succession.
financial, operating, compliance and other significant risks faced by the Group.
This risk mapping process, which was in place throughout 2010 and continues in Information and professional development force, accords with the Turnbull guidance issued in September 1999 and is All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, reviewed on an ongoing basis by the Board.
who has primary responsibility for keeping directors updated and informed of The process aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of the general developments which may be of relevance to their responsibilities.
Each business prepares its own analysis of the major Company Secretary is not a Board director.
commercial, regulatory and financial risks which it faces and of the controls in All directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional place to mitigate those risks.
The risk maps and associated action plans are development by means of attendance at seminars and briefings.
A tailored compiled by the respective management teams, reviewed centrally by UBM induction process is established for all directors on appointment: this includes executive management, and considered by the Audit Committee, which in turn discussions with the Chairman and executive directors as well as one to one reports to the Board.
briefings and presentations from other directors and senior management at The Groups system of internal controls includes the following: corporate and divisional level and, where possible, site visits.
All staff are required to comply with a formal system of delegated authorities A procedure exists to allow directors to seek independent professional advice if which is in place for all divisions and head office.
they consider it appropriate to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
No use Further guidance on Group policies and procedures is set out in various was made of that procedure in 2010. manuals including the financial policies and procedures manual, Group policy manual and employee handbooks.
Relations with shareholders An anti-malpractice policy is in place throughout the Group which provides a Ownership of the Companys shares is heavily concentrated in the hands of mechanism for confidential reporting by staff of possible concerns about institutional investors, with less than 2.5% of issued equity held by individuals.
The Company maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, with the annual shareholders by means of a scheduled programme of meetings, which are budget being approved by the Board and monthly trading results, balance generally undertaken by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
sheets and cashflow summaries recorded against corresponding figures for the Separate meetings are arranged where appropriate with the Chairman or Senior budget and the previous year.
Independent Director to discuss specific issues.
During 2010 the Senior Established procedures are in place for the evaluation of potential acquisitions Independent Director who also chairs the Remuneration Committee met with and their integration into the Group.
Monitoring of post-acquisition performance against detailed business plans is conducted on an ongoing basis several investors to discuss remuneration policy: the Chairman also met with by the internal audit department and reviewed regularly by the Audit investors to discuss the Groups strategy.
A report on investor relations, including Committee.
feedback from investor meetings, is a standing agenda item for Board meetings, Major IT and other projects are reviewed periodically by the internal audit and analysts and brokers reports are circulated to all directors upon publication.
department to assess their status and their reports are reviewed by the Audit The Company does not formally offer shareholders the opportunity to meet Committee.
with new non-executive directors or vice versa, but is willing to facilitate such The internal audit department undertakes periodic reviews of individual engagement upon request from a director or shareholder.
The Company businesses to assess their control status and makes recommendations to the welcomes the introduction of the UK Stewardship Code, which it considers will Audit Committee.
The work of the internal audit department is prioritised to promote closer engagement between companies and their shareholders.
concentrate on the areas of greatest risk as identified through the Group risk management process.
The Head of Internal Audit attends meetings of the The Companys shareholders as a whole are kept informed about the activities Audit Committee, which oversees the role and structure of the internal audit and progress of the Group primarily via its website, www.
com, and by department and makes recommendations to management.
means of the annual and interim reports and interim management statements.
A particular area of focus during the year was pensions risk: to assist in evaluating During 2010 the format of the interim management statement was revised so as and managing this risk a working group was set up with representation from to include more quantitative financial information, intended to provide greater management, pension trustees and advisors, to formulate a risk management clarity and transparency on the Groups financial position.
programme and to report to the Board on a regular basis.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Board will continue to review and reinforce its procedures for identifying, Internal controls managing and monitoring risk during 2011 and beyond.
To monitor the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
To review the operation of the Group's risk management process.
Audit Committee To monitor the control environment mitigating compliance and quality management systems risk.
Audit To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit functions Jonathan Newcomb Karen Thomson To monitor and review the external auditors' performance, the effectiveness of the audit process and their independence, approving their terms of engagements, remuneration and ability to supply non-audit services and recommending for shareholder approval the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors, as appropriate.
Whistleblowing Terry Neil Greg Lock To review the arrangements by which staff may raise complaints against the Group regarding financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Newcomb and its other members are Karen Thomson, Terry Neill and since May 2010 Greg Lock.
All To assist in ensuring auditor objectivity and independence, the Audit committee members serving on the Committee as at 31 December 2010 are Committee has established a formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit considered by the Company to be independent.
work by the external auditors.
This prohibits the auditors from performing services which would result in the auditing of their own work, participating in The Chairman of the Board, John Botts, was a member of the Committee until activities normally undertaken by management, acting as advocate for the Group May 2010.
This was not in compliance with Provision C. 3.
1 of the Code as he is and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group, for not considered to be independent.
However, in view of his financial skills and example being remunerated through a success fee structure.
All services provided experience and the fact that Terry Neill only joined the Committee in September by the independent auditors during the year were pre-approved by an individual 2009, it was considered appropriate that Mr Botts should remain a member of the nominated by the Audit Committee, and reviewed by the Audit Committee at Committee pending the outcome of the review which the Board had undertaken the first Audit Committee meeting subsequent to their approval.
A financial to carry out in early 2010.
As a result of that review, Greg Lock joined the threshold is set above which pre-approval is required by the Chairman of the Committee and John Botts ceased to be a member of the Committee in May 2010.
Audit Committee, however no such pre-approvals were required in 2010.
The Board takes into account each Committee members qualifications and The Audit Committee has a structured schedule of matters for consideration experience in their executive roles details of which can be found in their which is aligned with the Groups financial calendar.
biographies on pages 52 to 53 and is satisfied that all members have recent and relevant financial experience which is adequate to enable them to carry out their During 2010 the Committees work included the following: responsibilities.
Reviewed the preliminary results announcement and considered in particular The Committee met on three occasions during 2010 and details of individual the requirement for an impairment charge to be made in the financial statements for 2009. attendance are set out in the table on page 65.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a verbal report to the Board following each Committee Noted and considered proposed changes to the manner in which segmental meeting and the minutes of Committee meetings are available to other Board reporting is carried out by the Group for the purpose of recording and allocating goodwill in the most appropriate manner among the Groups members.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and others invited to Reviewed the Operating and Financial Review section of the 2009 annual attend Committee meetings include the Chief Financial Officer, Deputy CFO, report.
Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation, Treasurer and external auditors.
Reviewed the half-yearly results announcement and considered reports from Although no longer a member of the Committee, John Botts also attends the external auditors identifying any significant financial reporting issues or meetings by invitation.
There is a standing agenda item at each Committee matters of judgemental difference requiring its attention.
meeting for the external auditors to discuss matters with the Committee without Reviewed the Groups risk mapping process and considered specific areas of management present.
risk identified through that process and the action plans proposed.
The Committee operates within written terms of reference, which are reviewed Considered and approved audit plans from internal and external auditors.
These terms of reference may be viewed on the Companys website.
Reviewed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The principal duties of the Audit Committee are: Reviewed the composition of the Committee and its own performance.
Finance and Accounting: Received reports from the internal audit department on the outcome of reviews conducted by it.
To monitor the integrity of the group's account, ensuring that they meet statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements.
This includes Considered post-acquisition reviews conducted in respect of businesses reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them, acquired by the Group.
reports on compliance with accounting standards, appropriate accounting Reviewed the performance of a number of major projects being implemented policies and practices and any changes to these, accounting and reporting within the Groups divisions.
issues, going concern assumptions and anti-fraud programmes and controls.
To monitor announcements relating to the groups' financial performance.
68 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010
