Annual Report and Accounts 2010 at a glance Ultras divisions How the Group operates Locations in: United Kingdom and North America Devolved authority and responsibility Aircraft & Vehicle Systems A differentiator for Ultra is the agility that businesses in the Capabilities Group exhibit in their dealings with customers.
This agility is Ultra specialises in high integrity real-time control systems underpinned by Ultras structure and its management processes.
for aircraft and vehicle applications.
These include airframe With over 4,100 employees in its 25 businesses, the number ice protection, power distribution and control equipment of staff at Ultras head office is fewer than 20.
This gives a and noise and vibration cancellation systems.
The Group clear signal about how it wants the Group to run.
As much also supplies advanced human-machine interfaces and authority and responsibility as possible is devolved to the systems, including those to control uninhabited ground and Managing Directors, Presidents and their management air vehicles.
Ultra provides innovative small power sources teams.
Ultra wants these teams to maintain the agility and including miniature pneumatic systems, propane-powered sharp focus externally on customer requirements that are fuel cells and multi-fuel UAV engines.
Major customers in 2010 Agile behaviour within Ultra businesses is vital.
Flat US Department of Defense EADS management structures are therefore encouraged within UK Ministry of Defence ACMA Kongsberg the 25 businesses to facilitate this.
As a result, across the Group, there are normally no more than seven levels of Major successes this year seniority from shop-floor operator or newly qualified Qualication of the Boeing 787 wing ice engineer up to Chief Executive.
protection system Operationally, the Group is organised into three divisions: Full ight test clearance of the F-35 engine ice protection system Aircraft & Vehicle Systems, Information & Winning, with Raytheon, the multi-purpose bomb Power Systems and Tactical & Sonar Systems.
rack development contract First contract for asis, Ultras innovative acoustic Revenue % of Group Profit % of Group crack detection system 21 24 Revenue 174.1m -3% 44 54 2009 180.0m 25 32 Headline operating profit 23.4m 4% Ultras capabilities across the divisions 2009 22.6m Battlespace IT systems and equipment Order book Sonar systems 210.9m % Civil equipment 2009 210.3m Specialist equipment for defence and security applications Number of employees Military aircraft equipment 1,008 Civil aircraft equipment MORE on pages 22 and 23 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
