Corporate governance Corporate governance Chairmans introduction At Ultra Electronics we are committed to maintaining a strong corporate governance culture.
This involves the Board, through the Executive Team, setting a governance framework within which the Ultra businesses operate.
The central functions are mainly focused on policy and strategy whilst the operational implementation is devolved to the operating businesses.
These are overseen by Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents who report back to the Executive Team, which, in turn, reports to the Board through the Chief Executive.
The Board is focused on following the principles laid down in the Combined Code and notes the key changes which have been embodied in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These first impact on Ultra during the 2011 financial year.
Ultra already follows best practice in key areas so the impact of the UK Corporate Governance Code will not require significant changes to Ultras governance framework.
The Boards role is to provide effective leadership and guidance for the Group, whilst ensuring that a strong culture of internal control and prudent risk management is maintained.
During my time as Chairman I have ensured that the Board has had the correct balance of skills and experience needed to deliver this.
The Board also ensures that the ethical standards of conduct of the Groups employees and businesses remain at the highest level.
In this task the Board is assisted by an independent Ethics Committee whose function is being broadened to encompass all of Ultras operations with a remit to investigate any areas which the Committee believes might be vulnerable.
The activities of the Ethics Committee are discussed in more detail on page 34.
I believe that our existing processes and controls are robust but recognise that constant vigilance is needed to ensure that they remain so.
I am confident that Ultra Electronics will continue its strong record of growth whilst maintaining good governance, a clear corporate strategy, and excellent management of all our businesses through a highly capable and experienced management team.
This will enable us to continue to deliver consistent and reliable shareholder returns.
As I have said in my Chairmans statement on page 7, I am pleased to be leaving Ultra in a strong position.
I am confident that my proposed successor, Douglas Caster, and his colleagues on the Board, are committed to continuing the strong governance culture that has served Ultra so well.
Dr. J. Blogh, Chairman 25 February 2011 Compliance statement During 2010 Ultra has been subject to the requirements of the 2008 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
It is recognised that the new 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code will apply from Ultras 2011 financial year onwards.
Ultra has complied with all the requirements set out in section 1 of the Code except in relation to the composition of the Board Code Provision A.
3.2 and in the succession plan for the Chairman Code Provision A.
These matters are fully explained, as required by the Code, on page 41.
The Group has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the main principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors remuneration report and Audit Committee report.
Roles of the Board The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and direction in delivering the key corporate objective of reliable and consistent growth in shareholder value.
The Board sets the overall strategy and direction for the Group and ensures that adequate controls are in place.
The Board also ensures that the groups businesses behave ethically and properly at all times and that the culture within those businesses is positive and constructive.
Approval of interim and full year financial statements.
Matters reserved Approval of the Groups annual operating budget and its longer term strategic plans.
for the Board Approval of acquisitions strategy and of all individual acquisitions or disposals.
The Board maintains a list of Approval of capital expenditure requests and leases in excess of 500,000. specific matters for which it retains full responsibility and Monitoring Group financial performance and endorsing updated forecasts.
The full list is publicly Major changes to the Groups management and control structure.
available on the Groups website.
Financing plans and banking arrangements.
Key items include: Terms of reference of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and other executive Directors.
Terms of reference and membership of Board committees.
Reviewing operation and effectiveness of internal control arrangements.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Roles of the Board continued Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive are well defined and separate.
The role of the Chairman is to run the Board, whilst the Chief Executive runs the Group.
The focus of the Chairman is on the smooth running of the Board, but at the same time ensuring that key issues are actively debated at Board meetings with the right amount of challenge from the non-executive Directors.
Ultra has been fortunate to have had Julian Blogh as Chairman since 2005.
His prior experience of running Ultra as Chief Executive has provided him with a comprehensive understanding of the way that the Group functions with its largely self-contained operating businesses.
This successful model will be continued when Douglas Caster succeeds him as Chairman with effect from the April 2011 AGM.
Whilst the Chairman and the Chief Executive work closely as members of the Board, the independent checks and balances function of the Chairman remains a vital part of his role.
The Chairman meets at least annually with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, to discuss the performance of the executive Directors.
The Chief Executive is focused on the operation of the Groups businesses.
He is responsible for developing the long term strategy and for converting this into shorter term operational targets for the businesses.
He must ensure that the businesses are adequately resourced with the right people with the right skills to deliver their objectives.
In these tasks he works with his Executive Team through which he devolves the detailed management of the businesses via the Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents and the businesses Senior Management Teams.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board on a monthly basis, providing updates on operational performance and on the future opportunities for growth that have been identified.
Senior Independent Director Chris Bailey performs the function of Senior Independent Director.
In this role he is available for shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers or other stakeholders to approach with any concerns that they feel unable to raise with the Chairman.
In addition he deals with any reports made by employees via the independently hosted reporting hotline and ensures that these are fully investigated and that appropriate corrective action is taken Non-executive Directors Chris Bailey, Ian Griffiths and Sir Robert Walmsley are Ultras independent non-executive Directors.
Their key role is to instigate constructive debate and provide the necessary challenge to the executive Directors.
They are required to remain independent of mind and to provide a sounding board in response to investment proposals from their colleagues on the Board.
Insurance The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers Liability Insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Review of Group Strategic Plan this was a full day review with the Key activities Executive Team who presented a comprehensive summary of the Plan to the non-executive Directors for discussion and critique.
The key activities undertaken Review of acquisition opportunities.
by the Board during 2010 were: Additional meetings to review high value bid opportunities.
Board evaluation this operates on a two year cycle.
In 2010 the Board reviewed its performance as a team.
The key points which emerged from the process are outlined on page 43. Review of Interim and Full Year Results and approval of associated announcements.
Six monthly reviews of Operational Compliance Reports.
Reviews of Health & Safety and Environmental Annual Reports.
Approval of new banking facilities.
Review of Corporate Governance developments.
40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Meeting attendance 2010 Main Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 10 4 1 3 Chris Bailey 941 3 Julian Blogh 10 - 1 - Douglas Caster 10 - 1 - Paul Dean 10 - - - Ian Griffiths 10 4 1 3 Andy Hamment 10 - - - 1 Rakesh Sharma 7-- - Sir Robert Walmsley 10 4 1 3 1 Rakesh Sharma was appointed as a Director at the AGM held on 23 April 2010 Board composition Current Board of Directors Board of Directors post 2011 AGM Chairman: 1 Chairman: 1 Executive Directors: 4 Executive Directors: 3 Non-executive Directors: 3 Non-executive Directors: 3 Chairman: Executive Directors: Non-executive Directors The Board structure following the 2010 AGM comprised the Chairman, Dr Julian Blogh, three non-executive Directors, and four executive Directors including Douglas Caster, Chief Executive.
Julian Blogh has announced his decision to retire from Ultra at the 2011 AGM.
He will be succeeded by Douglas Caster.
In turn, Douglas Caster will be succeeded as Chief Executive by Rakesh Sharma.
The Board structure after the 2011 AGM will therefore consist of the new Chairman and a balance of three non-executive and three executive Directors.
The Board recognises the need, under the Code, to explain the move of Douglas Caster from the position of Chief Executive to that of Chairman.
Before considering such an appointment the Board consulted with Ultras major shareholders who have all indicated their support for such a move.
The proposal has been explained in detail in the 2009 Annual Report.
The Chairmans statement on Page 7 and the Chief Executives Report on page 8 give further insight on the particular qualities that Douglas Caster will bring to the role of Chairman and those which Rakesh Sharma will bring to the role of Chief Executive.
The Board is confident that Douglas Caster is much better equipped to present an informed and effective challenge to the executive management than a new chairman appointed from outside the Group.
The current Chairman, Julian Blogh, is also non-executive Chairman of Gooch and Housego plc.
Douglas Caster does not hold any other directorships with listed companies.
He has been Chief Executive since April 2005.
None of the other executive Directors hold appointments as directors of any other listed companies.
Chris Bailey is the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director has particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Code on corporate governance and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Company Secretary has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Ian Griffiths and Sir Robert Walmsley were the other independent non-executive Directors during 2010.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Balance of skills and experience Details of the specific skills and experience of the Directors are shown in their biographies on pages 36 and 37.
Executive Directors Board expertise Defence, security, energy and transport sectors procurement, engineering, marketing, electronics design, general management, divisional management.
The key elements of expertise that the Board have to call on are: Other industries accounting, financial management, executive directorships in other listed companies UK.
Non-executive Directors Defence, security, energy and transport sectors engineering, general management, divisional management, service in the Royal Navy, government defence procurement, non-executive directorships in other listed companies both UK and overseas.
Other industries engineering, general management, divisional management, executive and non-executive directorships in other listed UK companies, accounting, financial management.
The Board collectively possesses a deep understanding of the Groups core defence, security, energy and transport markets.
This is complemented by its experience and expertise in other industries and other disciplines including procurement, accountancy and financial management.
There is a focus on best practice in other companies and other industries, and the Board seeks to adopt new methodologies when these are seen to be in the best interests of the Group.
This range of skills and experience informs the Boards decision-making and enables it to provide effective leadership and guidance.
Director re-election Although the new UK Corporate Governance code does not come into force for Ultra until the 2011 financial year, the Board has decided to follow the guidance given in the new Code with regard to the re-election of Directors.
With the exception of Julian Blogh, who will retire at the 2011 AGM, all of Ultras other Directors will be proposed for re-election at the April 2011 AGM.
Full biographical details of the Directors are given on pages 36 and 37, together with outlines of the particular skills and experience that each Director brings to the Board.
The Board believes that Ultras continuing track record of success provides shareholders with the strongest possible reasons to re-elect those standing.
Conflicts of interest Each Director is aware of his responsibility to bring any situational or transactional conflicts to the attention of the Board for its consideration and authorisation as soon as they arise.
An annual review of the Conflicts Register is undertaken through a questionnaire designed to identify any conflicts of interest which is completed by all Directors.
The same process applies to new Directors who are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire in order that any identified conflicts can be dealt with by the Board.
No new conflicts were identified by the review that took place in 2010.
Information flow The primary source of information for the Board is the comprehensive set of papers that are prepared for each Board Meeting.
These include a detailed monthly operational report giving key financial performance data for the Group as a whole, for the Divisions, and for each operating business, together with a narrative commentary.
Summary information of the major shareholdings in the Group is also provided together with an analysis of any significant changes and a comparison of the Groups share price performance against its peers and relevant stock market indices.
Subject briefing papers are produced for other Agenda items to ensure that the Directors are well prepared in advance of any Board Meeting so that an informed discussion is possible.
Generally new acquisition opportunities are presented to the Board in person by those senior managers with responsibility for managing the acquisition process.
Other important but less frequent topics, such as changes to the Groups Pension Schemes, are also presented to the Directors by a subject matter expert.
The Board receive presentations from the Managing Directors and Presidents of those businesses that they visit.
There is a focus on recent business performance and on future forecasts and key opportunities.
These presentations are normally followed by a tour of the business with an opportunity to meet employees and witness demonstrations of new products and systems.
The executive Directors make frequent visits to all of the operating businesses.
The non-executive Directors visit the operating businesses as the Board Meetings rotate around the various UK locations and, in addition, visit a number of the overseas businesses each year.
This ensures that all of the Directors develop an in-depth understanding of the Groups businesses, products and markets.
42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Information flow continued The non-executive Directors participate in an annual full day review of the Groups strategy presented by the Executive Team which includes all of the executive Directors.
There is detailed discussion of points raised by the non-executive Directors and amendments made to the future strategy when a consensus is reached during those discussions.
The Board recognises the importance of having a comprehensive view and review of the Groups performance and believe that the existing arrangements are successful in providing the overview and the detail required.
Directors induction and training A formal induction programme is arranged for any new Directors covering the Groups products, services and markets as well as the principal risks that it faces and its governance and reporting structures.
Ultra has a diverse range of products and services produced by operating businesses which have unique characteristics.
It is important that new Directors become familiar with each business and to this end Directors are encouraged to visit the businesses and to meet local management teams.
As mentioned above, Board meetings are rotated between different Ultra UK sites to give Directors as much exposure as possible to each business.
Whilst the executive Directors travel frequently to Ultras overseas businesses, specific opportunities are arranged for the non-executive Directors to visit a number of overseas businesses each year in the lead-up to an annual overseas Board Meeting.
Rakesh Sharma, who was appointed as a Director at the 2010 AGM, already had an extensive knowledge and understanding of the Groups businesses and methods of operation.
There were no new non-executive Directors appointments during 2010 so there was no requirement for a specific induction programme.
However, training and familiarisation with Ultras operations is a continuing process, even for very experienced Directors.
Should there be any requirement for specialist training on any particular topics, for example changes in legislation covering areas such as pensions or company law, the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that this is arranged, through the Company Secretary, whilst other technical areas are addressed when required.
Directors are provided with access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense should this be necessary to help them discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary provides advice and services to the Board to ensure that Board procedures are complied with.
Board evaluation The Board operates an evaluation process in which the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its sub-committees and each individual Director are assessed over a rolling two-year period.
The Chairman is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for overseeing this process, which is carried out by an independent external consultant.
He is supported in this regard by the Company Secretary.
In 2009 the contribution of each individual Director was assessed by the rest of the Board.
This stage was based upon a questionnaire that was completed by each individual Director and also by each of the remaining Board members.
In 2010 the main Board and its Committees were reviewed, using a questionnaire that was completed independently by all members of the Board.
The scope of the review covered the Board structure, processes and administration, together with the distribution of information.
The results of this survey were processed and fed back in detail to the Chairman.
The Chairman then briefed the Board on the key findings of the exercise.
This review cycle is repeated every two years.
1 The question of geographical representation at a senior level within Ultra For the 2010 was debated.
It was agreed that the input of the North American members of the Executive Team had proved to be valuable.
evaluation the 2 It was agreed that every opportunity should be taken for the non-executive Directors to interact with Executive Team members.
key findings were 3 The overall administration of Board Meetings was agreed to be good.
very positive 4 The Nominations Committee process was transparent and had worked successfully for the identification of the new Chairman and the new Amongst points raised for Chief Executive.
discussion were: The current process exceeds the requirements of the Combined Code and of the new UK Corporate Governance Code since an externally facilitated evaluation is conducted annually as described above.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Internal controls In accordance with the Combined Code, the Directors carry out an annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups entire system of internal controls, covering business risks associated with strategic, operational and financial matters, together with those associated with Ultras information technology infrastructure.
Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
In this context the controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of the internal control system that operated during the year are described below.
Control environment Ultras organisational structure has clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authorities, which are reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that they are still relevant given the Groups current size and structure.
Appropriate ethical values and the need to maintain effective controls are communicated to managers and staff in specially designed development and training programmes.
All businesses are required to maintain written operating procedure manuals that are consistent with the control principles and policies set out in Ultras Group Operating Manual.
This Manual was fully reviewed during 2010 and approved by the Audit Committee.
A revised and updated version was issued to all business Managing Directors and Presidents, and Heads of Finance.
This is also made available to all employees through the Group Intranet.
Acquisitions, major capital investments and contract bids above a defined value require main Board approval, with smaller investment decisions delegated to the Chief Executive.
Risk management The Executive Team and the Senior Management Teams of each operating business are responsible for identifying the risks facing Ultras businesses.
The Executive Team is responsible for putting procedures in place to recognise and mitigate such risks.
Strategic risks are assessed formally each year by the Board during the strategic planning process and steps are taken subsequently to ensure that such risks are minimised at all times.
Operational risks are monitored as part of the Groups monthly business performance review process.
Business units produce monthly Compliance Reports which cover all key areas of risk, highlighting situations where normal controls have failed to be fully effective and explaining what remedial actions have been taken.
Such situations are then monitored regularly until a satisfactory conclusion is reached.
During 2010 the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Officer presented summaries of these Compliance Reports to the Board, in January and July respectively.
The Board maintains an Internal Audit process, carried out by Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems control procedures throughout the Group.
The level of risk posed by each business unit is assessed annually.
Businesses with higher levels of risk are audited once every 2 years while other businesses are audited ona3year cycle.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The lead partner of Ernst & Young reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee.
Ernst & Young confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when they next visit the business concerned.
The executive Directors and the Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents take an active role in identifying and assessing potential risks inherent in all aspects of Ultras activities.
This is achieved both through the normal monthly business review process and also through day-to-day management contact.
The Managing Directors or Presidents and Heads of Finance of all business units are required to give a formal written representation to the Board every year, confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their businesses, either in their monthly internal compliance statements or separately if appropriate.
In summary, the Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal control framework on a regular basis.
The Board has performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including the work of Internal Audit.
As a result internal procedures were reviewed and updated where necessary.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a comprehensive system of financial reporting covering key performance indicators such as order cover, revenue, profit and cash flow.
The five year strategic plan and annual budget for each business are approved by the executive Directors.
The Board approves the Groups consolidated plan and budget.
The actual performance of the Group and the key variances against budget are reported monthly to the Board, normally during the fourth week of the following month.
Revised forecasts for the half-year and full-year are prepared monthly for each business unit, and for the Group as a whole, and presented to the Board.
44 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Shareholder communication The Group encourages two-way communications with both institutional and private investors and endeavours to respond promptly to queries received.
Ultras website provides detailed financial and business information about the Group.
Meetings between the executive Directors, institutional shareholders, analysts and other market professionals are held regularly as a part of Ultras investor relations programme.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting, to ask questions during the meeting and to meet individual Directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
Documentation relevant to Ultras governance framework is available for inspection before the Meeting, including the terms of reference of the Board and its sub-committees and the Directors individual contracts of employment.
The terms of reference can also be found on the Groups website at www.
Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at 31 December 2010 Fund Shares held Number % share 000 capital Unit trusts 32,427 47 Pension funds 15,002 22 Insurance companies 4,149 6 Foreign governments 2,417 4 Private investors 2,398 3 Investment trusts and other funds 1,564 2 Charities 438 1 Below threshold 2,717 4 Other 7,603 11 68,715 100 Shareholder analysis by size of holding as at 31 December 2010 Holders Shares held % of Number % share Number holders 000 capital 1-100 159 10 8 - 101-500 593 38 161 - 501-1,000 229 15 167 - 1,001-5,000 260 17 530 1 5,001-10,000 39 2 260 1 10,001-50,000 123 8 2,758 4 50,001-100,000 50 3 3,607 5 100,001 and over 111 7 61,224 89 1,564 100 68,715 100 Financial calendar 29 March 2011 Annual Report and Accounts posted to shareholders 6 April 2011 Ex-dividend date 8 April 2011 Record date 21 April 2011 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2011 Final dividend payment date 1 August 2011 Interim results announced September 2011 Interim dividend paid Board Committees The Board has established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Code, are set out below.
Audit Committee The Board has overall responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal control procedures that are in place throughout Ultras operations.
The Board is supported in this capacity by the Audit Committee, which monitors the internal financial control procedures that are operated by the Group.
The members of the Audit Committee are all non-executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued During 2010 the Audit Committee was chaired by Chris Bailey, who has been a member of the Audit Committee since he joined the Board in January 2005.
Sir Robert Walmsley and Ian Griffiths were the other members of the Audit Committee throughout 2010.
Chris Bailey has recent and relevant experience in a senior financial executive role.
He was Group Finance Director of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004, and was Chairman of the Audit Committee at Rok plc until December 2010.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The main topics considered during the meetings were: a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: b reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems: c monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: d making recommendations to the Board for resolutions to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: e reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and f developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
During 2010 actions taken by the Audit Committee to discharge its duties included: Received and reviewed the Internal Audit Reports prepared by Ernst and Young and received the reports on the responses by the Groups management to the findings in those Internal Audit Reports.
Reviewed the Policy on the engagement of the external Auditors and considered the extent to which the external auditors had performed non-audit services for the company.
Received representations from management on their knowledge of any fraud with the Company and made representations to the external Auditors of the Committees knowledge of any fraud within the Company.
Evaluated the performance of the external Auditors and considered whether the external Auditors should be reappointed.
Reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts for 2009 and recommended to the Board that these should be approved.
Reviewed the financial status of the Group as at 26 February 2010 and recommended to the Board that the Group should be treated as a Going Concern for the purposes of preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2009.
Received the report of the external Auditors of the audit of the Annual Report and Accounts for 2009.
Received the letter to management prepared by the external auditors containing recommendations for the Group to consider following the 2009 Audit together with managements responses to those recommendations.
Received and approved a plan from the external auditors for the scope of the external audit of the Groups accounts for the 2010 financial year.
Received and approved a plan from the internal Auditors for a programme of visits to selected operating businesses during 2011, together with a scope of the work to be covered during those audit visits.
Received from the Group Finance Director a draft revised version of the Group Operating Manual containing detailed financial operating policies, procedures and authorisation limits.
This was approved for issue to all the Groups businesses for them to implement immediately.
Agreed the level of fees to be paid to the external Auditors for their work on the Interim and Final Accounts for 2010.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee has reviewed the public interest disclosure process which was strengthened during 2010 through the engagement of an independent party to provide a point of contact for employees.
Employee concerns are forwarded directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or, in the case of issues covered by US security legislation, to the Chairman of the Security Committee of either Ultras Special Security Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board company, whichever is relevant.
Since the hotline was launched there have been four reports submitted three in 2010.
These were fully investigated and appropriate action taken when required.
It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP, Ultras external Auditors, are restricted to regulatory reporting, consultancy services associated with financial restructuring, responding to new reporting requirements, due diligence assessments of potential acquisitions and minor tax consultancy work.
The Audit Committee has decided that any individual assignments with an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 will be referred in advance to the Chairman of the Audit Committee for his approval.
In connection with due diligence work and tax consultancy, the Board believes that the auditors familiarity with Ultras accounting practices and the techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term contracting activities serves them well in carrying out such work.
46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Audit Committee continued The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte LLP on the Ultra audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
This is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
Mark Mullins, currently the Deloitte Lead Client Service and Audit Partner, will hand over his responsibility for Ultra at the conclusion of the 2010 Audit.
He will be succeeded by Kerr Mitchell.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The committee has a policy formally to review the selection of external auditors, including consideration of whether a tender process is appropriate.
The Committee, following its annual review, is satisfied that Deloitte, who were last re-appointed on 23 April 2010, continue to provide an effective audit service and has recommended to the Board that they be re-appointed.
Accordingly, a resolution to re-appoint Deloitte will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of non-audit services are shown in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises the non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive.
During 2010 the majority of members of the Committee were independent non-executive Directors.
Julian Blogh was the Chairman of the Committee.
This constitution will change with effect from the April 2011 AGM when the Chairman and the Chief Executive will cease to be members of the Committee, which will then comprise solely non-executive Directors.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review all main Board and Committee appointments.
Ultra operates a well established succession planning process.
This year it has been renamed the Organisation, Succession and Development Plan, with the addition of Development to stress Ultras commitment to equip its people with the key skills and knowledge that they need to progress.
Succession planning starts within the operating businesses where key individuals are identified by Managing Directors and Presidents with the assistance of their HR teams.
These plans are consolidated at Divisional level and are further reviewed by Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents.
Finally there is an overall review by the Chief Executive assisted by the Group Human Resources Director.
Through this process successors for key individuals are identified, with high flyers being identified for management development programmes.
The plans identify where no suitable successor exists in which cases specific development or recruitment actions are initiated.
At Board level successors are identified for each of the executive Director positions.
During 2010 the Committee met once to consider the succession plan for the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive.
As is consistent with the Combined Code, the meeting was not chaired by the Group Chairman, but was instead chaired by Chris Bailey, Senior Independent Director.
The Committee agreed to recommend to the Board at the February 2011 Board Meeting that Douglas Caster should succeed Julian Blogh as Chairman with effect from the April 2011 AGM and that Rakesh Sharma should be appointed as Chief Executive from the same date.
Remuneration Committee During 2010 Chris Bailey was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Robert Walmsley and Ian Griffiths were the other Committee members during the year.
The Committee met three times during the year.
It is responsible for evaluating the performance of the executive Directors, including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman being present to agree his remuneration.
The Directors remuneration report is included on page 49, together with details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It will be presented for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
Statement of going concern Ultras banking facilities amount to 210m in total, plus a 15m overdraft.
They were established in two tranches.
The first tranche comprises 120m of revolving credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars, Canadian dollars, Australian dollars and Euros.
This facility was signed in February 2010 and expires in September 2013.
The facility is provided by a club of five banks.
The second tranche provides a further 90m of revolving credit.
This was signed in January 2011 with six banks and is set to expire in January 2016.
Both facilities have the same covenants.
As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the banking facilities are also used for other balance sheet and operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day working capital requirements.
The US and Canadian dollar borrowings also represent natural hedges against assets denominated in these currencies.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met during the past year with a comfortable margin.
The approved Group budget for 2011 and strategic plan for later years give confidence that the Group will continue to meet these covenants.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity risk can be found in note 23 Financial Instruments and Financial Risk Management.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Statement of going concern continued Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain, the long-term nature of Ultras business and its positioning in attractive sectors of its markets, taken together with the Groups forward order book provide a satisfactory level of confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
At the beginning of 2011 Ultra had firm orders in place for about 60% of analysts consensus forecast sales in the year.
As a consequence the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to mitigate any material adverse consequences of the current economic conditions.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Ultra has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt a going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Directors responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board, D. Caster, Chief Executive P. Dean, Finance Director 25 February 2011 48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
