Report of the Directors Governance Corporate governance Unilever recognises the importance of good corporate governance and behaviour, and this has been a primary focus for the Boards.
Michael Treschow Michael Treschow, Chairman Our Governance Structure and the Boards Introduction However, they remain separate legal entities with different Unilever is subject to various corporate governance shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange requirements and best practice codes, the most relevant being listings.
Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares those in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United ofone for the shares of the other.
As stated in our Code of Business Principles, Unilever will conduct its operations in accordance with internationally NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accepted principles of good corporate governance.
It is accounting principles, and pay dividends to their respective therefore Unilevers practice to comply where practicable with shareholders on an equalised basis.
NV and PLC and their the best practice represented by the aggregate of these best group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the practice codes.
purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented by both The Dual Structure NVand PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, together with their group companies, have operated as nearly NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the aspracticable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by business activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries aseries of agreements between NV and PLC the Foundation around the world.
Shares in group companies may ultimately Agreements, further described on page 51, together with beheld wholly by either NV or PLC or by the two companies special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
NV shareholders PLC shareholders Directors NV Equalisation and other agreements PLC NV Owned Operating Companies Jointly Owned Operating Companies PLC Owned Operating Companies Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Report of the Directors Governance Our Governance Structure and the Boards continued The Boards Board meetings The Boards are responsible for the long-term success of Unilever There is a minimum of five meetings held throughout the andare accountable to their respective shareholders for the calendar year.
These are comprised of quarterly meetings, performance of the business.
toconsider the results statements of the Group, and a meeting toapprove the Annual Report and Accounts.
Board meetings It is of profound significance for Unilever, with its dual structure arealso held to discuss matters such as Group strategic issues of two parent companies and two different shareholder and the Financial Plan.
constituencies, that it is able to operate effectively asa single economic entity.
This objective is achieved by securing unity In addition to the above, our Boards will consider during the year ofmanagement of NV and PLC.
important corporate events and actions, such as: It has always been a requirement of Unilever that the same oversight of the performance of the business: people be on the Boards of the two parent companies.
This review of risks and controls: ensures that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single authorisation of major transactions: intellect, reaching the same conclusions on the same set of declaration of dividends: factssave where specific local factors apply.
It is essential that in convening of shareholders meetings: reaching the same decisions the NV and PLC Boards identify and nominations for Board appointments: resolve any potential conflicts of interest between NV and PLC.
approval of Board remuneration policy: review of the functioning of the Boards and their This is of significance both to the strategic and the day-to-day Committees:and operation of Unilever.
It ensures that Unilever achieves the Corporate Social Responsibility.
substance of a single parent group but without the form.
Our risk management approach and associated systems of The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors internal control are of upmost importance to the Boards and and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
The Boards have aredescribed further on pages 33 to 39. ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, direction and performance and long-term success of our business Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or as a whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is collective, taking Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and withone or two off-site Board meetings a year.
Board induction, training and support The Boards are responsible for the overall conduct of the Group, Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors including the management, direction and performance of NV and Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their PLC.
The Boards have, with the exception of certain matters responsibilities and the business.
Ongoing training is provided which are reserved for them, delegated the operational running forDirectors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated of the Group to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive updates, and teach-ins at Board or Board Committee meetings Officer is responsible to the Boards as a whole, and is in turn able on, among other things, Unilevers business, environmental, to sub-delegate any of his powers and discretions.
Matters socialand corporate governance, regulatory developments and reserved for the Boards include structural and constitutional investor relations matters.
In 2010, Board meetings were held at matters, corporate governance, approval of dividends, approval the offices of Unilever in both So Paulo in Brazil and Hamburg of overall strategy for the Group and approval of significant inGermany.
In both locations the Boards visited Unilever factories transactions or arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, and learnt more about the supply chain in both these regions, joint ventures and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, and in Brazil included customer visits to local retail outlets.
Visits litigation, financing and pensions.
such as these allow the Non-Executive Directors to meet senior managers around Unilevers global business and in turn allow The Boards have also established committees whose actions are them to gaina deeper understanding of the business.
regularly reported toand monitored by the Boards, and these are described on pages 47 and 48.
Further details of how our Boards A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate toseek independent advice at Unilevers expense.
their authorities, are set out in the document entitled TheGovernanceof Unilever, which can be found at www.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance Board evaluation Appointment of Directors The Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior Directors are normally appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards All existing Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves formally assess theirown performance, with the aim of helping for re-election every year, and shareholders vote to re-appoint to improve the effectiveness of the Boards and their Committees.
them by a simple majority vote.
A list of our current Directors The evaluation process consists of an internal exercise performed andthe periods during which they have served as such is set annually with an independent third-party evaluation carried outon page 40. outwhen the Boards consider appropriate.
The last time an independent third-party evaluation was carried out was in 2006.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain The Boards have acknowledged the recommendation of the provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC newUK Corporate Governance Code to conduct an external shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election board evaluation at least once every three years and have as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure determined toconduct their 2011 evaluation process using operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers anindependent external third-party consultant.
thenintend to continue to conduct annual evaluations with anevaluation facilitated by an independent third-party Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its consultantat least once every three years.
individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends toeach Board a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs The internal evaluation process includes an extensive bespoke ofboth NV and PLC.
In addition, shareholders are able to and confidential questionnaire for all Directors to complete.
nominate Directors, and to do so they must put a resolution Thedetailed questionnaire invites comments on a number of toboth AGMs in line with local requirements.
However, in order areas, including board responsibility, performance, operations, to ensure that the Boards remain identical, anyone being elected effectiveness, training and knowledge.
In addition, each year the asa Director of NV must also be elected as a Director of PLC Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance and andvice versa.
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to contribution of each Director, including an interview with each.
both companies then he or she will be unable to take their place The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is led by the on either Board.
Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director and the Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer, both by means The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing of confidential, bespoke questionnaires.
Committees of the Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the Boards evaluate themselves annually under supervision of their caseof NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective numbered 1 to 2,400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the Committee members and theBoards.
The NV special ordinary shares may only betransferred to one or more other holders of such Action taken in 2010 shares.
Thejointholders of both the NV special ordinary shares Following the 2009 evaluations, the Boards agreed to an enhanced and the PLCdeferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Board training programme in 2010 that would concentrate on Limited, whichare joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The Boards further instruction and familiarisation with Unilever and its ofN.
V. Elma andUnited Holdings Limited comprise the members businesses, and this has been achieved via formal knowledge of theNomination Committee, which comprise Non-Executive sessions for the Non-Executive Directors on Unilevers operations.
In addition, Directors were, and continue to be, actively encouraged toattend events of importance in Unilevers calendar Group Secretary such asInvestor Relations seminars.
The Group Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring that Unilevers governance framework remains fit for purpose at all 2010 process and recommendations times and is subject to regular review, and has a key role to play In 2010 the results of the various evaluations were discussed in facilitating the effective functioning of the Boards, advising bythe Boards to address any issues or areas for improvement.
ofany improvements and initiatives which could add value The results of the 2010 Board evaluation were summarised in tothegovernance of the Group.
The Group Secretary is available apresentation by the Chairman at its meeting in December.
to advise all Directors and ensure that Board procedures are Comparison was made with the 2009 Board evaluation results, complied with.
and in general, the results showed an improvement in scores from the 2009 process indicating that the Directors considered The Group Secretary works with the Chairman and Chief Executive that no major changes were required toBoard and Committee Officer to facilitate the timely presentation of board information processes.
The overall conclusion was that individual Directors inorder to aid their deliberations and decision making, whilst continue to be satisfied that the Boards work well, and function ensuring that the Boards time is used effectively and is focused efficiently during the year, and that all the Directors continue to onrelevant issues.
contribute effectively and demonstrate full commitment to their duties.
The Boards have the power to appoint and remove the Group Secretary.
The current Group Secretary is Tonia Lovell, who There were however various recommendations of opportunities replaced Steve Williams in that role in July 2010. for enhancement in certain areas.
Notably, going forward, Board meetings will be organised to ensure there is sufficient time to allow for greater contributions from the Non-Executive Directors.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Report of the Directors Governance   Our Directors Board changes Non-Executive Directors ThecurrentDirectors, withtheirbiographies, areshownon page40.
,  betweenDirectors,  , and  LouiseFresco, AnnFudge, CharlesGolden, ByronGrote, Hixonia  Nyasulu, KeesStorm, MichaelTreschow, JeroenvanderVeerand .
 Executive Directors 2  Independent effectivenessasateam,  Non-Executive Directors 10  Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors 0 .
0-3 years 6 Senior Independent Director 3-6 years 5  6-9 years 1 .
Male 9 Female 3 44  Report of the Directors Governance Non-Executive Directors The UK Combined Code suggests that length of tenure is a The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility for the factor to consider when determining independence ofa execution of the Boards duties, taking into account their specific Non-Executive Director.
The UK Combined Code also provides responsibilities, which are essentially supervisory.
In particular, that aNon-Executive Director who serves more than six years they comprise the principal external presence in the governance should be subject to particularly rigorous review, and if more than of Unilever, and provide a strong independent element.
nine years should be subject to annual re-election.
However, it is Unilevers standard practice for all Directors to seek re-election Role and Responsibilities annually.
The key elements of the role and responsibilities of our Non-Executive Directors are: Following the conclusion of a thorough review of all relevant relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive Officer: connected persons, our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive developing strategy with the Chief Executive Officer: Directors to be independent of Unilever.
A number of scrutiny of performance of the business and relationships, such as non-executive directorships, exist between : various of our Non-Executive Directors and companies that oversight of risks and controls: provide banking, insurance or financial advisory services to reporting of performance: Unilever.
Our Boards considered in each case the number of other remuneration of and succession planning for Executive companies that also provide or could readily provide such services Directors: and to Unilever, the significance to those companies of the services governance and compliance.
they provide to Unilever, the roles ofthe Non-Executive Directors within those companies and thesignificance of those roles to our Our Non-Executive Directors are chosen for their broad and Non-Executive Directors.
relevant experience and international outlook, as well as for their independence.
They form the Audit Committee, the Nomination The Boards concluded that none of these relationships impact Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate theindependence of the Non-Executive Directors concerned, Responsibility and Reputation Committee, and the roles and andhave satisfied themselves that the services provided by membership of these Board committees are described below.
Barloworld Limited, of which Hixonia Nyasulu is a director, In consultation with the Nomination Committee, the Boards toUnilever South Africa is not material.
The Boards also gave review both the adequacy of succession planning processes special consideration to the position of Jeroen van der Veer and succession planning itself at both Board and UExlevel.
following his appointment as supervisory director of ING Group, The profile set by the Boards for the Non-Executive Directors holder of a large number of preference shares in NV and with provides guiding principles for the composition of the Unilever whom Unilever has a commercial relationship.
The Boards Boards in line with the recommendations of applicable concluded that Mr van der Veer continues to demonstrate the governance regulations and best practice, and takes into essential characteristics of independence.
accountthe balance of skills, knowledge and experience ontheBoards.
Theprofile set by the Boards for the None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed Non-Executive Directors andthe schedule used for orderly under any arrangement or understanding with any major  on our website at shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Remuneration Meetings The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Chairman atthe AGMs in 2007, and is reported on page 67.
We do not to consider specific agenda items and wide-ranging business grant our Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or matters of relevance to the Group.
guarantees norare they entitled to any severance payments.
Inaddition, the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman Details of theengagement of our Non-Executive Directors usually meet before each Board meeting with the Chief Executive canbeseen onthe Unilever website at Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, other senior executives and www.
Tenure Independence Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election Taking into account the role of Non-Executive Directors, which each year at the AGMs.
Although the Dutch Corporate isessentially supervisory, and the fact that they make up the key Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a Committees of the Boards, it is important that our Non-Executive maximum of twelve years for Non-Executive Directors, they Directors can be considered to be independent.
Our definition of normally serve for a maximum of nine years in accordance independence for Directors is set out in the document entitled withthe UK Combined Code.
Theirnomination for re-election The Governance of Unilever, and is derived from the applicable issubject to continued good performance which is evaluated by definitions in use in the Netherlands, the UKand the US.
the Boards, based on therecommendations of the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee carefully considers eachnomination forre-appointment.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Report of the Directors Governance Our Directors continued Other appointments Director matters Non-Executive Directors may serve on boards of other companies, provided such service does not involve a conflict of interest or Conflicts of interest restrict their ability to discharge their duties to Unilever.
We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest between NV and PLC and their Directors.
The Boards are Executive Directors responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid conflicts of interest by Board members.
Conflicts of interest Chief Executive Officer areunderstood not to include transactions and other activities The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to determine which between companies in the Unilever Group.
duties regarding theoperational management of the companies and their business enterprises will be carried out under his Authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the responsibility, by one ormore Executive Directors or by one or relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of more other persons.
Thisprovides a basis for the Unilever PLC.
The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping Executive team UEx that ischaired by and reports to the Chief Unilever information confidential and to the exclusion from Executive Officer.
For UEx members biographies see page 40. receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings.
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part Executive Directors of the determination of Director independence, and in between During 2010, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief those reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who were also relevant changes to the situation.
A Director may not vote on, members of UEx, and are full-time employees of Unilever.
orbe counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of theBoards in respect of any contract in which he or she has The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at amaterial interest.
The procedures that Unilever have put in theAGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully placeto deal with conflicts of interest have operated effectively.
considers each nomination for re-appointment.
Executive Directors stop holding executive office on ceasing to be Directors.
The Various formal matters Remuneration Committee takes the view that the entitlement The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not ofthe Executive Directors to the security of twelve months notice limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have of termination of employment is in line with both the practice the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the ofmany comparable companies and the entitlement of other adjusted capital and reserves of PLC, as defined in its Articles senior executives within Unilever.
It is our policy to set the level ofAssociation, without the approval of shareholders any ofseverance payments for Executive Directors at no more than exceptions requiring an ordinary resolution.
oneyears salary, unless the Boards, at the proposal of the Remuneration Committee, find this manifestly unreasonable The Articles of Association of NV and PLC do not require given the circumstances or unless dictated by applicable law.
Directors of NV or Directors of PLC to hold shares in NV or PLC.
However, the remuneration arrangements applicable to our We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans Executive Directors require them to build and retain a personal orguarantees.
There are no family relationships between any of our Executive Indemnification Directors, other key management personnel or Non-Executive Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is Directors, and none of our Executive Directors or other key provided for in Article 19 of NVs Articles of Association.
The management personnel are elected or appointed under any power to indemnify Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, ofAssociation and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all customer, supplier or otherwise.
Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors and Officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors Outside appointments throughout 2010 and is currently in force.
Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group ofinvolvement by Unilever senior management acting as directors In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where of other companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their applicable, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision experience and knowledge.
The number of outside directorships of tothe Directors from time to time of two subsidiaries that act listed companies is generally limited to one per individual, and in the astrustee respectively of two of Unilevers UK pension schemes.
case of publicly listed companies approval is required from the Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Outside directorships must not involve an excessive commitment or conflict of interest, and Unilever senior management must at all times ensure that their time commitment to Unilever takes precedence over anyoutside directorship.
Fees paid in connection with an outside directorship may be retained by the individual, reflecting that any outside directorship is for the responsibility of the individual and thatUnilever takes no responsibility in this regard.
46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance Our Committees Board Committees The Boards have established the committees described below, All committees are provided with sufficient resources allformally set up by Board resolutions with carefully defined toundertake their duties, and the terms of reference remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and foreachcommittee are contained within The Governance of report regularly to the Boards.
For all committees, if Directors Unilever and are also available on our website at areunable to attend a meeting, they are given the opportunity www.
before the meeting to discuss with the Chairman of the committee any agenda items or committee papers.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee The Audit Committee assists the Boards in fulfilling The Nomination Committee recommends to the Boards theiroversight responsibilities in respect of: the integrity candidates for the positions of Director.
It also has ofUnilevers financial statements: risk management and responsibilities for succession planning and oversight internal control arrangements: compliance with legal and ofcorporate governance matters.
It is supplied with regulatory requirements: the performance, qualifications information by the Group Secretary.
and independence of the external auditors: and the performance of the internal audit function.
The Audit The Nomination Committee comprises a minimum of two Committee is supplied with all information necessary for independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
theperformance of its duties by the Chief Auditor, Chief The Nomination Committee is chaired by Jeroen van Financial Officer, Group Controller and external auditors, derVeer, and its othermembers are Michael Treschow and both the Chief Auditor and the external auditors have andPaulWalsh.
Following Jeroen van der Veers retirement direct access to the Audit Committee separately from at the end ofthe 2011 AGMs, it is intended that PaulWalsh management.
The Audit Committee is directly responsible, will succeed him asChairman of the Nomination Committee subject to local laws regarding shareholder approval, for the and both Ann Fudge and Kees Storm will become members nomination, compensation andoversight of the external of the Committee.
The AuditCommittee is compliant with the rules regarding audit committees applicable in the Netherlands, the See the Report of the Nomination Committee to the UK and the US.
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent Non-Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such members.
It is chaired by Kees Storm, and its othermembers are Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
Wim Dik stepped down as a member of the Committee following hisretirement as a Director at the 2010 AGMs in May.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that all the current members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial matters Remuneration Committee and have recent and relevant experience and that, for the The Remuneration Committee reviews Directors purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm remuneration and is responsible for the executive is the Audit Committees financial expert.
The Audit share-based incentive plans.
It makes proposals to the Committees meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Boards, within the parameters set by our shareholders, on Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Group specific remuneration arrangements for each of the Controller, the Chief Auditor and our external auditors.
Executive Directors, the remuneration scales and arrangements for Non-Executive Directors and the policy for See the Report of the Audit Committee to the shareholders the remuneration of the tier of management directly below on pages 56 and 57. the Boards.
The Committee is advised by theGroup Secretary on matters ofcorporate governance.
The Remuneration Committee comprises a minimum ofthree Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration The Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Committee is chaired by Jeroen van der Veer.
Its other has responsibility for the oversight of Unilevers conduct members are Ann Fudge, Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh.
with regard to its corporate and societal obligations and its Following Jeroen van der Veers retirement at the end ofthe reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
It comprises a 2011 AGMs, it is intended that PaulWalsh will succeed him minimum of three Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by asChairman of the Remuneration Committee and Kees Sir Malcolm Rifkind and its other members are Louise Fresco Storm will become a member of the Committee.
Narayana Murthy stepped down asamember of the Committee following his retirement The Directors Remuneration Report is found on pages asaDirector at the 2010 AGMs in May.
See the Report of the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee to shareholders on pages 58 and 59.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Report of the Directors Governance  Corporate governance framework Attendance  Audit Committee Name Attendance .
, theyhavethe KeesStorm Chairman 5of5  WimDik to12May2010 3of3 CharlesGolden 5of5 .
Corporate Responsibility and Reputation Committee Name Attendance Board Directors LeonBrittan Chairmanto12May2010 2of2 Name Attendance SirMalcolmRifkind  4of4 LouiseFresco 6of6 MichaelTreschow 10of10 NarayanaMurthy to12May2010 2of2 JeroenvanderVeer 9of10 HixoniaNyasulu 5of6 PaulPolman 10of10 Jean-MarcHut from12May2010 6of6 LeonBrittan to12May2010 4of4 Nomination Committee WimDik to12May2010 3of4 Name Attendance LouiseFresco 10of10 AnnFudge 10of10 JeroenvanderVeer Chairman 7of7 CharlesGolden 9of10 MichaelTreschow 7of7 ByronGrote 10of10 PaulWalsh 7of7 NarayanaMurthy to12May2010 3of4 HixoniaNyasulu 8of10 SirMalcolmRifkind from12May2010 6of6 Remuneration Committee KeesJStorm 10of10 Name Attendance PaulWalsh 9of10 JeroenvanderVeer Chairman 7of7 ExecutiveDirector AnnFudge 7of7 MichaelTreschow 7of7 PaulWalsh 7of7 Disclosure Committee TheBoardshavesetup, ,   .
48  Report of the Directors Governance Our Shareholders Shareholder matters arrangements apply to holders of depositary receipts issued forNV shares and the holders of NV preference shares.
PLC 1 Relations with shareholders and other investors shareholders can cast one vote for each 3 9p nominal capital that We believe it is important both to explain our business developments they hold.
This means shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC and financial results to investors and to understand their objectives.
ordinary share, or PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares.
Proxy appointments need to be with our Registrars 48 hours before the The Chief Financial Officer has lead responsibility for investor meeting, and the shareholding at this time will determine both the relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive right to vote and the ability to attend the meeting.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found suchpresentations are generally made available on our website.
inNVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Briefings on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are Notices of Meetings which can be found on our website at accessible by telephone or via our website.
Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American Depositary The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling them to announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, are authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N. A. respectively briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV or PLC.
Our shareholders can, and do, raise issues directly with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Senior N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited the holders of NVs special Independent Director.
shares, other group companies of NV which hold ordinary or preference shares, and United Holdings Limited, which owns half of Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective shareholders PLCs deferred stock, are not permitted to vote at General Meetings.
at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions and enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable AGMs is conducted by poll.
The final vote is published at the legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate meetings and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
votes, is put on Unilevers website.
General Meetings of shareholders Shareholder proposed resolutions The business to be conducted at the AGMs of NV and PLC Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually issetout in the separate Notices of AGM for NV and PLC.
It ortogether hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares typically includes approval consideration of the Annual Report or depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together and Accounts and remuneration framework, appointment of hold shares or depositary receipts worth or representing the Directors, appointment of external auditors, and authorisation market value in shares as set in respect thereto by or pursuant forthe Boards to allot and repurchase shares, and to restrict tothe law currently 50 million.
They must submit these pre-emptive rights of shareholders.
requests at least 60 days before the date of the General Meeting.
Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings over the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
to deal with specific resolutions.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask questions, and the question and answer sessions form an Shareholders who together hold shares representing at least 5% important part of the meetings.
ofthe total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who hold on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC capital, can require PLC General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
PLC shareholders attimes and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC ordinary shares are able normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
in London, on consecutive days.
The notices calling the meetings normally go out more than 42 days prior to the meetings and Required majorities areplaced on the website.
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there We welcome our external auditors to the AGMs and they are areother requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or entitled to address the meetings.
For example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Voting rights Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
to attend and vote at NV General Meetings.
Dutch law requires that the record date is set at a date 28 days before the meeting, A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only and shares are not blocked between the record date and the date bemade by the Board of NV.
A proposal to alter the Articles of the meeting.
NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 ofAssociation of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC nominal capital that they hold.
This means that they can cast one orby shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK vote for each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar in the Articles of Association of PLC, PLCs Articles of Association Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Report of the Directors Governance Our Shareholders continued may be amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares relating to the unity of management require the prior andvice versa, and are entitled to dividends and all economic approvalofmeetings of the holders of the NV special shares benefits on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
The Articles of Association ofbothNVandPLC can be found on our website at The Foundations shareholding fluctuates daily itsholdings on www.
28 February 2011 were: NV ordinary shares of 0.16: 1,268,224,230 73.96% : and Right to hold shares NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 428.57: 9,776 Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the 33.71%.
right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of The members of the board at the Foundation are Mr J H Schraven NV and PLC imposed by foreign law.
chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
The Foundation reports periodically on its activities.
Electronic communication We are committed to efforts to continue more effective ways Further information on the Foundation, including its Articles of ofcommunication with our shareholders around the AGMs.
Association and Conditions of Administration, can be found on Electronic communication is already an important and established its website at www.
medium for shareholders, providing ready access to shareholder information and reports, and for voting purposes.
Voting by holders of depositary receipts Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have Shareholders of PLC can choose to receive electronic notification voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice equated that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have with shareholders.
They can attend all General Meetings of NV, been published on our website, instead of receiving printed either personally or by proxy, and also have the right to speak.
The copies, and can also electronically appoint a proxy to vote on holders of the depositary receipts will then automatically, without their behalf at the AGM.
limitation and under all circumstances, receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation to vote on the underlying shares.
Registration for electronic communication by shareholders of PLCcan be made at www.
The Foundation is obliged to follow the voting instructions of TheUKCompanies Act 2006 contains provisions facilitating holders of depositary receipts.
The same applies to the voting communications between companies and their shareholders instructions of holders of depositary receipts not attending a electronically and PLC has established such a facility after consulting shareholders meeting and who issue voting instructions to the with its shareholders to offer them the opportunity to review their Foundation via the Dutch Shareholders Communication Channel.
method of receiving shareholder communications in the future.
Voting by the Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office Share capital matters Shares for which the Foundation has not granted voting proxies or for which it has not received voting instructions are voted on Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in the interests The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the Specific provisions apply in the event that a meeting of the beneficiaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of holders of NV 7% cumulative preference shares is convened.
specialshares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, asubsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, the Foundation end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days 1 3 9peach.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary inadvance of the meeting if possible.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in NVmeetings have been cast by the Foundation.
Unilever and specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
PLC theFoundation have a policy of actively encouraging holders of guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the special shares.
depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in NV meetings.
Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation The Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office Stichting appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a board giventhe size of the voting rights attached to the financing independent of Unilever.
As part of its corporate objects, the preference shares and the relatively low attendance of holders Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for the ordinary ofordinary shares at the General Meetings of NV.
and 7% preference shares it holds in NV.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as arethe NV ordinary and 7% Further information on the share capital of NV and PLC is given preference shares themselves.
50 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance Our Foundation Agreements Our requirements and compliance Foundation Agreements Requirements and compliance general The Unilever Group is created and maintained by a series of Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the agreements between the parent companies, NV and PLC, together Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
with special provisions in their respective articles of association, Inthis section we report on our compliance with the corporate whichare together known as the Foundation Agreements.
These governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity of management, Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with operations, shareholders rights, purpose and mission and further corporate governance standards in the US.
information on these agreements is provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever which is available on our Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the website at www.
Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, we are required NVs Articles of Association contain, among other things, the to provide information on contracts and other arrangements objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is essential or material to the business of the Group.
We believe authorised to undertake.
They are drafted to give a wide scope wedo not have any such contracts or arrangements.
and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business as a holding company, to manage any companies in which it has Our governance arrangements are designed and structured an interest and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation topromote and further the interests of our companies and their Agreement.
At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that shareholders.
The Boards however reserve the right, in cases the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of Association where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
orour shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in thepresent and previous sections in relation to our corporate Equalisation Agreement governance.
Any such changes will be reported in future Annual The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes oftheshareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same tothe relevant documents published on our website.
As asif they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation appropriate, proposals for change will be put to our shareholders Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of for approval.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Further information can be found on our website and in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever.
This describes Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic the terms of reference of our Board Committees, including their interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
It will be kept up to date with changes in ourinternal constitutional arrangements that our Boards may The Equalisation Agreement can be found on our website at make from time to time and it is available on our website at www.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses the intention being to create and maintain a common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains provisions for the allocation ofassets between NV and PLC.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants can be found on our website at www.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies alsojointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain significant public borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing can be found on our website at www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Report of the Directors Governance Our requirements and compliance continued Requirements European Union Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive, The Netherlands certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to control and share structures and interests of NV and PLC.
Such NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice Report, include the following: provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV this.
As will be clear from the description of our governance orPLC, or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a arrangements, NV complies with almost all of the principles and transfer of such securities.
The NV special ordinary shares may best practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is only be transferred to one or more holders of such shares: available at www.
The text that there are no arrangements by which, with NVs or PLCs follows sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by to make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this aperson other than the holder of such securities: Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of non-compliance.
NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders of securities which may result in restrictions on the Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate transfer of such securities or on voting rights: responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our mission to neither NV nor PLC are parties to any significant agreements double the size of the company while reducing our environmental which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate impact.
With respect to our performance measures Unilever is such agreement upon a change of control following a keen to ensure focus on key financial performance measures takeover bid: which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value creation NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or and relative total shareholder return.
Unilever therefore believes employee that would provide compensation for loss of office that the interests of the business and shareholders are best served or employment resulting from a takeover except that most of by linking the long-term share plans to the measures as described Unilevers share schemes contain provisions which operate in in the Directors Remuneration Report and has not included a the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for non-financial performance indicator Principle II.
2.3. instance cause options or awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into Board and Committee structures new awards for shares in another entity: and NV has a one-tier board, consisting of both Executive and, in a the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or majority, Non-Executive Directors.
We achieve compliance of our abstain in any way they think fit and in doing so may take board arrangements with the Dutch Code, which is for the most intoaccount both financial and non-financial interests of the part based on the customary two-tier structure in the Netherlands, beneficiaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants.
by, as far as is possible and practicable, applying the provisions of Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
the Dutch Code relating to members of a management board to our Executive Directors and by applying the provisions relating to members of a supervisory board to our Non-Executive Directors.
Management tasks not capable of delegation are performed by the NV Board as a whole.
Risk management and control Our principal risks are described on pages 33 to 37.
Our approach to risk management and systems of internal control is based on the COSO framework and is described on page 38.
As a result of the review of the Audit Committee as described in its report on pages 56 and 57 the NV Board believes that as regards financial reporting risks the risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements do not contain any errors of material importance and the risk management and control systems have worked properly in 2010 bpp ll.
The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of2002.
Retention period of shares The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years bpp II.
Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy requires Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in Unilever.
The Boards believe that this is in line with the spirit of the Dutch Code.
52 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance Severance pay Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors We have extensive procedures for handling relations with at no more than one years salary, unless the NV Board, at the andcommunicating with shareholders, investors, analysts proposal of the Remuneration Committee, finds this manifestly andthe media also see page 49.
The important presentations unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance byapplicable law bpp II.
2.8. with the Dutch Code bpp IV.
Due to their large number and overlap in information, however, some of the less important ones Conflicts of interest are not announced in advance, made accessible to everyone In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the provisions orput on our website.
ofthe Dutch Code Principles II.
Conflicts of interest are not understood to include transactions and other Corporate Governance Statement activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on Financing preference shares additional requirements for annual reports Vaststellingsbesluit NV issued 4%, 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares nadere voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with effect from between 1927 and 1970.
Their voting rights are based on 1January 2010 the Decree.
The information required to be theirnominal value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch included in this corporate governance statement as described Coderecommends that the voting rights on such shares should, inarticles 3, 3a and 3b of the Decree can be found in the in any event when they are newly issued, be based on their following sections of this report: economic value rather than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees with this principle but cannot unilaterally reduce the information concerning compliance with the Dutch votingrights of its outstanding preference shares.
Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the Decree, can be found under Corporate Governance within Following the approval by the NV shareholders during the NV the section Requirements the Netherlands in this report: AGM on 11 May 2010 to reduce the capital with regard to the information concerning Unilevers risk management and the4% cumulative preference shares against repayment and control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, amendment of the Articles of Association, the 4% cumulative as required by article 3a a of the Decree, can be found under preference shares were cancelled by way of an amendment of Outlook and risks on pages 33 to 39 and within the relevant the NV Articles of Association, effective 9 August 2010. sections under Corporate Governance in this report: the information regarding the functioning of NVs General Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of NVs NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the shareholders, as required by article 3a b of the Decree, can sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, befound within the relevant sections under Corporate toblock future hostile public offers for its shares bpp IV.
Governance in this report: Nor does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose is the information regarding the composition and functioning toprevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from ofNVs Board and its Committees, as required by article 3a c appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a underCorporate Governance in this report: and public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not the information concerning the inclusion of the information under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, rightof the board of the company to exercise its powers.
as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under Corporate Governance and Provision of information within the section Shareholder information, Analysis of We consider it important to comply with all applicable statutory shareholding in this report.
regulations on the equal treatment of shareholders and provision of information and communication with shareholders and other parties Principles IV.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Report of the Directors Governance Our requirements and compliance continued The United Kingdom PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK Risk management and control andlisted on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and applied the main principles and how far it has complied with systems of internal control are described on pages 33 to 39. the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code, This approach to risk management and systems of internal acopyof which is available at www.
control is in line with the recommendations in the report on Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied Combined Code The Turnbull Guidance.
the main principles and the provisions in the Combined Code.
In2010, PLC complied with all Code provisions.
The effectiveness of the system of internal control, including processes in relation to financial reporting and preparation ofconsolidated financial statements, has been reviewed by the AuditCommittee.
The Audit Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure, and details of the activities of the Audit Committee in relation to this can be found in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 56 and 57.
It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and inany event by the end of the first full year of operation.
54 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance The United States Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange We are required by US securities laws and the Listing and must therefore comply with such of the requirements of Standards of the NYSE to have an Audit Committee that USlegislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing regulations enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of theNYSE.
We are compliant with these Standards ofthe New York Stock Exchange NYSE as are requirements.
We arealso required to disclose any significant applicable to foreign private issuers, copies of which are ways in which ourcorporate governance practices differ from available at www.
In some cases those typically followed by US companies listed on the NYSE.
the requirements are mandatory and in other cases the In addition totheinformation we have given to you in this obligation is to comply or explain.
report about ourcorporate governance arrangements, further details areprovided in the document entitled The Governance We have complied in all material respects with the requirements ofUnilever, which is on our website at concerning corporate governance that were in force during www.
Attention is drawn in particular to the remit of the AuditCommittee on page 47 and the Report of the Audit We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE Committee on pages 56 and 57. applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance practices do not significantly differ from those required of US Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material companies listed on the NYSE.
respects that are not specifically disclosed elsewhere or otherwise clear from reading this report include: We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity tovote on certain equity compensation plans.
the Code of Business Principles and Code Policy declaration undertaken by all senior financial officers: Risk management and control the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and former employees of the audit firm: and systems of internal control are described on pages 33 to 39. the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under SEC rules relating to standards of professional Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive conductfor US attorneys.
Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and In each of these cases, existing practices were revised procedures, including those defined in United States Securities and ordocumented in such a way as to conform to the Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December newrequirements.
2010 were effective, and that subsequently until the date of theapproval of the Annual Report by the Boards, there have All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared been no significant changes in the Groups internal controls, their understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code orin other factors that could significantly affect those controls.
ofBusiness Principles and the underpinning Code Policies.
Nowaiver from any provision of the Code of Business Principles Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley or Code Policies was granted to any of the persons falling within Act of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control the scope of the SEC requirements in 2010.
The Code Policies over financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported include mandatory requirements covering but not limited to onseparately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report the following areas: Accurate records, reporting & accounting: onForm20-F. Anti-bribery: Avoiding conflicts of interest: Gifts & entertainment: Preventing insider trading: Political activities & political donations: Contact with government, regulators & non-governmental organisations: Respect, dignity & fair treatment: External communications the media, investors & analysts.
Our Code of Business Principles is available on our website at www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55
