Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Audit Committee The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee are to In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk assist the Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities management, internal control and the financial statements, the regarding the integrity of Unilevers financial statements, risk Committee met regularly with senior members of management management and internal control, compliance with legal and and are fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
regulatory requirements, the external auditors performance, qualifications and independence, and the performance of the Internal audit function internal audit function.
During the year, principal activities were The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year as follows: and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed interim and year-end summary reports and managements Financial statements response.
The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial performance of the internal audit function and were satisfied with Officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee met including other financial statements and disclosures prior to their independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee.
discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
The They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Committee approved the appointment of the new Chief Auditor.
Report on Form 20-F, the quarterly results and accompanying press releases prior to publication.
These reviews incorporated the Audit of the Annual Accounts accounting policies and key judgements and estimates , Unilevers external auditors, reported in underpinning the financial statements including: depth to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, including their audit of internal controls over financial goodwill and intangible assets reporting as required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act provisions of 2002.
Their reports included accounting matters, governance business combinations and control, and accounting developments.
financial instruments pensions The Committee held independent meetings with the external taxation: and auditors during the year and discussed and challenged their audit going concern assessment plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk profile of the Group.
The Committee discussed the views and The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatment conclusions of  regarding managements adopted.
treatment of significant transactions and areas of judgement during the year and  confirmed they were Risk management and internal control arrangements satisfied that these had been treated appropriately in the financial The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk statements.
management and control, and its processes, outcomes and disclosure.
It reviewed: External auditors The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the the Controllers Quarterly Risk & Control Status Report which effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee has includes matters arising from the Global Code and Policy considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and Committee, including Code cases relating to frauds, and determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary.
As a significant complaints received through the global Ethics result, the Committee has approved the extension of the current Hotline: external audit contract by one year, and recommended to the Corporate Risks, including the 2011 Focus Risks identified by Boards the re-appointment of the external auditors.
On the the Unilever Executive: recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be Managements work to introduce a simplified policy proposing the re-appointment of  at the framework that directly underpins the Code of Business AGMs in May 2011 see pages 132 and 137.
Principles: the application of information and communication Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had safeguards technology: in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors objectivity and tax planning and related risk management: independence could be compromised.
The Committee reviewed treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: the report from  on the actions they take commodity risk management, governance and derivatives to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and hedging: and best practice designed to ensure their independence from Unilever.
litigation and regulatory investigations presented by the Chief Legal Officer.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, other audit, tax and other services provided by , and The Committee reviewed the application of the requirements compliance with Unilevers documented approach, which under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with prescribes in detail the types of engagements for which the respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
external auditors can and cannot be used: In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and statutory audit services including audit of subsidiaries: Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
other audit services work which regulations or agreements with third parties require the auditors to undertake: 56 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Report of the Directors Governance other services statutory auditors may carry out work that they are best placed to undertake, including internal control reviews: acquisition and disposal services where the auditors are best placed to do this work: tax services all significant tax consulting work is put to tender, except where the auditors are best placed to do this: and general consulting external auditors may not tender for general consulting work.
All engagements over 100,000 require specific advance approval of the Audit Committee Chairman.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
Audit Committee terms of reference The Audit Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are contained within The Governance of Unilever and are also available on our website at www.
Board Assessment of the Audit Committee The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance.
Kees Storm Chairman of the Audit Committee Charles Golden Byron Grote Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57
