Report of the Directors Governance Report of the Nomination Committee Terms of Reference relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge The Nomination Committee comprises two Independent and experience to the benefit of the Group see page 40 for details Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It is chaired by Jeroen in the biographies.
van der Veer and its other members are Michael Treschow andPaul Walsh.
Jeroen van der Veer will step down from the Activities of the Committee during the year Committee at the conclusion of the 2011 AGMs, and PaulWalsh The Committee met seven times in 2010.
All meetings were willbe recommended to the Boards to Chair the Committee.
attended by Jeroen van der Veer, Michael Treschow and Paul TheGroupSecretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other attendees at Committee meetings or part thereof were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer, the Group The Nomination Committee is responsible for drawing up Secretary and, where appropriate, external advisers.
selection criteria and appointment procedures.
Under Unilevers corporate governance arrangements Executive and Non-Executive The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual themselves for re-election at the 2010 AGMs in May 2010.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for 2010, the Committee also proposed the nominations of Jean-Marc recommending candidates for nomination as Executive Directors Hut as an Executive Director and Sir Malcolm Rifkind asa including the Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director at the 2010 AGMs in May.
Jean-Marc Hutwas each year based on the process of evaluations referred to below.
chosen because the Boards believe that his experience inthe After Directors have been appointed by shareholders the corporate and financial world would be a great asset to the business, Committee recommends to the Boards candidates for election and Sir Malcolm Rifkind was chosen because, with his broad asChairman and the Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent background in international affairs, he would be a valuable addition to Director.
The Committee also has responsibility for supervising the Boards.
Upon appointment as a Non-Executive Director Sir Malcolm thepolicy of the Chief Executive Officer on the selection Rifkind was subsequently appointed as Chairman of theCorporate criteriaand appointment procedures for senior management Responsibility and Reputation Committee.
In making these anditkeeps oversight of all matters relating to corporate appointments the Nomination Committee was supported byan governance, bringingany issues to the attention of the Boards.
independent executive search firmchosen by the Committee which TheCommitteesTermsof Reference are contained within had been engaged to identify suitable candidates for the rolesrequired.
TheGovernance ofUnilever and are also available on our website Following his appointment atthe 2010 AGMs, theCommittee www.
approved an extensive induction programme for SirMalcolm Rifkind.
Process for the appointment of Directors The Nomination Committee recommended the appointment Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, the ofTonia Lovell as the Group Secretary following Steve Williams Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The Chairman, in retirement in July 2010. conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards assess their own performance Supported by an independent executive search firm, the Committee and the results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee carried out a search for a new Non-Executive Director and is when it discusses the nominations for re-election as Directors.
delighted that Mr Sunil Bharti Mittal has agreed to join our Boards.
Itis believed that Mr Mittal would further strengthen the range of Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may expertise available on the Boards, as well as meeting our seekthe services of specialist recruitment firms and other external Non-Executive Director profile.
Mr Mittal has been proposed by the experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills Committee for election as a Non-Executive Director at the 2011 and expertise.
The Committee reviews candidates presented AGMs in May 2011. bythe recruitment firm, or by Directors and members of theUnilever Executive, and all members of the Committee are As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, during the year involved in the interview process before making their the Committee considered the new UK Corporate Governance recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
Code, which will apply to Unilever from 1 January 2011, and will continue to ensure that Unilever complies with the new provisions, In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed where appropriate, for our 2011 reporting year.
Board profile of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in An internal evaluation was undertaken by the Chairman and the theDutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Combined Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director with the assistance of the Code on Corporate Governance.
Under the terms of The Group Secretary during 2010 in relation to the performance of the Governance of Unilever the Boards should comprise a majority Boards, of the Chairman, of the individual Directors and of the Board of Non-Executive Directors.
To represent Unilevers areas of Committees.
Feedback from Directors was obtained through detailed interest, the profile also indicates there should be a strong questionnaires which were used as the basis for the overall evaluation of representation from Developing and Emerging markets as the Boards and Board Committees, and a series ofinterviews with the wellas from Europe and North America.
Non-Executive Directors Chairman and individual Directors.
The Committee also carried out an should be independent of Unilever and free from any conflicts assessment of its own performance, led by the Committee Chairman.
The profile looks at diversity in terms of nationality, The results of the Board, the BoardCommittees and Chairman race, gender and relevant expertise and directs that, wherever evaluations were discussed at theDecember 2010 Board Meetings.
possible, the Boards should reflect Unilevers consumer base.
Jeroen van der Veer Chairman of the Nomination Committee It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become Michael Treschow aNon-Executive Director of another company and that such an Paul Walsh appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where 60 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2010
