Collaboration through relationships In todays competitive engineering industries, success frequently comes from an ability to work in efficient collaborative relationships.
It is now common to find businesses collaborating on one project while competing for another.
AVEVA technology enables collaborative use of all types of project information, so that businesses can compete on innovation and their core competencies.
JRI Mario Gonzalez, Chief of Integral Design Area: This is a real innovation for JRI.
No other applications have given us this level of business value.
We expect our continuing close relationship with AVEVA will enable us to deliver even more impressive projects in the future.
JRI Ingeniera raises the benchmark in minerals processing Large-scale minerals projects create considerable engineering challenges, not least because they often span great distances and complex topography.
Chilean mining engineering company JRI Ingeniera has put itself in a leadership position by its innovative use of AVEVA Plant solutions.
JRI regards AVEVA as an important business partner for its close technical support, which has enabled JRI to train engineers on-demand to meet its specific industry needs.
JRI also developed an innovative means of mapping and integrating complex site topography by means of aerial survey data converted into PDMS data.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 06 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 6 01 06 2010 16:40:54 Overview Information integration Business review Corporate Governance For many years, AVEVA has taken the lead in removing barriers to information Financial statements interchange by progressively integrating its technologies and promoting the use of robust, open standards.
Effective integration and sharing of all project information is the essential enabler for seamless collaboration.
Acquisition and partnership Recognising the wealth of creativity in the engineering IT industry, AVEVA actively seeks to expand the scope of its solutions through carefully selected technology or business acquisitions and by developing close partnerships with companies offering complementary technologies.
Located in Nantong, Rongsheng Heavy Industries RSHI is today Chinas fastest growing private shipbuilder, with development plans through to 2020.
Since its establishment in 2005, RSHI has been using AVEVAs Tribon system to design and build bulk carriers, oil tankers and containerships.
It is now expanding its business in high-value offshore products such as FPSOs, FSOs, deep-water pipelaying vessels, drillships and drilling rigs.
Using AVEVA technology, Rongsheng Heavy Industries plans to become one of the worlds top three shipbuilders Rongsheng Heavy Industries Chen Qiang, Chairman President of RSHI: AVEVAs Tribon marine solution was the natural choice for us because of its proven success in the Chinese shipbuilding industry.
Our plan is now to migrate to AVEVA Marine.
We find the 3D technology further enhanced in AVEVA Marine, with a better balance between the different structural and outfitting disciplines, as the integration between them is further improved in AVEVA Marine.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 07 2 AVE ar10 front.
