Leadership through progression AVEVA maintains its leadership by continually delivering new technologies that provide ever-increasing business value across the entire project lifecycle.
Many of these developments are carried out in collaboration with AVEVAs customers, focusing on real needs, practical working methods and measurable benefits.
Collaborative development shortens the ship structural design cycle TKMS BVN Rafael Doig, Research & Development Department: Using this new tool for the analysis of a frigate, we halved the time needed for the whole Finite Element Analysis of the vessel.
We expect to save from now on about 960 hours in the structural assessment of a vessel.
Analysing the structural strength and vibration characteristics of a complex ship structure is a highly skilled and lengthy process that is often a critical-path activity.
To solve this problem, AVEVA worked with TKMS Blohm Voss Nordseewerke BVN and three other leading German shipbuilders and consultants to specify and develop an efficient link between AVEVA Marine and third-party Finite Element Analysis FEA programs.
The result was AVEVA Hull Finite Element Modeller, released in January 2010 and already proven to deliver substantial reductions in time and cost while enabling more efficient design of more sophisticated vessels.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 04 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 4 01 06 2010 16:40:52 Overview Sustained innovation Business review Corporate Governance AVEVA maintains consistently high investment in R&D throughout the economic Financial statements cycles.
This strategy ensures the continual release of new, value-adding technology, whether as enhancements to established products, additions to portfolios, or closer technology integration.
This long-term commitment instils confidence in AVEVA as both a secure vendor and a sound investment.
Leading the way AVEVA successfully pioneered most of the technologies that form the foundation of todays engineering design methods.
The Company continues to lead the way with new technologies that harness information itself to create new opportunities for competitive advantage across the engineering industries.
Information management processes and tools are essential at every stage of an assets lifecycle, whether project execution, handover, or operations.
Thats why they are sometimes described as Project Lifecycle Management PLM tools.
AVEVAs PLM solution is AVEVA NET, an innovative and powerful technology platform for integrating and exploiting every type of project information.
Mustang, a leading Engineering, Procurement & Construction Management EPCM contractor in the oil and gas industry, uses AVEVA NET as the hub for project information management, from commencement to completion and for data handover to the client.
AVEVA NET supports Mustangs business processes across five business units in 13 offices around the world.
AVEVAs information management technologies enable true global collaboration Mustang Engineering John Dalton, Executive Vice President: Efficient data management and access to information have always been challenges to global project execution.
With AVEVA NET, we are able to provide our global projects with an easily accessible, single source of project data, ensuring more efficient data management, consistency across deliverables and true global collaboration.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 05 2 AVE ar10 front.
