co. uk 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Details are set out in the narrative below of the companys corporate perry, who is retiring from the Board at the close of the Annual General governance procedures and application of the principles of the combined meeting AGm, all the Directors will therefore be offering themselves for code on corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting council in election at this years AGm as set out in the notice of AGm and on page 31.
the company has complied with the provisions of Responsibilities and meetings the code throughout the year ended 31 December 2010. the Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates THE BOARD certain matters to committees as outlined below.
the Board convened on ultimate responsibility for the management of cookson rests with the eight formal scheduled occasions during 2010 as well as holding a number Board of Directors.
the Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy of ad hoc committee meetings to consider non-routine business.
it approves the Groups strategy, oversees the allocation of resources the chairman and the other non-executive Directors meet routinely on and monitors the performance of the Group in pursuit of this.
their own without the executive Directors present and at least once each year the non-executive Directors meet without the chairman present to mEmBERSHIP discuss matters such as the chairmans performance.
the Board currently has nine Directors, comprising the non-executive specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group and chairman, Jeff Harris: the chief executive, nick salmon: the Group Finance divisional performance: approving significant transactions including Director, mike Butterworth: the chief executive Officer of the ceramics acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and changes to the Groups Division, Franois Wanecq and five non-executive Directors.
the Board capital structure: setting and approving the Groups strategy and annual considers each of the non-executive Directors, namely Jeff Hewitt, peter budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury policies: succession Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry perry and John sussens, to be independent of planning and approving Board appointments and the remuneration of the management and free from any business or other relationship which non-executive Directors.
in addition, the Board considers health, safety and could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
in addition, environmental matters and reviews the Groups risk management processes.
Jeff Harris was considered on his appointment date, 1 April 2010, to meet the independence criteria set out in the code.
the division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
the the company has reviewed the availability of the non-executive Directors chairman leads the Board and meets routinely with the chief executive and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the and Group secretary to discuss matters relating to its efficient functioning.
necessary amount of time to the companys business.
the Board nominates the chairman also serves as chairman of Filtrona plc.
the Board considers one of the non-executive Directors to act as senior independent Director and that the chairman is able to and does devote sufficient time to his duties provide an alternative contact at Board level, other than the chairman, to at cookson.
whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
mr sussens continues to hold this position.
the biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 21. the attendance of Directors who served during the year at Board and principal committee meetings during the year, together with the maximum the new uK corporate Governance code issued by the Financial Reporting number of meetings in the period when the individual was a Board member council in may 2010 recommends that all Directors of Ftse 350 companies as shown in brackets, was as follows: be subject to annual election by shareholders.
With the exception of mr Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Robert Beeston 3 3 n a n a 1 1 Jeff Harris 7 7 n a n a 1 1 Executive Directors mike Butterworth 8 8 n a n a n a nick salmon 8 8 n a n a 2 2 Franois Wanecq 7 8 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors Jeff Hewitt 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 peter Hill 7 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 Jan Oosterveld 7 8 4 4 5 5 1 2 Barry perry 7 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 John sussens 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 23 papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Board or the Board agreed a number of specific action items as a result of the committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any evaluation exercise.
these included a refinement to the Boards approach to matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
the Group secretary risk evaluation and mitigation and greater attention to succession planning.
oversees the distribution of these papers and ensures that there is an it was also agreed that commensurate with the increased scale of the appropriate level of communication between the Board and its committees Groups activities in emerging markets, the risks and opportunities for the and between senior management and the non-executive Directors.
He also Groups businesses in these countries would feature more prominently on keeps the Board apprised of relevant developments in corporate governance.
the Boards agenda in the future.
Performance evaluation the chairmen of each of the Audit, nomination and Remuneration committees also discussed the results of the evaluation of each committee in accordance with the provisions of the code, the Board undertakes a with committee members.
these reviews concluded that each committee formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness continued to operate effectively.
and assesses the performance of its committees and individual Board members on an annual basis.
the precise scope of the evaluation varies Induction and training from year to year and is agreed in advance with the full Board.
the chairman the Group secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction programme leads the evaluation process with the assistance of the Group secretary.
is provided to all new Directors, including visits to manufacturing facilities, the performance of the chairman is included in the review and takes into meetings with key Group executives and introductions to the companys account the views of both the executive and non-executive Directors.
the principal external advisers, as appropriate.
new Directors are also advised of chairmans evaluation is conducted by the senior independent Director who their legal and other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed company.
provides feedback to the chairman.
As part of the chairmans evaluation the this is supplemented by reference materials, which are updated as required, non-executive Directors meet separately with the senior independent Director.
including information about the Board, its committees, Directors duties, procedures for dealing in the companys shares and other regulatory and the 2010 Board evaluation process was designed to be more forward governance matters.
Directors are provided with details of seminars and looking.
it focused upon key aspects of Board performance, including training courses relevant to their role.
they are encouraged to attend these strategy review, succession planning and latest appointments to the Board.
as they consider appropriate and are supported by the company in so doing.
participants were requested to identify their own competencies and to give Where a general training need is identified, in-house training is provided to their perception of their peers effectiveness and contribution.
this enabled the entire Board.
in 2010 updates were given to the Board on developments in a skills matrix to be developed.
various areas of governance and regulation, including changes to institutional consistent with previous years, the review was carried out with the and regulatory codes on corporate governance and remuneration, assistance of an external facilitator who has no other connection with the forthcoming accounting changes and progress with the enactment of the company and involved the use of a specially designed questionnaire which uK Bribery Bill.
During the year Directors also attended external seminars and was completed by the Directors and the Group secretary with the results other functions relevant to specific areas of their responsibility.
being collated and summarised by the external facilitator.
each Director Relations with shareholders received a copy of the report prepared by the external facilitator, which the company has an established investor relations programme managed summarised and analysed all responses on a non-attributable basis.
by the chief executive and Group Finance Director.
the company reports the process also involved individual meetings between the chairman and its financial results to shareholders twice a year, with the publication of members of the Board and the Group secretary to discuss any issues arising its Annual and Half-Yearly Financial Reports.
in conjunction with these from the evaluation.
the full Board then considered the report with the announcements presentations are made to institutional investors and chairman and senior independent Director adding their own comments analysts, copies of which are posted on the Groups website www.
based on the outcome of their separate discussions.
in addition, in 2010 the company issued interim management statements in April and november.
the new chairman was judged to have performed well against all the measured criteria during the first months of his tenure.
the Board also the company maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional investors concluded that overall it functioned effectively and that all Directors, and regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions are provided to including the Directors appointed during 2010, performed well, each of the Board.
Board members also receive copies of significant analysts notes them making a significant contribution to the company.
the quality of issued on the company.
All Directors normally attend the companys AGm, discussion at Board meetings was judged to be good, with an appropriate providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about issues level of challenge.
relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally afterwards.
com 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Our Financials Our Governance Our Business www.
co. uk 24 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued BOARD COmmITTEES During the year under review, the committee met four times and reviewed, amongst other matters, the companys published financial results: internal the principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and audit reports and management control issues: the scope of the external nominations committees.
each committee has written terms of reference audit and its cost-effectiveness: the performance of the Auditor: and the agreed by the Board.
these are available to view on the companys website extent to which the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services might www.
affect its independence and objectivity in carrying out the audit.
in respect AUDIT COmmITTEE of all matters considered by the committee, it believes that it received the Audit committee members are the non-executive Directors, namely sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to Jeff Hewitt, peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry perry and John sussens.
Hill joined the committee following his appointment to the Board on 1 more specifically, the responsibilities of the committee were discharged February 2010.
During 2010 the committee was chaired by mr Hewitt.
the as follows: Board believes mr Hewitt possesses the relevant financial experience, as described by the code.
at its meetings in July 2010 and February 2011, the committee reviewed the companys Half-Yearly Report and Annual Results Announcement the Group Finance Director, the Group Head of internal Audit and the Annual Report and Accounts, respectively.
On both occasions, the companys Auditor, KpmG Audit plc, are normally invited to attend meetings committee received reports from management on significant aspects and other executives are invited to attend as and when appropriate.
the of the Groups financial statements, including amounts reported at fair committee meets regularly with the companys Auditor without any value, off-balance sheet items and contingent liabilities, and received executives being present.
reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental AUDIT COmmITTEE REPORT issues thereon requiring its attention: the principal roles of the Audit committee are: at each of the four meetings, the committee received a report from the Group Head of internal Audit covering, amongst other things, the work assisting the Board in the discharge of its responsibilities in respect undertaken by the internal Audit function and management responses of statutory and other financial reporting and in respect of its review of to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management the year.
in addition, at the October 2010 meeting the committee systems: reviewed the results of an assessment which had been undertaken of the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys internal performance of the internal Audit function and at the December 2010 audit function: meeting, the committee reviewed the internal audit plan, submitted by the Group Head of internal Audit for 2011. making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and dismissal of the Auditor: at each of the four meetings, the committee reviewed the Auditors control findings: approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Auditor: at the July 2010 meeting, the committee reviewed the results of an monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity assessment which had been undertaken of the performance of the and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory Auditor and reviewed and agreed the audit plan presented by the requirements: and Auditor, which detailed the approach and scope of the work to be helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by undertaken and the level of fee to be charged: providing a direct channel of communication between it and the at its meetings in December 2010 and February 2011 the committee non-executive Directors.
reviewed both the risk management process operated by management the committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention and designed to identify the key risks facing each business and how those treatment of complaints received by the company including accounting, risks were being managed: internal controls, auditing matters and confidential communications from at its meeting in February 2011 the committee reviewed a report from employees.
management which addressed the appropriateness of the production of the Group Head of internal Audit reports directly to the committee the Group and company financial statements on a going concern basis: chairman and the committee reviews and approves the internal audit work programme for each year.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 25 the chairman of the Audit committee reports the outcome of the from time to time, executives were required to make presentations to committee meetings to the Board and all members of the Board receive the the committee or to the full Board on the identification, management agenda, papers and minutes of Audit committee meetings.
and control of specific areas of risk which impact the company and the Group: and REmUNERATION COmmITTEE as a matter of routine, the committee was presented with information the Remuneration committee members are the non-executive Directors, on any significant litigation involving the Group.
namely Jeff Hewitt, peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld, Barry perry and John sussens who chairs the committee.
mr Hill joined the committee following his As noted above, one of the duties of the committee is to make appointment to the Board on 1 February 2010. the committees principal recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Auditor.
roles are to set the appropriate remuneration for the chairman, the in undertaking this duty, the committee takes into consideration a number executive Directors and the Group secretary, and to recommend and of factors concerning the Auditor and the Groups current activity, including: monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management, the quality both of reports provided by the Auditor to the committee and being the first layer of management below Board level.
Further details of the Board, and of advice given: the level of understanding demonstrated the activities of the Remuneration committee are provided in the Directors of the Groups businesses: the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 44. throughout the Group: its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines: the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the audit the chairman of the Remuneration committee reports the outcome of the costs of comparable uK companies: the tenure of the incumbent Auditor: and committee meetings to the Board.
the periodic rotation of the senior audit management assigned to the audit NOmINATIONS COmmITTEE of the company.
Having considered the aforementioned factors in 2010, the the nominations committee advises the Board on appointments committee decided to recommend the Auditor for reappointment.
to, and retirements and resignations from, the Board.
the members the terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include any contractual of the committee are the chairman, the chief executive and any obligations which would prevent the Directors appointing a different audit three non-executive Directors.
the committee meets as and when firm should this be considered appropriate.
required and is chaired by the chairman or a non-executive Director.
the chairman would not act as chairman of the committee where it was the committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Formal meetings are held of the external audit is not compromised.
these safeguards include: to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad seeking confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the company hoc discussion between members of the committee, particularly when a in its own professional judgement: and recruitment exercise is taking place.
considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the Group, On 1 February 2010, a new executive Director and a new non-executive including those relating to the provision of non-audit services and Director were appointed to the Board and on 1 April 2010 a new chairman whether these impair, or appear to impair, the Auditors judgement or was appointed to the Board.
When considering the appointment of independence.
these new Directors, the committee drew up specifications, taking into consideration the diversity of the Board including the balance of skills, the company has a policy governing the Group-wide conduct of nonknowledge and experience and the ongoing requirements of the Group.
audit work by the Auditor.
under that policy the Auditor is prohibited from it utilised the services of an external recruitment consultant to identify performing services where it: appropriate candidates for the roles of chairman and non-executive may be required to audit its own work: Director.
the senior independent Director and the chief executive met would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by with the short-listed candidates for the role of chairman and the remaining management: Directors then met with the preferred two candidates.
With respect to the appointment of the new non-executive Director, the chairman and chief is remunerated through a success fee structure: or executive met with the short-listed candidates and the remaining Directors acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
then met with the preferred candidate.
the committee subsequently made recommendations for each appointment to the full Board.
care is taken to Other than the above, the company does not impose an automatic ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient time available to devote prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
the Auditor is to the role and do not have any conflicts of interest.
permitted to provide non-audit services that are not, or are not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, provided it has the skill, the nominations committee reviews the companys succession plans.
the competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Board as a whole also considers this subject.
each of cooksons divisions Group.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for audit submits detailed succession plans in respect of senior divisional executives and other services are set out in note 8 on page 70. to the Board for review each year.
the Board also considers succession cooksongroup.
co. uk 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued planning for senior corporate executives, with the nominations committee the internal control system is monitored and supported by the Groups focusing in turn, specifically on succession planning for members of the internal Audit function, which operates on a global basis.
the chairman of the nominations committee reports the outcome management and the Board in the effective discharge of their responsibility of the committee meetings to the Board.
for internal control by conducting reviews of cookson businesses and reporting objectively both on the adequacy and effectiveness of the FINANCE AND SHARE SCHEmES COmmITTEES system of internal control in place and as to whether those businesses are the Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the in compliance with applicable Group policies and procedures.
the Group Finance and share schemes committees.
Head of internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, within the framework of common Group policies and standards, and for carrying out the Finance committee is chaired by the chairman, its other members assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Audit being the chief executive, Group Finance Director and Group treasurer.
the Audit committee receives reports from the Group Head of the committee meets as and when required to consider the approval of internal Audit on a regular basis and reports to the Board on the results of treasury-related matters.
the share schemes committees membership consists of any two Directors.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of it meets as and when required to undertake administrative matters in internal control, it delegates the following matters to the Audit committee relation to the companys share schemes.
to be carried out during the year: CENTRAL ExECUTIVE review of external and internal audit work plans: in addition to the committees of the Board described above, specific consideration of reports from management, internal audit and external authority has been delegated to the central executive comprising the audit on the system of internal control and any material control chief executive, Group Finance Director and Group secretary.
the central weaknesses: and executive is responsible for reviewing and approving capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals at certain levels as determined by the Board.
discussions with management on the actions taken on problem areas Responsibility for day-to-day operational management rests with the identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in external divisional chief executives.
INTERNAL CONTROL in addition to the above, the Board considers significant financing and the Directors are responsible for the establishment and maintenance of the investment decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of Groups system of internal control.
guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
the Board also reviews the role of insurance and other the company has complied with the provisions of the code relating to measures used in managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports internal control which require that the Directors review the effectiveness on any major issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational assessment of how the risks have changed over the period under review.
and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
this review covers the Groups financial reporting process, including that for the preparation At the year-end, following the review by the Audit committee of internal of the companys consolidated financial statements, which incorporates financial controls and of the processes covering other controls, the Board the dissemination and use of common accounting policies and procedures evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management procedures and financial reporting software.
Whilst no system of internal control conducted by senior management.
this includes a self-certification exercise can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, by which senior financial and operational management throughout the the Groups system is designed to provide the Directors with reasonable Group certify the effectiveness of the system of internal controls within the assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and are dealt with businesses for which they are responsible, together with their compliance appropriately.
since the date of the review, there have been no significant throughout the year with the Groups policies and procedures.
changes in internal controls or other matters which could significantly affect By Order of the Board them.
there is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by cookson.
Group management operates a risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing each business and reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
As a basis for this report, each of the Groups major business units produces Richard m H malthouse a risk map which identifies their key risks and assesses the likelihood of Group secretary those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the actions being 1 march 2011 taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
