com Annual Report 2010 governance Corporate governance report Code principles Executive, the Chairman is responsible for encouraging close and effective this report explains how the corporate governance principles set out in the working relationships between group level management and all levels of Combined Code on Corporate governance 2008 the Code are applied by corporately-owned and licensee operations.
the Chairman also chairs the the Company.
Nominations Committee and has responsibility for ensuring that Board evaluation processes are carried out and their results acted upon.
Board of Directors the names and biographical details of the Directors, including their the role of the non-executive members of the Board is to bring objective and Committee memberships, are set out on page 25. there were no changes informed judgement to Board discussions, with key areas of focus being: to the composition of the Board between 1 January 2010 and 25 February 2011. reviewing business and management performance development of strategy All Directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual general reviewing and monitoring financial controls and risk management Meeting, with the exception of Axel von Ruedorffer who will retire from the determining appropriate remuneration levels Board immediately following the Annual general Meeting on 25 May 2011. developing succession planning at senior levels of the group.
the Board is currently seeking a new independent non-executive Director to replace him.
the Chairman meets separately with the non-executive Directors at least annually in order to facilitate the non-executive Directors contribution to the As at 25 February 2011, the Board comprised the Chairman, three Board.
the Company did not have a nominated Senior Independent Director executive Directors and a further five non-executive Directors.
three of during the period to 25 February 2011 and the Nominations Committee the non-executive Directors Les Cullen, Pierre Alain fide Smedt and Axel continues to keep this role under review.
von Ruedorffer are considered to be independent.
Although Axel von Ruedorffer has now been a Director for over nine years, having been Board processes appointed for a further one year term at the 2010 Annual general Meeting, to enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely access is given Board continuity was viewed as particularly important for the Rights Issue to all relevant information.
the Company Secretary is responsible for and refinancing undertaken in 2010. the Company considers that Axel ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising the Board, von Ruedorffer remains an independent Director, while recognising that through the Chairman, on all matters of governance.
All Directors have this length of service is not in line with Code recommendations.
the two access to the Company Secretary whenever they require.
In the event remaining non-executive Directors Roland DIeteren and Benoit ghiot and that any Director wishes to take independent professional advice on any the executive Deputy Chairman Jean-Pierre Bizet are appointed by s. a. point arising in connection with the exercise of their duties, the Company DIeteren n. v. which has a shareholding of 59.6% in the Company, pursuant Secretary will arrange this at the Companys expense in accordance with to the terms of a Relationship Agreement entered into at flotation in 1997. written procedure.
the Company Secretary may only be removed by a under the Relationship Agreement, s. a. DIeteren n. v. is obliged to ensure resolution of the Board of Directors.
that its appointed Directors exercise their voting rights so as to maintain the independence of the Board, as required by the Listing Rules, thus ensuring Board evaluation that all Directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
During 2010 the Board carried out its annual evaluation process, which is Further details of the Relationship Agreement are set out in the Directors designed to provide a thorough evaluation of the Boards own performance Report on page 42, together with information relating to the Companys and that of its Committees.
Evaluations are conducted via a set of structured capital structure.
questionnaires which ask each Board Committee member to comment on a range of factors which contribute to the effectiveness of the Board or the the role of the Board relevant Committee.
the Board is collectively responsible for providing clear and effective leadership of the group by setting strategic objectives and providing the the results of the Board evaluation are reviewed by the Chairman and highest values and standards for the conduct of the Companys business.
relevant feedback is provided to the Board to agree any appropriate action, the Boards key areas of focus are: with a similar process undertaken by the Chairman of each Committee.
Formulation of strategy Board Committees Ensuring that effective plans are developed for both the short-term and the Board has established a Nominations Committee, Remuneration longer-term development of the group Committee and Audit Committee as described below.
the terms of reference Increasing shareholder value for each of the Committees are available on the groups website at Significant financing arrangements www.
In addition to the effectiveness evaluation, each Ensuring that a framework of appropriately prudent and effective controls Committee conducts an annual review of its terms of reference, and is maintained recommends to the Board any changes that may be required.
Corporate governance the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separate.
the Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for corporate governance, in particular for facilitating the contribution of the non-executive Directors, and ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In coordination with the Chief avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 27 Nominations Committee recognises that the representation of the DIeteren-appointed Directors on the Committee is responsible for ensuring that the Company has a the Committee is not in compliance with the Code, as Roland DIeteren is not rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of new Directors.
the regarded as an independent non-executive Director and Jean-Pierre Bizet Committees key responsibilities are: is an executive Director, but considers it essential that s. a. DIeteren n. v. as the majority shareholder of the Company, is represented on the Committee.
periodic review of the Boards structure and composition the DIeteren-appointed Directors abstain from discussion and voting on the setting objective criteria for new appointments to the Board, including remuneration of any Directors appointed by s. a. DIeteren n. v. pursuant to the sufficient time availability for the role, especially for chairmanships Relationship Agreement referred to on page 26. regular review of succession plans for the Board, members of the Avis Executive Board and other senior executives across the group to the Chief Executive, group Finance Director and group HR Director attend ensure that continuing management capability is available to match the meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation of the Chairman of the development needs of the business Committee.
ensuring that Board induction and training requirements are met.
Audit Committee During 2010, the Nominations Committee reviewed Board succession the Committee assists the Board by ensuring that the group presents planning and approved certain changes to the senior management team in a balanced and understandable assessment of its position with regard order to support the business needs of the group going forward.
to financial reporting, including interim, preliminary and other formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance.
the the members of the Nominations Committee are disclosed on page 25, and Committees key responsibilities are: their attendance at meetings in the table overleaf.
there were no changes to the composition of the Committee between 1 January 2010 and 25 February monitoring the integrity of the groups financial statements and the 2011.
As recommended by the Combined Code, the membership of the effectiveness and independence of the external audit process Committee comprises a majority of independent non-executive Directors.
the ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the group and the Chief Executive and group HR Director attend meetings of the Nominations external auditors is maintained, including review and where appropriate Committee by invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
approval of any non-audit services to be provided by the auditors, and related fees, in line with the groups written policy Remuneration Committee reviewing the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies the Committees remit is to ensure that the Company has a rigorous and reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, as set out transparent process for developing policy on executive remuneration.
the under the Internal control and risk management section below Committees key responsibilities are: reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk management function determining policy on remuneration and terms of service for senior approving, upon the recommendation of the group Finance Director, the executives, including notice periods, termination payments and appointment and termination of the head of the internal audit and risk compensation commitments in the event of early termination management function.
approving the terms of appointment for the Chairman, executive Directors and members of the Avis Executive Board In 2010 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: structuring and allocation of the groups share incentive schemes, including the setting of appropriate performance targets.
reviewing the groups draft annual financial statements, interim results statement, and interim management statements prior to Board approval In setting policy, the Committee ensures that appropriate incentives are reviewing going concern provided to attract, retain and motivate executives of the appropriate calibre, reviewing the appropriateness of the groups accounting policies and their to encourage performance and, in a fair and responsible manner, to reward compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, together with individual contributions to the group.
the Committee takes account of market material accounting estimates and judgments practice, the groups position relative to other companies and the pay and reviewing the working capital report and prospectus disclosures in employment conditions of other group employees.
the Committee consults connection with the Rights Issue with the Chairman and or Chief Executive, as appropriate, when determining reviewing a report on the groups systems of internal control and their the individual remuneration package of each executive Director.
However, no effectiveness Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
receiving regular updates on the key risk areas set out in the Risks and uncertainties section on pages 30 to 33 the activities of the Committee during the year, together with details of reviewing the proposed annual internal audit programme and receiving all Directors remuneration and service contracts are described in the regular progress reports Remuneration Report on page 34. assessing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk management function together with their resources and standing in the group the members of the Remuneration Committee are disclosed on page 25, and reviewing the effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements their attendance at meetings in the table overleaf.
there were no changes to appraising the external auditors plan, including key areas of scope and the composition of the Committee between 1 January 2010 and 25 February key areas of risk 2011.
Roland DIeteren has appointed Jean-Pierre Bizet, another DIeteren considering and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees appointed Director, who is also an executive Director, as his alternate for the payable to the groups external auditors during the year purpose of attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings.
the Company assessing external auditors effectiveness and independence, and making recommendations to the Board regarding their reappointment.
com Annual Report 2010 governance Corporate governance report continued the members of the Audit Committee are disclosed on page 25, and their the Chief Executive oversees an operating board, the Avis Executive Board attendance at meetings in the table below.
there were no changes to the AEB comprising the key senior management of the group who meet composition of the Committee between 1 January 2010 and 25 February monthly to review trading and progress with key strategic initiatives and to 2011.
As recommended by the Code, the membership of the Committee coordinate the efficient management of the business.
AEB members and comprises independent non-executive Directors.
their key responsibilities as at 31 December 2010 were as below: the group Finance Director, group Financial Controller and head of internal group audit and risk management attend meetings of the Audit Committee by Pascal Bazin Chief Executive invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
the external auditors usually Martyn Smith group Finance Director attend meetings, but are not present when the Committee discusses their Jacques Brun group HR Director performance and or remuneration.
the Committee also meets privately with Corporately-owned both the external and internal auditors without the presence of any of the operations Function territory executive directors or management.
Wolfgang Neumann Commercial germany Call centre Barcelona Board and Committee meeting attendance Stephane Soille operations Austria, Belgium the Board meets a minimum of six times each year and more frequently Luxembourg, when business needs require.
there were four additional Board meetings in Netherlands, 2010, as well as the six scheduled meetings and two scheduled conference Switzerland, calls.
Czech Republic Jan Loning Support services France the attendance of Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of the Budapest Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee Kevin Bradshaw Information technology uK during the year is detailed below: Roberto Lucchini Fleet initiatives Italy, Portugal Nominations Remuneration Audit Massimo Marsili Spain Director Board Committee Committee Committee Avis & Budget Licensees Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended John McNicholas Licensees Pascal Bazin 12 12 n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 2 Jean-Pierre Bizet 12 12 1 1 7 7 n a n a Corporately-owned operations are managed under a matrix structure with Alun Cathcart 12 11 1 1 7 6 n a n a most AEB members being responsible for both a key function operation Les Cullen 12 12 1 1 7 7 4 4 across the network as well as responsibility for overseeing the operations in 2 2 Roland DIeteren 12 10 1 0 7 0 n a n a either one or a number of countries.
Benoit ghiot 12 12 n a n a n a n a n a n a Axel von 12 6 1 1 7 4 4 2 Shareholder relations Ruedorffer the Board as a whole is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue Pierre Alain fide 12 11 1 1 7 7 4 4 with shareholders.
the Chief Executive and group Finance Director make Smedt presentations to institutional shareholders following the announcement of Martyn Smith 12 12 n a n a n a n a n a n a the interim and preliminary results each year, which are also published on the Companys website at www.
com investor-centre financial- 1 Includes one conference call.
2 Jean-Pierre Bizet attended as alternate for Roland DIeteren see page 27. reports.
aspx and are actively involved in an investor relations programme during the rest of the year.
the Chairman is also responsible for maintaining other Committees a channel through which shareholders can express their views, and for the Board also appoints other Committees from time to time to conduct communicating any shareholder issues or concerns to the Board as a whole.
routine business within delegated authority prescribed by the Board and under the supervision of at least one Board member.
the Chief Executive makes a presentation at the Annual general Meeting highlighting key business developments during the year.
All shareholders In particular, the Board has established a treasury Review Committee with have the opportunity to put questions at the meeting or leave written delegated authority to review and approve certain treasury related matters on questions, which will be answered in writing as soon as possible afterwards.
behalf of the Company and the group, including setting policy and granting A copy of the Chief Executives presentation may be requested at the Annual authority for financing decisions, bank accounts, treasury credit exposures, general Meeting or from the Investor Relations Department.
the Companys control mechanisms for hedging and foreign exchange transactions, website at www.
com provides current and past information guarantees and indemnities and, if appropriate, recommending for about the group.
the Chairman of each of the Nominations Committee, consideration by the Board other treasury management policies.
Membership Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee attended the 2010 Annual comprises the group Finance Director and senior managers, including the general Meeting and were available to answer shareholders questions during group treasurer and group Financial Controller.
com Annual Report 2010 29 External auditor Financial reporting process the Company has a written policy regarding auditor independence, which is In addition to the general internal control and risk management framework designed to maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
set out above, the following elements of our internal control system are the policy sets out the circumstances in which the external auditor may specific to the financial reporting process including the preparation of the provide non-audit services to the group and the internal approval processes groups Consolidated Financial Statements: to be followed where this is under consideration.
As noted above, the Audit Committee monitors the application of the policy and the independence of formal reporting processes and accounting policies are aligned the audit process.
the Committees policy is to review whether other firms a reporting system designed to ensure visibility and consistency should be invited to tender for the external audit role at least as frequently as of management information, intended to provide a sound basis for audit partner rotation is required.
management decision-making, both at group level and at each business unit within segments both corporately-owned and licensees A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the a ll such business units are required to produce a monthly financial report Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual general Meeting.
of business performance, including commentary analysis.
these reports are thoroughly reviewed by the Chief Executive, group Finance Director Internal control and risk management and other members of the Avis Executive Board the Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk c orporately-owned business units are required to produce weekly cash management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness of those systems.
flow forecasts, which are reviewed by group treasury as part of their Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of overall cash management processes failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and t he group finance function undertake regular technical training to ensure not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
that they are up to date on financial reporting standards and good practice a reporting review process, including regular re-forecasting, which the group has a detailed risk management process to identify, evaluate includes comparison of business unit performance and business plans to and manage the significant risks faced by the group which is overseen by identify risk areas and determine improvement actions.
the group conducts an annual risk review across all its operating units and updates its centrally held risk register with each the Board confirms that it has continued to review, through the Audit risks impact, probability and mitigation actions.
A summary of the principal Committee in particular, the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risks facing the group has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and risk management processes during 2010 and up to the date of this report communicated to the Board, and is provided in the Risks and uncertainties and that these reviews covered all material controls, including financial, section on pages 30 to 33. operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Where any weaknesses were identified, appropriate corrective action was agreed the key features of the group risk management and internal control process and continues to be closely monitored.
comprise the following procedures: Corporate governance statement clearly defined group policies and business standards covering key the Board of Directors confirms that the Company has complied throughout business areas, including a code of conduct and competition policy the financial year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined annual certification process by which the operating unit manager Code 2008 the Code, with the exception of the following requirements: responsible confirms the adequacy of their systems of internal financial control and their compliance with group policies and local laws and t hat independent non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman should regulations, and is also required to report any breakdown in control or comprise not less than 50% of the Board occurrence of fraud if they were to occur t hat the Remuneration Committee should comprise the Chairman together a schedule of regular finance reviews for all corporately-owned businesses with independent non-executive Directors covering material local assets and liabilities t he application of the Code recommendations as to independence criteria the internal audit function performs regular independent reviews, providing for Directors: and the Audit Committee with an assessment as to the adequacy of key that a Senior Independent Director be nominated.
controls over operating and financial processes and systems the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the systems of internal the reasons for non-compliance in each of the relevant areas are explained control during the financial year.
It reviews reports of any control issues within the review of the Companys application of the principles of the Code that arise from internal and external audits and any issues that relate to or set out above.
In each area of non-compliance, the Directors believe that may need to be included in the risks set out in the Risks and uncertainties current policy is in the best interests of the Company.
section on pages 30 to 33 a group-wide whistleblowing procedure is in place enabling employees to the Code is available at the Financial Reporting Councils website at raise any concerns they may have, under which matters can be advised www.
