24 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance Training including social, environmental and ethical matters is provided and has reviewed the Companys compliance with the Combined Code for new Directors as required, by means of a tailored induction, on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in and subsequently as required.
During and after induction Directors June 2008 the Code and confirms that the Company complied in all are encouraged to, and do, visit businesses across the Group and aspects with the Code throughout the year ended 30 September 2010 meet with Group and divisional management.
Directors can take as set out below.
independent professional advice where necessary at the Companys expense and have access to the services of the Company Secretary A new UK Corporate Governance Code was issued in June 2010 the whose appointment is a Board matter and who is responsible for New Code to supersede the Code and, in the case of the Company, it ensuring that the Board operates in accordance with good corporate will be effective for the year ended 30 September 2011.
It is anticipated governance under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
that the Company will be in a position to confirm compliance with the Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all Directors and New Code in all material respects.
The Board The Board met formally seven times during the year.
There was full attendance at all meetings, with the exception of Anita Frew, who The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, was unable to attend one Board meeting, which, in her absence, monitoring achievement of its business objectives and maintaining was chaired by Giles Kerr.
During the year pursuant to the Code a system of effective corporate governance, which includes the the Chairman met with the other non-executive Directors without responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
the executive Directors present on one occasion, and the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executive Directors, At the end of the year the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, without the Chairman present, on one occasion.
three other non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
Changes in the composition of the Board during the year are noted The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing in the Directors Report.
Following the year end, on 7 October 2010, Committees, as further described below, which report back to the Michael Peacock retired as Finance Director and Peter Bream was Board on the basis of clearly defined terms of reference.
appointed to the Board as the new Finance Director on 8 October 2010.
The offices of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and The terms of reference of the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration clearly distinct.
The division of their responsibilities is set out in writing Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com and has been agreed by the Board.
There is no Deputy Chairman.
and, in paper form on request, from the Registered Office of the Company.
The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Anita Frew, upon her appointment as Chairman on 1 October 2008, are all considered A formal evaluation of Board, Board Committee and individual by the Board to be independent of the management and free from Directors performance is carried out annually.
The 2010 Board any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with evaluation comprised an internal evaluation process including the exercise of their independent judgement.
Giles Kerr is the Senior questionnaires and individual meetings between the Chairman Independent Director.
and each Director and appropriate follow up discussions.
The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters reserved for its in conjunction with the Chief Executive.
The other non-executive decision, including approval of the Groups strategy, the annual budget, Directors performance is evaluated by the Chairman in consultation material capital expenditure, material contracts, customer credit limits with the executive Directors.
Executive Directors performance is above certain levels, major investments and disposals and entering reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in conjunction with the into material strategic alliances, joint ventures and partnerships.
The Chief Executive, except in the case of his own performance review.
Board delegates day to day and business management control to the executive Directors and divisional Managing Directors led by the The evaluation process concluded that the Board and its Committees Chief Executive and the Chief Executives Committee.
This Committee remain effective in fulfilling their responsibilities appropriately and that meets monthly and comprises the executive Directors, divisional each Director continues to demonstrate a valuable contribution.
Actions Managing and Finance Directors, the Group Chief Accountant and agreed as a result of the Board evaluation included the appointment the Company Secretary.
of a non-executive Director as the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee to further improve Board oversight of the risk management The Board receives sufficient management information and reports process and further development of talent management at Board and on all strategic and significant operational matters on a timely basis.
An external Board evaluation process will be Group and divisional senior executives also attend Board meetings carried out in 2011 pursuant to the New Code.
Site visits and briefings by operational management to enhance the Boards understanding of the businesses take place regularly.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with the Nominations Committee appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the external Chairman Anita Frew auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the audit and its cost The Nominations Committee, comprising all of the non-executive effectiveness.
The Committee reviews annually the independence and Directors, is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size objectivity of the external auditor taking into account the non-audit and composition of the Board, including succession planning and services provided by the firm.
identifying and recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the Board when vacancies arise.
In considering an appointment the Such non-audit services require approval by the Committee.
In Nominations Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge considering whether the provision of such services could impair the and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role external auditors independence or objectivity, the Committee is and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
External search governed by the following guidelines, which are incorporated in its consultants are then used to identify appropriate candidates.
This terms of reference: procedure was most recently applied for the appointment of Peter Bream.
The external search consultant used was Russell Reynolds.
whether the skills and experience of the external auditor make it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration: The Nominations Committee is also responsible for annually reviewing whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no the time required from each non-executive Director.
The Nominations threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit Committee met twice during the year and there was full attendance at resulting from the provision of such services by the external auditor: all meetings.
the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels individually and in aggregate relative to the audit fee: and Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM following their performing the audit.
appointment and thereafter, annually with effect from the 2011 AGM, pursuant to the New Code.
In principle the external auditor should not provide any service which: Remuneration Committee results in the external auditor auditing its own firms work: Chairman Patrick fide Smedt leads to the external auditor making a management decision for The Remuneration Committee, comprising all of the non-executive the Company: Directors excluding the Chairman, is responsible for reviewing and creates a mutuality of interest: or recommending the framework and policy for remuneration of the leads to the external auditor being put in the role of advocate for Chairman, executive Directors and senior executives, which the Board the Company.
as a whole is responsible for approving.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year and there was Once approved, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for full attendance at all meetings.
Only Committee members are entitled evaluating the performance and determining specific remuneration to attend a meeting.
However, the Chairman, the Finance Director, packages for the Chairman and each executive Director.
The senior finance executives and the External Audit Engagement Partner Chairman and executive Directors are responsible for the agreement are normally invited to attend meetings.
Others are also invited to of non-executive Directors remuneration.
A section of at least one meeting each year takes place without management present.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year and there was full attendance at all meetings.
At its meeting on 23 November 2009, the Committee reviewed the Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial Audit Committee year ended 30 September 2009 and the draft Annual Report and Chairman Giles Kerr Accounts for that year.
The external auditor reported to the Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Giles Kerr, a qualified Chartered on the conduct of its audit, its review of the accounts, including Accountant with significant relevant financial experience, and comprising accounting policies and areas of judgement, and commented on risk all of the non-executive Directors except the Chairman, is responsible management and control matters.
The results of regular internal control for assisting the Board with its responsibilities in respect of external reviews were also considered.
The Committee carried out the annual financial reporting.
This includes reviewing the Groups financial appraisal of the external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees statements, preliminary announcements and any formal announcements and the effectiveness of the audit process.
relating to financial performance, or other statements containing financial information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
At its meeting on 14 May 2010, the Committee reviewed the Companys The Committee also reviews the Groups whistleblowing policy.
interim results announcement and draft Half-yearly Financial Report.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on its review.
The Committee also considered the results of regular internal control reviews.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Governance 26 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Corporate Governance continued On 20 September 2010, the external auditor presented its proposed The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and senior fees and scope for the audit for the year ended 30 September 2010. finance executives.
The Chairman of each Committee meeting will be The Committee also carried out its annual performance appraisal and appointed on an ad hoc basis.
A quorum for a Committee meeting will terms of reference review.
The results of regular internal control reviews be any two Committee members, provided that this includes at least were also considered.
one of the Companys Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
Meetings of the Committee may be called by any member of At its meeting on 22 November 2010, the Committee reviewed the the Committee on any period of notice provided that notice is given to Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the financial all members.
year ended 30 September 2010 and the draft Annual Report and Accounts for that year.
The external auditor reported to the Committee The Committee will consider the circumstances that give rise to the on the conduct of its audit, its review of the accounts, including potential need for a disclosure, whether it is practical for the Board or policies and areas of judgement, and commented on risk management any other Board Committee to consider the potential disclosure and, and control matters.
The Committee carried out the annual appraisal if it is impractical, the form and content of a disclosure to be made on of the external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the behalf of the Board.
effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee will take advice, including advice from the Companys Risk Management Committee broker, external auditor and legal advisors, on the form and content of Chairman Lawrence Pentz any disclosure under consideration.
The Risk Management Committee is chaired by Lawrence Pentz with effect from 1 October 2010 and comprises both executive Directors, Currency Committee both divisional Managing Directors, the Company Secretary and senior Chairman David Hummel operational, SHE and Group finance executives.
The Committee is The Currency Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, and responsible for ensuring that all risks facing the Group are reduced to comprises the other executive Director, the Company Secretary and an acceptable level.
It meets monthly to review and manage the Groups currency hedging activities.
The Board is responsible for setting This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all the hedging policy.
risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, whilst recognising existing control measures, so that unacceptable risks are identified.
Currently the Group exports 98% of sales from the UK.
These sales Plans are developed and implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer are primarily denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Group hedging these risks where practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for policy is to defer the impact on profits of currency movements by reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
hedging: a minimum of 90% and a maximum of 100% of projected The Committee meets quarterly and regularly reports to the Board.
In transaction exposures arising from trading in the forthcoming six addition, the Board undertakes annually a formal review of the risk month period: and management process and the performance of the Risk Management a minimum of 75% and a maximum of 100% of projected Committee.
transaction exposures arising in the following six month period.
The VPS and Invibio divisional Risk Management Committees, Profitability can nevertheless vary due to the impact of fluctuating comprising the Directors of each division respectively along with the exchange rates on the uncovered portion of the transaction exposures Company Secretary and senior operational and SHE executives, meet and from revised forecasts of future trading, which can lead to an quarterly, report into the Group Risk Management Committee and are adjustment of currency cover in place.
The impact of this hedging policy responsible for ensuring that all risks facing the divisions are reduced to is disclosed in notes 15 and 25 to the financial statements.
Internal control Disclosure Committee The Group has complied with the Code provisions on internal control Chairman Anita Frew, David Hummel or Peter Bream by operating throughout the year ended 30 September 2010 and up to The Disclosure Committees responsibilities are to ensure that the the date of approval of this Annual Report those procedures necessary Companys obligations to make timely and accurate disclosure of to implement the recommendations of the Turnbull Committee and by information in accordance with any applicable law or regulation are reporting in accordance with these recommendations.
met in circumstances where it is impractical for the Board, or any other Board Committee with delegated responsibility, to fulfil those obligations.
In accordance with these responsibilities the Committee may make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal Relations with shareholders control which covers all controls including financial, operational, The Company is always ready, where practicable, to enter into dialogue compliance and risk management as further described below and for with institutional shareholders to promote a mutual understanding reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather of objectives.
Institutional investor relations activity is normally than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can concentrated in the periods following the announcement of the interim provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material and final results.
More broadly based presentations and site visits are misstatement or loss.
arranged when there is a sufficient demand to make it cost effective.
The AGM provides the Board with an opportunity to meet informally Control environment and communicate directly with private investors.
Voting at the AGM is The Group maintains a clearly defined and well established control conducted by way of a show of hands in order to encourage questions environment.
The Groups strategy is established and periodically from and interaction with private investors and proxy votes lodged on reviewed by the Board and key projects are considered in this context.
each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting and published on The management of the Group is delegated to the executive Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior executives as appropriate and the organisational requirements of a rapidly developing business are To ensure that the Board, particularly the non-executive Directors, regularly reviewed.
The Groups financial controls enable the Board to understands the views of major shareholders, the Companys broker meet its responsibilities for the integrity and accuracy of the Groups provides a summary of feedback from the meetings following the accounting records.
announcement of the interim and final results.
Governance The Board is also regularly provided with summaries of analysts In its reporting to shareholders, the Board aims to present a balanced views on the Company.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position institutional shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director and other and prospects.
The Groups two divisions are separately managed by non-executive Directors will attend meetings with major shareholders if divisional boards, which each submit monthly executive commentaries requested.
of financial and non-financial results through a standardised reporting process to the Board.
In addition, Head Office Group functions are consolidated with these divisions and the resulting Group position is reported monthly in a Group executive commentary to the Board.
The Group has a comprehensive process of annual budgeting, detailed monthly management reporting and regular forecasting linked to the Groups business objectives.
The Group has a clear and ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks, which is managed by the Risk Management Committee as described on page 26.
The Directors have also reviewed the internal audit procedures and have concluded that whilst there is no dedicated internal audit function, there is a rolling programme of internal control reviews carried out across the Group by the Group finance function with the senior Group finance executive reporting, with effect from 1 October 2010, to the Chairman of the Audit Committee in relation to internal control matters.
