Corporate governance continued There are no cross-directorships or significant links between directors serving on the On appointment individual directors undergo an induction programme covering, Board through involvement in other companies or bodies.
For the purpose of section amongst other things: 175 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association include a general power for the directors to authorise any matter which would or might the business of the Group: otherwise constitute or give rise to a breach of the duty of a director under this their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors: section, to avoid a situation in which a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and interest that conflicts or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
To opportunities to visit business operations.
this end procedures have been established for the disclosure of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the Board, If appropriate the induction will also include briefings on the scope of the internal where relevant.
The directors are required to complete a conflicts questionnaire, audit function and the role of the Audit Committee, meetings with the external initially on appointment and annually thereafter.
In the event of a potential conflict auditor and other areas the Company Secretary deems fit considering the directors being identified, details of that conflict would be submitted to the Board excluding area of responsibility.
Following discussion with the Chairman and senior independent the director to whom the potential conflict related for consideration and, as director, the Company Secretary provides a programme of ongoing training for appropriate, authorisation in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the the directors which covers a number of sector specific and business issues as well articles of association.
Where an authorisation was granted, it would be recorded in as legal, accounting and regulatory changes and developments relevant to a register of potential conflicts and reviewed periodically.
On an ongoing basis individual directors areas of responsibility.
Throughout their period in office the directors are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if they become aware directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and of actual or potential conflict situations or a change in circumstances relating to an industry specific environments in which it operates.
These updates are by way of existing authorisation.
To date, no conflicts of interest have been identified.
written briefings and meetings with senior executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive directors are equal members of the Board and have overall collective responsibility for the Performance evaluation Companys direction.
In particular, non-executive directors are responsible for: Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual directors takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms of reference of the bringing a wide range of skills and experience, including independent judgement Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim of improving individual on issues of strategy, performance, financial controls and systems of risk contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Groups management: performance.
This year the performance evaluation was conducted by an constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and independent external advisor, MWM Consulting MWM.
This process involved: executive directors: scrutinising and challenging performance across the Groups business: MWM devising an appropriate questionnaire, with assistance from the Chairman, assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and controls: and which was sent to all Board members: ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in MWM undertaking individual meetings with each Board member and the Company place in relation to executive directors and other senior executive roles.
Secretary on Board performance: and in conjunction with the Chairman, MWM producing a report on Board performance using the completed questionnaires and individual meetings which was sent to Board effectiveness and considered by the Nominations and Governance Committee before being Appointments to the Board discussed with Board members at the following Board meeting.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, which is based on merit and against objective criteria, for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
This is The evaluation was designed to determine whether the Board continues to be described in the section on the Nominations and Governance Committee set out on capable of providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Board, the page 53. directors are informed and up to date with the business and its goals and understand the context within which it operates.
The evaluation also included a review of the Samuel Jonah was identified as a potential candidate by internal sources and administration of the Board covering its operation, its agenda, the reports and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Nominations and Governance information produced for its consideration, committee processes and the Boards Committee on the basis of his wealth of business experience in Africa, particularly relationship with its committees.
MWM reported that the Board is strong and South Africa and Ghana where we have made important investments recently.
The Board has chosen to broaden and deepen its focus on strategic topics Combes and Stephen Pusey were proposed for appointment following assessment and to continue to strengthen its capabilities in technology and is gaining insights of their performance and their potential contribution by the Nominations and into changing consumer behaviour.
Governance Committee and the whole Board subsequently discussed the proposal before their appointments were confirmed.
The Chairman also held individual meetings with each non-executive director and the Chief Executive to discuss their individual performance.
The Chief Executive Information and professional development undertook the performance reviews for the executive directors and the senior Each member of the Board has immediate access to a dedicated online team room independent director conducted the review of the performance of the Chairman by and can access monthly information including actual financial results, reports from having individual meetings with all the other directors and the Company Secretary.
the executive directors in respect of their areas of responsibility and the Chief Following this process the senior independent director produced a written report Executives report which deals, amongst other things, with investor relations, giving which was discussed with the Chairman.
The reports findings reflected MWMs view Board members an opportunity to develop an understanding of the views of major that the Chairman provides outstanding leadership in focusing the Boards efforts investors.
These matters are discussed at each Board meeting.
From time to time and ensuring open and constructive debate.
the Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board members on matters of significance or on new opportunities.
Financial plans, including budgets and The evaluation of each of the Board committees was undertaken using observations forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive directors from the MWM report.
These were then discussed by each of the committees.
The periodically visit different parts of the Group and are provided with briefings and evaluations found that the committees operate efficiently and effectively.
information to assist them in performing their duties.
The evaluations undertaken in the 2010 financial year found the performance of The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training programmes are each director to be effective and concluded that the Board provides the effective provided and the Company Secretary organises the programmes.
Individual directors leadership and control required for a listed company.
The Nominations and are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their training needs and to take Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the steps to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Company and their directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM in July 2010 continue to be responsibilities as a director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
The Board will knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the financial a listed company.
52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
