Governance Corporate governance We are committed to high standards of corporate governance which we consider are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in us.
We expect all our directors, employees and suppliers to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
Our business principles set out the standards we set ourselves to ensure we operate lawfully, with integrity and with respect for the culture of every country in which we do business.
In March 2010 GovernanceMetrics International, a global corporate governance Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which operate ratings agency, ranked us amongst the top UK companies with an overall global within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to corporate governance rating of ten, the highest score assigned and achieved by the Board committees are given on pages 53 and 54. only 1% of the 4,216 companies rated.
Board meetings In our profile report by Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS dated The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured to allow 1 February 2010, our governance practices outperformed 98.6% of the open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing strategy, trading and financial companies in the ISS developed universe excluding US, 98.2% of the companies performance and risk management.
All substantive agenda items have comprehensive in the telecommunications sector group and 98.1% of the companies in the UK.
briefing papers, which are circulated one week before the meeting.
The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the Board at In October 2009 we received the Golden Peacock Global Award for Excellence 31 March 2010 and their attendance at scheduled Board meetings they were eligible in Corporate Governance.
to attend during the 2010 financial year: Years Meetings on Board attended Compliance with the Combined Code Sir John Bond 5 8 8 Our ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance John Buchanan 7 8 8 with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, we confirm that throughout the Vittorio Colao 3 8 8 year ended 31 March 2010 and at the date of this document we were compliant with Michel Combes since 1 June 2009 1 7 7 the provisions of, and applied the principles of, Section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Andy Halford 4 8 8 Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Combined Code can be Alan Jebson 3 8 8 found on the FRC website www.
The following section, together with the Samuel Jonah 1 8 8 Directors remuneration section on pages 57 to 67, provides detail of how we apply Nick Land 3 7 8 the principles and comply with the provisions of the Combined Code.
We have been Anne Lauvergeon 4 8 8 following the FRC consultation on further proposed changes to the Combined Code Simon Murray 3 7 8 and intend to comply with such revisions should they be adopted.
Stephen Pusey since 1 June 2009 1 7 7 Luc Vandevelde 6 7 8 Anthony Watson 4 8 8 Corporate governance statement Philip Yea 4 8 8 We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the information included in this In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings to deal corporate governance section of the annual report together with information with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another contained in the Shareholder information section on pages 125 to 131. engagement are nevertheless provided with all the papers and information relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss issues arising in the meeting with the Board organisation and structure Chairman or the Chief Executive.
The role of the Board The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and has the Division of responsibilities powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the relevant laws of The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a division of England and Wales and the articles of association of the Company.
The Board: responsibilities that is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board to ensure that no one person has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of our responsible for the operation, leadership and governance of the Board, ensuring its businesses: effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent management of the Groups business and the implementation of Board strategy from executive management: and policy.
is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: and is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our system of Board balance and independence corporate governance.
Our Board consists of 14 directors, 12 of whom served throughout the 2010 financial year.
At 31 March 2010, in addition to the Chairman, Sir John Bond, there were four The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
Michel Combes and Stephen these include: Pusey were appointed as executive directors with effect from 1 June 2009.
Group strategy and long-term plans: The Deputy Chairman, John Buchanan, is the nominated senior independent director major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: and his role includes being available for approach or representation by directors or annual budget and operating plan: significant shareholders who may feel inhibited about raising issues with the Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual review of the performance annual and half-year financial results and shareholder communications: of the Chairman and, in the event it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the system of internal control and risk management: and non-executive directors.
senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
We consider all of our present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
The The schedule is reviewed periodically.
It was last formally reviewed by the Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these Nominations and Governance Committee in March 2009, at which time it was do not conflict with their duties as directors of the Company.
Changes to the determined that no amendments were required.
commitments of the directors are reported to the Board.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 51
