Corporate governance continued We consider that the terms of reference of these committees, which are available on with related parties, as defined therein, and the Companies Act 2006 also restricts our website www.
com governance, are generally responsive to the the extent to which companies incorporated in England and Wales may enter into relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Our articles of association contain provisions regarding disclosure of interests by our directors and restrictions on their votes in circumstances involving conflicts Code of conduct of interest.
Under NASDAQ rules US companies must adopt a code of conduct applicable to In lieu of obtaining an independent review of related party transactions for all directors, officers and employees.
conflicts of interests, but in accordance with the Listing Rules, the Companies Act We have adopted a Code of Ethics in compliance with Section 406 of the US 2006 and our articles of association, we seek shareholder approval for related Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which is applicable to the senior financial and party transactions that meet certain financial thresholds or where transactions principal executive officers.
We have made our Code of Ethics available to the have unusual features.
public on our website at www.
The concept of a related party for the purposes of NASDAQs listing rules differs in We have also adopted a Group governance manual which provides the first level certain respects from the definition of a transaction with a related party under the of the framework for governance within which our businesses operate.
manual is a reference for chief executives and their teams and applies to all directors and employees.
Shareholder approval NASDAQ requires shareholder approval for certain transactions involving the sale Quorum or issuance by a listed company of share capital.
Under NASDAQ rules companies are required to have a minimum quorum of 33.33% Under the NASDAQ rules, whether shareholder approval is required for such of the shareholders of ordinary shares for shareholder meetings.
However our transactions depends on, among other things, the number of shares to be issued articles of association provide for a quorum for general meetings of shareholders of or sold in connection with a transaction, while we are bound by the provisions of two shareholders regardless of the level of their aggregate share ownership.
the Listing Rules which state that shareholder approval is required, among other things, when the size of a transaction exceeds a certain percentage of the size of Related party transactions the listed company undertaking the transaction.
The NASDAQ rules require companies to conduct appropriate reviews of related In accordance with our articles of association we also seek shareholder approval party transactions and potential conflicts of interest via the companys audit annually for issuing shares and to dis-apply the pre-emption rights that apply committee or other independent body of the board of directors.
under law in line with limit guidelines issued by investor bodies.
We are subject to extensive provisions under the Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority in the UK the Listing Rules governing transactions Report from the Audit Committee identified fraud that involved management or employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Audit Committee was also responsible for oversight of the The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation Groups compliance activities in relation to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal controls.
The Audit Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and manages the Companys relationship with Internal audit the external auditors.
The Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the scope, extent and effectiveness of the activity of the Group internal audit department and received reports from The composition of the Audit Committee is shown in the table on page 53 and its the Group Audit Director which included updates on audit activities and terms of reference can be found on the Vodafone website www.
com achievement against the Group audit plan, the results of any unsatisfactory audits governance.
By invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief and the action plans to address these areas, and resource requirements of the Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Director internal audit department.
The Audit Committee held private discussions with the of Financial Reporting, the Group Audit Director and the external auditors also Group Audit Director throughout the year.
An external evaluation of the internal attend the Audit Committee meetings.
Also invited to attend certain meetings audit department was undertaken during the year.
It was confirmed to the Audit are relevant people from the business to present sessions on issues designed Committee that internal audit operates well within the standards expected of a to enhance the Audit Committees awareness of key issues and developments company in the top ten of the FTSE.
in the business which are relevant to the Audit Committee in the performance of its role.
External auditors The Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the independence of the external During the year ended 31 March 2010 the principal activities of the Audit auditors and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process and provided Committee were as follows: the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditors.
The Audit Committee approved the scope and Financial reporting fees for audit and permitted non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP.
The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed with management and the external auditors the half-year and annual financial statements focusing on, without Private meetings were held with Deloitte LLP to ensure that there were no limitation, the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices, the restrictions on the scope of their audit and to discuss matters without management clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting standards and being present.
relevant financial and governance reporting requirements.
To aid their review, the Audit Committee considered reports from the Group Financial Controller and the Audit Committee effectiveness Director of Financial Reporting and also reports from the external auditors, The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually, and Deloitte LLP, on the scope and outcome of their half-year review and annual audit.
concluded its performance was effective.
Further details on the evaluation process can be found under Performance evaluation on page 52.
Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated its control environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit Directors reports Nick Land on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant identified frauds and any On behalf of the Audit Committee 56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
