Audit report on internal controls Report of independent registered public accounting Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, firm to the members of Vodafone Group Plc material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Vodafone Group Plc timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal and subsidiaries and applicable joint ventures the Group as of 31 March 2010 based control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
As described degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
in managements report on internal control over financial reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Vodacom In our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal Group Limited Vodacom, which became a subsidiary during the year and whose control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2010, based on the criteria established financial statements constitute 6.3% and 5.7% of net and total assets, respectively, in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 10.0% of revenue, and 1.4% of profit for the financial year of the consolidated financial Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
statements amounts as of and for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Vodacom.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Management is not required to evaluate the internal controls of entities accounted Accounting Oversight Board United States, the consolidated financial statements of for under the equity method.
Accordingly, the internal controls of these entities, the Group as of and for the year ended 31 March 2010, prepared in conformity with which contributed a net profit of 4,742 million 2009: 4,091 million to the profit for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union the financial year, have not been assessed, except relating to the Groups controls and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Our report dated over the recording and related disclosures of amounts relating to the investments 18 May 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
that are recorded in the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying managements report on Deloitte LLP internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors on the Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
London United Kingdom We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company 18 May 2010 Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
70 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010
