37 Corporate governance report Introduction Board meetings The Board remains committed to the principles of good governIn the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010, the Board met nine ance.
Using the Combined Code as a guide to the components times, with one meeting at Weir Minerals Netherlands in Venlo.
of good practice, good corporate governance is an integral part The majority of meetings were held at the Companys head office of the Boards stewardship obligations.
The interpretation of good in Glasgow with two meetings held in London at the time of the governance changes over time but the Group constantly aims Companys annual and interim announcements.
There is regular for best practice in all matters and, by doing so, promotes the contact outside formal meetings between the chairman, chief success of the business to the benefit of the shareholders.
executive and the other directors.
As part of the Boards review into its effectiveness conducted The following table identifies the attendance record of individual during the period, the Board considered its composition and skills directors at the nine board meetings held during 2010. and concluded that it has the right experience to address and Name Attendance respond to the challenges it faces.
The Combined Code Lord Smith 9 of 9 This report explains how the Company applies the principles of Keith Cochrane 9 of 9 the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code on Corporate Michael Dearden 9 of 9 Governance the Combined Code published in June 2008 and Stephen King 9 of 9 appended to the Listing Rules.
The Combined Code is available Richard Menell 8 of 9 on the Financial Reporting Council website.
During the 52 weeks Alan Mitchelson 9 of 9 John Mogford 9 of 9 ended 31 December 2010, the Company complied with all 1 Professor Ian Percy 2 of 2 provisions set out in the Combined Code.
Lord Robertson 9 of 9 In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council issued a new edition 2 Jon Stanton 7 of 7 of the Combined Code, renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Code, effective from the Companys next financial 1 Professor Ian Percy retired from the Board on 30 April 2010.
2 year, which outlines a number of changes that are designed to Jon Stanton was appointed to the Board on 19 April 2010. reinforce Board quality, focus on risk and improve accountability to shareholders.
Changes to the Board Details of the current directors of the Company are set out on The Board of directors pages 32 to 33.
Jon Stanton joined the Board on 19 April 2010 The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision.
and Professor Ian Percy retired as a director on 30 April 2010.
This schedule is reviewed regularly and includes approval of: Re-election of directors environmental, safety and health and sustainability policies The Companys articles of association require that all directors annual and half-year financial results, interim management appointed to the Board other than at an annual general meeting statements and trading updates of the Company are required to retire at the following annual general meeting when they may offer themselves for election.
dividend policy In accordance with the provisions of the New Code, the Board Board appointments has resolved that all directors will stand for re-election by the shareholders each year at the annual general meeting.
Group strategy and the annual operating budget Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration and Group corporate governance policy interests in share awards are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 51. changes to the Groups management and control structure Board information and development major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation treasury policies and on the Group and its activities.
New directors are provided with an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, site risk management strategy and the system of internal controls.
visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training is provided as necessary.
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Corporate governance report continued All directors are provided with updates on corporate governance All directors bring their own independent judgement to major matdevelopments, legislative and regulatory changes and relevant ters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors is industry and technical information.
considered by the Company to be independent.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate None of the non-executive directors has any material business information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further or other relationship with the Company or its management.
Each back-up papers and information are readily available to all directors member of the Board has considerable experience at senior level on request to the company secretary.
The chairman ensures that in other companies, which allows for well informed and broadly non-executive directors are properly briefed on any issues arising based debate.
The board structure ensures that no individual or at board meetings and non-executive directors have access to the group dominates the decision-making process.
There is a division of responsibilities between the chairman, who Board evaluation is responsible for leading and running the Board and related In line with the proposals in the New Code which provide that an matters, and the chief executive, who has executive responsibility external evaluation of the Board should be carried out at least for running the Groups business and developing the appropriate once every three years, the Board instructed an external facilitator organisational structure for a global organisation.
The chief to conduct the evaluation in 2010.
This facilitator had no other executive chairs the Group Executive Committee.
The executive directors have contracts of service with one years The evaluation focused on the following key areas: notice, whilst non-executive directors are appointed on a rotational basis for periods of up to three years.
The letters of appointment of board structure, dynamics and relationships the chairman and the non-executive directors, which are available board committees for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
executive and non-executive director succession Directors conflicts of interests identification, management and reporting of risk including non The statutory duties for directors relating to conflicts of interest, financial risk set out in the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act came into force on 1 October 2008.
Under the 2006 Act, a director must internal audit and avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect strategy.
interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the The review concluded that there was an effective Board led by a disclosure, review, authorisation and management of directors strong chairman.
A number of detailed recommendations will be conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest in accordance followed up by the chairman.
The procedure requires directors formally to Any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more notify the Board, via the company secretary, as soon as they than six years is subject to a particularly rigorous review.
become aware of any actual or potential conflict of interest with their duties to the Company or of any material change in existing Board balance and independence or potential conflicts that may have been authorised by the Board.
The Board currently comprises the chairman, chief executive, The Board continues to monitor and review potential conflicts of finance director, legal and commercial director and five non-execinterest on a regular basis.
A register is maintained of all such utive directors, all of whom are independent.
Michael Dearden is disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
Directors indemnities There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors professional advice, where appropriate, on any matter at the in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the exeCompanys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for cution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors have to the extent permitted by the 2006 Act and the Companys direct access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
In addition, directors and officers of the The company secretary is also responsible for facilitating the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes induction and professional development of the board members are covered by directors & officers liability insurance.
and information flows within the Board, its committees and between the non-executive directors and senior management.
39 Shareholders Board committees The Company is committed to a process of continual dialogue Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, with its shareholders, including making appropriate contact with all of which have written terms of reference which are available on institutional investors and their representative bodies when there the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as secretary are specific matters to discuss.
This dialogue with its institutional to all these committees.
shareholders is in the form of the Groups investor relations proGroup Executive Committee gramme.
This includes regular update meetings and presentaThe Group Executive Committee comprises the chief executive, tions with major shareholders and industry analysts.
Feedback finance director, legal and commercial director whose biographies from these presentations, which is reported to the Board, gives are on pages 32 to 33 and the three divisional managing directors investors an opportunity to comment on the quality of the commuwhose details are set out below: nications they receive in their contact with the chief executive and finance director.
Attendees at the results presentations include the Dean Jenkins 39 was appointed the Power & Industrial Divisional chairman, the executive directors, the senior independent director Managing Director on 1 January 2011 and is based in East Kilbride, and a number of the non-executive directors.
Dean, an Australian citizen, is a graduate aerospace engineer encourages communication with private shareholders throughout with extensive experience of engineering materials and logistics the year and welcomes their participation at shareholder meetbest practice, asset management, product development and ings.
In addition to the chairmans statement at the annual genbusiness restructuring.
He previously worked for Qantas Airlines eral meeting, a trading update to shareholders is given and details and the Australian listed infrastructure services company UGL Ltd, of the Companys trading activities are on display.
The direcmost recently as Chief Executive of the latters Rail Division.
tors attend the annual general meeting and the chairmen of the Steve Noon 46 is the Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to based in Fort Worth, USA.
Steve has worked with several multianswer questions.
The date of the key publications in 2011 can be nationals including Schefenacker Vision Systems, James Hardie found on the Companys website.
Industries and The Toro Company.
Before joining the Group in Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at 2007, he held the position of president of Schefenacker Vision least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company conSystems, North America.
ducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic poll Scot Smith 47 is the Minerals Divisional Managing Director based and the result of the votes including proxies is published on the in Madison, USA.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, Scot spent Companys website after the annual general meeting.
Electronic 18 years in the automotive industry with companies such as Van proxy voting, details of which are included in the notice of the Dresser Corporation, General Motors and Britax.
Within Britax, Scot 2011 annual general meeting, is available.
Voting participation at held a number of positions including marketing director, managing the annual general meetings in 2008, 2009 and 2010 was 56%, director of Britax Geco and latterly regional managing director for 64% and 63% respectively.
Communications In the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010, the Group Executive The Board considers that the annual report and financial statements Committee met 12 times.
and interim statements present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In The Group Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that addition to information which any company is under a legal or each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that regulatory requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the other business developments through the specialised trade press Board, are achieved.
and its own internal bulletins, which have wide circulation, and The Committees role includes the preparation of the Group budget through the news section on both the divisional and Company for approval by the Board, management of business performance websites.
to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining The Companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information Company information, is regularly updated and includes the on all aspects of business performance, managing and minimising presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are full year and interim results.
The website also contains an online in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coordination in areas version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual such as purchasing, branding and career development planning.
report and financial statements and the interim report.
It also approves major items of capital expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Corporate governance report continued General Administration Committee Nomination Committee The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are The members of the Committee during 2010 were Lord to allot shares under the Group Long Term Incentive Plan and Smith chairman, Keith Cochrane, Michael Dearden and Lord other matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises the Robertson.
Professor Ian Percy served on the Committee until his executive members of the Board and meets as required.
Alan Mitchelson acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year Remuneration Committee and at other times when necessary and in 2010 met two times.
The chairman of the Committee is Michael Dearden.
The other The following table identifies the attendance record of individual members of the Committee are Lord Robertson and John directors at the Committee meetings held during 2010.
Professor Ian Percy served on the Committee until his retirement on 30 April 2010.
The secretary to the Committee is Name Attendance Alan Mitchelson.
2 of 2 Lord Smith chairman The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive directors who 2 of 2 Keith Cochrane are independent of management and free from any business or 2 of 2 Michael Dearden other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise 1 1 of 1 Professor Ian Percy of their independent judgement.
No member of the Committee Lord Robertson 2 of 2 has any personal financial interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
1 Professor Ian Percy retired on 30 April 2010.
The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: its work.
to determine the policy on the remuneration and performance of The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance of executive directors of the Company the Board and its committees and identifies and recommends to the Board the appointment of new directors.
The Committees to determine the conditions of employment, including levels of terms of reference establish a framework through which it can salary, pension arrangements, bonuses and share awards of the operate to ensure the selection process of Board candidates is members of the Group Executive Committee conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
When to determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes considering candidates, the Committee evaluates the balance of and skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for the particular to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the chairman appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession planof the Board.
ning and leadership needs of the organisation and ensures that, The Committee is constituted and operated throughout 2010 on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or letter of in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Combined appointment as appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found on the are available on the Companys website.
Audit Committee The Committee met four times in 2010.
The following table The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
During 2010, identifies the attendance record of individual directors at the the other members of the Committee were Richard Menell and Committee meetings held during 2010.
The secretary to the Committee Name Attendance is Alan Mitchelson.
In addition, the chairman, chief executive, finance director, head of internal audit and external auditors attend Michael Dearden chairman 4 of 4 each meeting.
The head of internal audit and external auditors John Mogford 3 of 3 also have access to the chairman of the Committee outside formal Lord Robertson 4 of 4 Committee meetings.
Professor Ian Percy 2 of 2 1 Professor Ian Percy retired on 30 April 2010.
2 John Mogford was appointed to the Committee on 26 January 2010.
41 The Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and relevant There were three meetings in 2010, in January, March and July.
The following table identifies the attendance record of individual directors at the Committee meetings held during 2010.
The Committee has the ability to call on Group employees to assist Name Attendance in its work and also has access to independent advice.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for Stephen King chairman 3 of 3 overseeing the financial reporting and internal risk management Richard Menell 3 of 3 control functions and for making recommendations to the Board John Mogford 3 of 3 in relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
1 Professor Ian Percy 2 of 2 The Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that the financial 1 Professor Ian Percy retired on 30 April 2010. affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing statutory and The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items for considregulatory provisions and codes as are applicable to the Group eration at its meetings and within the annual audit cycle to ensure and to report on these matters to the Board.
that its work is in line with the requirements of the Combined Code.
During the March meeting, the Committee undertook a full Its duties are to: review of the audit with the Groups auditors.
consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the audiIn the course of 2010, the Committee discussed the following tors and the level of audit fee matters: discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit the annual report and financial statements, the half year report review the draft interim and annual financial statements before and interim management statements, any significant audit submission to the Board for approval issues, accounting policies and financial reporting issues and judgements identified by the finance director and the auditors discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise the annual report disclosures relevant to the Committee, including the going concern statement and the reports on risk discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal finanmanagement and internal control cial controls and any recommendations for improvement the terms of reference for the Committee consider the findings of internal investigations and managements response the internal audit scope and approach for 2010 oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and the Group accounting policies risk management the findings of internal audit reviews undertaken by pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor  LLP and the head of internal audit review the internal audit programme and its implementation the Groups risk process and the results of the compliance scorecard receive and review internal audit reports and the fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2010 review treasury policy.
the audit strategy for year end 2010 audit and The Committee also reviews the guidance issued by bodies such as the Financial Reporting Council into the work of audit the fraud and error guidelines contained in ISA240.
committees and incorporates any recommendations into its The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
Committees terms of reference can be found on the Companys website.
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of ity for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment which its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to executive management is subject to regular review and on their ongoing work to ensure the responsibility for designing, operating and monitoring both the that the independence of the Groups auditors is not threatened, system and the maintenance of effective internal control in each of particularly by the provision of non-audit services.
During the the businesses which comprise the Group.
In addition, each operfinancial year, the Committee reviewed the auditors process for ating company is responsible for the operation of key internal conensuring their independence and effectiveness and commented trols and to formally assess the effectiveness of the internal control on their internal quality control procedures.
The Committee is environment through the submission, twice yearly, of the Group satisfied as to their continued independence.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where the expected An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge the cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant auditors is in excess of 75,000. actions to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit review programme is based on a risk based approach that helps to The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policies is prioritise resource upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to delegated to the finance director who in turn monitors each of the the Group.
This process is supplemented by a number of peer Groups subsidiaries to ensure that all engagements fall within the reviews that seek to further monitor and evaluate the process of Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in internal control and share best practice around the Group.
respect of audit and assurance services of 1.6m 2009: 1.2m in respect of 2010 were approved by the Committee.
Internal audit and peer review reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee which considers and determines relevant action in Code of Conduct respect of any control issues raised.
The Weir Code of Conduct the Code was launched on the Global Intranet and Weir Group website at the end of December As part of the control framework, each Group operating company 2010.
The Code codified the Groups commitment to doing and business prepares a Risk and Control Framework for their business at all times in an ethical and transparent manner.
As part of this process, the operating sets out in a practical way the behaviours and values expected companies prepare a report identifying the relative probability from all Group employees and how they can raise concerns or and severity of the risks identified, the process for managing and ask questions.
mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes are effective.
The Code is supported by: These frameworks are considered and approved by the Group A hotline which will be available to all employees to report Executive Committee.
any concerns or apparent breaches of the Code.
This is a confidential service run by an independent provider In addition, a Group Risk and Control Framework is prepared, taking account of the significant risks identified by the individual An on-line training module which will provide an introduction units together with other Group-wide risks.
The Group Risk and to the Code and practical scenarios that may be faced by Control Framework is considered and adopted by the Board employees in their day to day work.
Further on-line training will which is responsible for the risk management strategy.
The system be introduced on a regular basis of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate A mandatory training module which is required for all high risk the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only employees on Anti Bribery and Corruption provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Further training in the form of local Town Hall meetings for individual business units.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group Risk and Control Framework and how they are managed or mitigated The Board and Group Executive Committee will regularly review are summarised on pages 34 to 36. performance against the Code.
More information on the Code can The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups be found in the Sustainability report on pages 65 to 66. system of internal control during the financial year.
This is refined Internal control as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, associated risks.
the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group Regular performance reports are provided to the executive companies.
This process has been in place throughout 2010 and directors, the Audit Committee and the Board, as appropriate.
up until the date of this report, except that it did not apply to the Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for Groups joint ventures.
The directors have overall  them are also reported.
43 In addition to the Group Risk and Control Framework, other The directors confirm that they have complied with the above procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of requirements in preparing the financial statements.
internal control are as follows: Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to the A clearly defined organisational structure within which individual best of his knowledge that: responsibilities are identified and monitored the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, A Group compliance scorecard which records compliance with liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the policies and procedures the directors report includes a fair review of the development Policies and procedures manuals which are in place and comand performance of the business and the position of the Group, municated to all Group operating companies through the Global together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Intranet.
The managing directors are responsible for ensuring that it faces.
that each company observes and implements these policies and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting procedures, which are continuously reviewed and updated records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the A comprehensive annual planning and financial reporting system financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the incorporating consolidated management accounts, which comGroup financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 pares results with forecast and the previous year on a monthly of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding and cumulative basis.
Management information systems prothe assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for vide directors with relevant and timely reports that identify signifthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
icant variations from approved forecasts, and revised forecasts Going concern for the financial year are produced four times a year.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation The Groups internal control procedures described in this section that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue The Group has board representation on each of its joint venture to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial companies where separate systems of internal control have statements.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed the been adopted.
Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the directors have considered Directors statement of responsibilities the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 111 to 120.
Each the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups regulations.
banking facilities described on page 30 of the Financial review.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements Audit and auditors for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors have prepared So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit the Group financial statements in accordance with International information as defined by section 481 of the 2006 Act of which Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European the Companys auditors are unaware.
Union and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys to: auditors are aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Alan Mitchelson Secretary state that the Group financial statements have complied with Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material 8 March 2011 departures being disclosed and explained and state for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
