43 Corporate governance report At Whitbread, we believe that good The Board ensuring that the members of the corporate governance is essential Who is on the Board of directors?
Board develop an understanding protection for our shareholders.
The Board currently comprises the of the views of the major It is about ensuring that we run Chairman, three executive directors investors: and the Company with integrity and and five independent non-executive the annual evaluation of the transparency.
In this report Simon directors, one of whom has been performance of the Board and its Barratt, General Counsel, explains appointed Senior Independent committees and implementing how the main and supporting Director.
Biographies of each of the the action required following such principles of the June 2008 Directors are set out on pages 36 evaluation.
Combined Code on Corporate and 37 of the Annual Report.
Governance which is available at The Chief Executive is responsible for: www.
Is there clarity between the roles of setting the strategic direction for the Chairman and Chief Executive?
the Company: Did Whitbread comply with the The roles of Chairman and Chief overseeing the day-to-day Combined Code?
Executive are separate, with management of the Company: During the year the Company responsibilities clearly divided the line management of senior complied with all provisions set out between them.
executives: in Section 1 of the Combined Code the activities of the Whitbread with the exception of A.
4.1, which The Chairman is responsible for: Directors Forum a group of deals with the membership of the running the Board and setting the Companys most senior Nomination Comittee.
The Board its agenda: executives: and believes that the membership of ensuring, through the General ensuring effective communication the Committee was appropriate for Counsel, that the members of with shareholders and employees.
the activities it carried out during the Board receive accurate, the year and detailed information timely and clear information How does the Board demonstrate on these activities can be found on and that there is a good flow independence?
pages 44 and 45. of information: The Board is committed to managing the Board to ensure ensuring a majority of directors are How did the Board satisfy itself that sufficient time is allowed independent.
The non-executive of the adequacy of its governance for the discussion of complex directors all act in an independent procedures?
or contentious issues: and challenging manner at The General Counsel prepared ensuring that the directors meetings.
Additionally, the a full report on the Companys continually update their Combined Code lists a number governance arrangements, which knowledge and capabilities: of circumstances that might call was considered at the January Board meeting.
In addition, Audit Nomination Remuneration 6 the Company takes the view Board Committee Committee Committee that corporate governance is not a matter for the Board or Number of meetings 11 3 5 7 its committees alone and has in the financial year developed a Code of Conduct for Anthony Habgood 11 5 7 employees.
This covers dealings with customers, suppliers and Alan Parker 11 3 government officials: safeguarding Patrick Dempsey 11 the Companys assets: keeping accurate and reliable records: Christopher Rogers 11 and avoiding conflicts of interest.
1 Richard Baker 6 1 3 Its principal message is that all 2 employees must observe a code of Wendy Becker 11 2 2 7 conduct based on honesty, integrity 3 Philip Clarke 8 1 6 and fair dealing.
The code was 4 updated during the year.
Charles Gurassa 5 2 Simon Melliss 11 3 2 Details of how Whitbread has 5 applied the main and supporting Stephen Williams 10 5 7 principles of the Combined Code with regard to remuneration can be Anthony Habgood, Alan Parker and Christopher Rogers all attended Audit Committee meetings although they are not members of that committee.
Alan Parker attended found in the Remuneration report Remuneration Committee meetings except when his own remuneration was being on page 45.
In addition, details of discussed, but is not a member of the Remuneration Committee.
the membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee 1 Richard Baker was appointed as a director on 7 September 2009.
Six Board meetings can be found on page 45. and one Audit Committee meeting were held after that date.
2 Wendy Becker was absent from one Audit Committee meeting due to work commitments.
3 Philip Clarke was absent from two Board meetings due to illness and one Board meeting due to work commitments abroad.
4 Charles Gurassa resigned as a director on 7 September 2009.
Five Board meetings and two Audit Committee meetings were held up to that date.
5 Stephen Williams was absent from one Board meeting due to work commitments.
6 Number of meetings includes three Chief Executive Succession Committee meetings.
co. uk 44 Annual Report 2009 10 the independence of a director into How are directors kept up to date appraising and approving all question and the Board is satisfied with new developments?
major capital and revenue that no such circumstances exist for During the year directors attended projects and change programmes.
any of the Companys non-executive training courses and seminars, or A post completion review of each directors.
received tailored training, on a number major project is undertaken: of relevant issues including: financial policies, controls and How does the Board operate company law: procedures manuals, which are and what were its key activities pensions: and regularly reviewed and updated: during the year?
the limits of authority, which The Board holds meetings regularly are prescribed for employees.
and, additionally, for specific The Board receives a regular investor Whitbreads organisational purposes, as and when required.
relations report, which includes share structure allows the appropriate During the year there were 11 price performance, movements in segregation of tasks: Board meetings.
Attendance by institutional holdings and the reaction the Code of Conduct, which is directors at Board meetings and of investors to the communications communicated to employees: Board committees is set out in programme.
the PwC operational audit team the table on page 43.
Before each activity, which reports on the Board meeting directors are given Internal control effectiveness of operational and timely and appropriate information, Does the Company maintain financial controls across the Group: including monthly financial and adequate systems of internal control?
the Audit Committee regularly trading reports.
The Board is responsible for the reviews the major findings from Groups systems of internal control both operational and external During the year the Board agreed and risk management, and for audit.
Further details can be the business plans for the Group, reviewing their effectiveness.
Hotels and Restuarants and systems are designed to manage Costa, set the budget for the year, rather than eliminate risk of failure Management and specialists reviewed the half year and full year to achieve business objectives.
within the finance department results, monitored the performance They can only provide reasonable, are responsible for ensuring of the businesses and approved and not absolute, assurance against the appropriate maintenance of significant transactions such as the material misstatement or loss.
financial records and processes that acquisition of Coffeeheaven.
ensure all financial information is The Board has established an relevant, reliable, in accordance with How does the Board review ongoing process for identifying, the applicable laws and regulations, its performance?
evaluating and managing the and distributed both internally During the year the performance of Groups significant risks.
This process and externally in a timely manner.
the Board, and individual directors was in place throughout the 2009 10 A review of the consolidation and contributions to the Board, are financial year and up to the date of financial statements is completed appraised by the Chairman.
The process is regularly by management to ensure that the year each director completed a reviewed by the Board and accords financial position and results of the formal questionnaire on the Boards with the internal control guidance Group are appropriately reflected.
performance and the Chairman met for directors in the Combined Code.
All financial information published or spoke to each director on a one A report of the key risks can be by the Group is subject to the to one basis.
The performance of found on pages 34 and 35. approval of the Audit Committee.
the Boards committees was also reviewed during the year.
Key elements of the Groups risk The Board, acting through the management and internal control Audit Committee, has directed the The results of the review were system include: work of PwCs operational audit discussed by the Board and the formulation, evaluation and team towards those areas of the appropriate action plans were annual approval by the Board business that are considered to be agreed.
There was a consistently of business plans and budgets.
The Committee positive response from directors on Actual results are reported approves a rolling audit programme, the effectiveness of the Board and its monthly against budget and the ensuring that all significant areas committees.
The main themes arising previous years figures.
Key risks of the business are independently from the review were around target are identified and action plans reviewed within at least a three year setting and training.
Actions to deal prepared accordingly: period.
The programme and findings with the points raised have been the production by each business of the reviews are continually implemented.
of a risks and controls matrix, assessed to ensure they take covering major risks and plans account of the latest information The performance of the Chairman which are considered regularly and, in particular, the results of the is evaluated during the year by by the management boards and annual review of internal controls.
the Senior Independent Director form the basis of the Group risks The effectiveness of the operational who reviews the Chairmans matrix considered by the Audit audit team is reviewed annually by performance with each of the Committee: the Committee.
The Committee directors and discusses the results a regular review by the Board of considers the principal risks with the Chairman.
changes in the major risks facing identified by the risk management the Group and development of process which are also considered appropriate action plans: by the main and management the consideration of risks and boards throughout the year.
appropriate action plans, when 45 Board committees The terms of reference of the a series of interviews with each What committees does the external and operational audits are candidate was held in January Board have?
considered each year along with and February.
Psychometric The Company has an Audit the effectiveness of the Committee assessments were carried out Committee, a Nomination Committee itself.
The Committee also meets and references were taken.
The with both the external and meeting of the Committee on 24 committees operate within defined operational auditors without the February 2010, it was unanimously terms of reference, copies of which executive team being present.
agreed that Andy Harrison be can be found on the Companys recommended to the Board for website: www.
The Remuneration Committee the role of Chief Executive.
At a Board is satisfied that at least one Board Meeting on 3 March 2010 member of the Audit Committee Members of Committee: the Chairman made a formal has recent and relevant financial proposal which was seconded by Philip Clarke Chairman experience but has determined not Alan Parker that Andy Harrison to identify any individual as having Anthony Habgood be appointed as Chief Executive such experience.
Designate, joining the Company on Wendy Becker 1 September in that role and then Audit Committee Stephen Williams as Chief Executive on 25 November 2010 on Alan Parkers retirement.
Members of Committee: The Remuneration Committees This proposal was unanimously role is to assist the Board in agreed and Andy's appointment Simon Melliss Chairman determining the remuneration of was publicly announced.
Richard Baker the executive directors and the Chairman, approving the executive Nomination Committee General Wendy Becker incentive schemes and monitoring the remuneration of other senior Members of Committee: The Audit Committee comprises executives.
Full details of the Anthony Habgood Chairman three non-executive directors under Committees work are set out in the the chairmanship of Simon Melliss remuneration report on pages 47 Simon Mellis who is Group Financial Director of to 50.
Richard Baker replaced Charles Gurassa on this Nomination Committee Stephen Williams committee when he retired from Chief Executive succession the Board.
Members of Committee: The Nomination Committee The Committee generally holds assesses the level of experience Anthony Habgood Chairman three meetings in a year.
In and capability of the Board and October and April each year the Richard Baker makes recommendations to the Committee considers the half Board on new appointments.
During Wendy Becker and full year financial statements the current year it recommended respectively.
As part of that process Philip Clarke the appointment of Richard Baker the management team present having appointed an external search Simon Melliss the statements to the Committee consultancy.
The appointment with the external auditors Ernst & Stephen Williams followed the retirement of Charles Young and operational auditors Gurassa.
Richard Baker was chosen PwC present.
Ernst & Young It was announced in early March for his wealth of experience in present a paper on the audit review that Andy Harrison will succeed customer-facing industries and his process and the main points of Alan Parker as Chief Executive experience at senior Board level.
PwC when he retires in November 2010. report on the internal audits carried A Committee of the Chairman and out in the respective periods.
all the non-executive directors was set up to oversee the selection In March each year the Committee process.
The recruitment firm, considers internal control processes Spencer Stuart was appointed including Treasury, Tax and retail by the Committee.
Following a audit reports along with a Group review of their initial report, a list of risk analysis.
candidates was compiled and http: annualreport.
co. uk 46 Annual Report 2009 10 Shareholder relations How does the Company interact Any shareholder may contact the with private investors?
Chairman or, if appropriate, the Annual and interim results Senior Independent Director to presentations are webcast live so raise any issue, including those that all shareholders can receive relating to strategy and governance.
the same information at the same Alternatively, shareholders may time.
The Company has taken raise any such issues with one or advantage of the provisions in the all of the non-executive directors Companies Act 2006, which allows of the Company.
The General communication to be made to Counsel can facilitate any such shareholders electronically unless communication if requested.
they have requested hard copy documentation.
The Companys Recent topics of interest to investors website provides comprehensive have been the performance of information for private shareholders, Premier Inn during the recession with the Annual Report and and its growth in the UK.
Accounts, trading statements, interim management statements How does the Company interact and public announcements all being with institutional investors?
Institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts are briefed at Private shareholders have the regular meetings and presentations.
opportunity to put questions to Following the full year and interim the Board at the Annual General results in April and October Meeting and at all other times respectively, the Chief Executive by emailing or writing to the and the Finance Director have Company.
Wherever possible, all meetings with institutional investors.
At the An Investor Day was held on 28 2010 AGM, all voting will be by January 2010, at which presentations poll.
Electronic handsets will be were made by the Chief Executive, utilised and results will be displayed Finance Director and the Managing on the screen at the meeting.
In Directors of the businesses.
A large addition, the audited poll results number of investors attended.
The will be disclosed on the Companys Chairman and a non-executive website following the meeting, and director were also present at that announced by regulatory news meeting.
The Chairman also had service.
The information that is meetings with a number of the required by DTR 7.2.
6, information largest shareholders in the Company relating to the share capital of the during the year and spoke to them Company, can be found within the following the announcement of Directors Report on pages 39 Andy Harrison's appointment.
At and 40. the annual Board Strategy meeting on 17 November 2009, reports were presented which described the views of major shareholders of the Company and its current strategy.
It is therefore believed that the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, has an adequate understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
No other meetings have been requested by shareholders with the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive directors are able to attend these meetings and would do so if requested by major shareholders.
