28 Corporate governance report Combined code In light of recent Board changes the process for in tHis seCtiOn The Board has prepared this report with the external review of the performance of the reference to the UK Combined Code of Corporate Board, which had been scheduled for the early 28 Combined code Governance issued by the Financial Reporting part of 2010, has been postponed and will now Council as revised in June 2008. take place in the second half of the current 28 The Board financial year.
In the meantime, however, a 28 Membership During the year the Group has developed, and review process has been commissioned as to the 28 Performance evaluation the Board has approved, a Corporate Governance effectiveness of the individual board committees, and training Compliance Statement which sets out how the and of their members, which will take place 29 Senior Independent Director Group complies with each of the provisions of the during the first half of the current financial year.
That document also sets out the That committee review will be conducted by an 29 Board responsibilities statement of the division of responsibilities external agency and the results and any major 29 Executive Board between the Chairman and the Chief Executive findings of that process will be considered and, 29 Committees of the Board Officer, the list of matters reserved to the Board, as appropriate, acted upon in the second half of 30 Nomination Committee the membership of the Board and of the various the financial year.
30 Remuneration Committee Board Committees together with the terms 30 Audit Committee of reference of the various standing Board A full external review of the Board, the standing 31 Corporate Compliance and Committees.
This document is available in the Board Committees and the individual Directors Responsibility Committee Investor relations section of the Groups website, will be carried out before the end of the 2011 12 www.
co. uk corporate financial year and any major findings will be 31 Shareholder relations reported upon in the Corporate governance 31 UK Corporate governance code the Board report for the period ending in January 2012. a Membership On 31 January 2010, the Board comprised The Board is satisfied that, in the light of changed a Non-Executive Chairman, four Executive circumstances that exist at the time of the Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
publication of this report, the arrangements for review and appraisal of the performance There is a clear division of responsibilities of the Board, its Committees and individual between the Non-Executive Chairman and Directors are appropriate.
The Board is the Chief Executive CEO, which has been also confident that the initiatives it has set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
commenced will enable the Group to satisfy any recommendations of the revised Combined Code Marc Bolland resigned from the Board on the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation 1 February 2010.
Dalton Philips joined the Board to Board evaluation which it is understood will on 29 March 2010.
On 31 December 2009, come into force during the current financial year.
Susan Murray retired as a Non-Executive Director.
On 1 January 2010 and 1 February During the course of the 2009 10 financial 2010 respectively, Penny Hughes and Johanna year, the Group has put in place a series of Waterous joined the Group as Non-Executive Board training sessions, presented by the Directors.
Throughout the period, the majority Groups external financial advisers on various of the Board consisted of independent Nonkey issues of importance to the Group.
Details of appointments, training was designed to address matters of roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set specific relevance to the Group and covered out on page 26. a range of topics including: b Performance evaluation and training Listing rules obligations: The performance of the Board, its committees and its Directors are assessed and appraised developments in corporate governance regularly.
The Chairman is responsible for practices and policies: and monitoring the performance of the Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible Directors duties.
for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors.
The training programme now established is intended to be refreshed and updated so that regular updates are provided to the Board on key governance, corporate practice and legal accounting issues.
Throughout the financial year 2009 10 the Group has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and applied its principles, as reported below in this Corporate governance report, except in the following area: Combined Code provision Status Explanation The Audit Committee did not have a Philip Cox was appointed as chair C. 3.1 member with recent relevant financial of the Audit Committee on 4 June At least one member of the audit experience for the whole year.
He has recent and relevant committee has recent relevant financial experience.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 29 c Senior independent Director executive Board The Board delegates day-to-day operational responsibility to the Executive Board.
The CEO, Paul Manduca, the Senior Independent Director SID, is available to shareholders Group Finance Director, Group Retail Director, and Group Trading Director are all members of the Executive Board.
as an alternative to the Chairman, CEO and the Group Finance Director.
The SID ensures Committees of the Board that he is available to meet shareholders during the year and reports any relevant The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility CCR Committees.
findings to the Board or Chairman.
During the year, the membership of those Committees was: d Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied Committee membership range of skills and experience to the Group.
name nomination Remuneration audit CCR The Board is satisfied that all Non-Executive Marc Bolland Directors, including the Non-Executive Brian Flanagan Chairman, remain independent according to the definition contained in the Combined Code.
Sir Ian Gibson No Non-Executive Director: Paul Manduca Nigel Robertson has previously been employed by the Group Philip Cox within the last five years: Susan Murray has had a material business relationship with Martyn Jones the Group within the last three years: Chair of the Committee receives remuneration other than Directors fees: The Directors attended the following number of Board and Committee meetings: number of meetings Board nomination Remuneration audit CCR has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, Directors or senior employees: Marc Bolland 12 14 4 9 1 1 Philip Cox 10 12 1 1 4 4 holds cross-directorships or has significant links Brian Flanagan 12 14 9 9 9 13 5 6 with other directors through involvement in Sir Ian Gibson 14 14 9 9 12 13 1 1 other companies or bodies: Mark Gunter 14 14 represents a significant shareholder: or Penny Hughes 1 2 Martyn Jones 14 14 1 1 has served on the Board for more than Paul Manduca 12 14 9 9 11 13 4 4 nine years.
Susan Murray 12 14 5 5 8 8 5 5 All Non-Executive Directors are provided with Richard Pennycook 14 14 a comprehensive, formal and tailored induction Nigel Robertson 13 14 9 9 13 13 6 6 1 1 to the business.
The minimum time commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of insurance cover for Directors to defend day per month attendance at meetings, together themselves against legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently 60m in aggregate.
with attendance at the Annual General Meeting, Board away days and site visits, plus adequate Full terms of reference of the Committees are available on request and in the Corporate preparation time.
The Board is satisfied that Governance Compliance Statement set out in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website each of the Non-Executive Directors commits www.
co. uk corporate sufficient time to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance and operations of the Group.
e Board responsibilities The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, critical operational issues and risks.
The Board also approves all circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to shareholders including the Annual report, half yearly financial report and interim management statements.
The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains unaltered and further details are available in the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement set out in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Governance 26 42 30 Corporate governance report continued a Nomination Committee c Audit Committee The Audit Committee oversees the Groups During the year the activities of the Committee relationship with the external auditors.
Private The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee were focused on recruiting two Non-Executive the responsibility for reviewing on its behalf and meetings are held with the external auditors, Directors and a new Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose of making recommendations to the Board as to: these meetings is to understand their views on The Committee engaged an executive search the control and governance environment and the integrity of financial reports: agency, MWM Consulting, to identify candidates managements effectiveness within it.
To fulfil who were then interviewed by members of the its responsibilities in respect of the independence the effectiveness of the Groups internal Committee.
Meetings also took place with other control and risk management system: and and effectiveness of the external auditors, Executive Directors as appropriate.
Following the Committee reviewed: this process, the Nomination Committee the independence of the external auditors.
recommended the appointments of Penny the terms, areas of responsibility, duties and Hughes and Johanna Waterous to the Main Board.
The Audit Committees responsibilities have scope of work of the external auditors as set out in the engagement letter: not changed during the year.
The Committee also engaged MWM Consulting to assist in the process of identification of the external auditors work plan for the Group: The Audit Committee regularly considers the external candidates for the position of CEO professional development needs of its members, who were then interviewed by members of the the detailed findings of the audit, including a and whether adequate technical information is Committee.
The Committee considered both being provided.
Where necessary, it will seek discussion of any major issues that arose during internal and external candidates and internal the audit: independent external advice at the Groups presentations and interviews were also expense, with such arrangements made through conducted.
That process culminated in the the letter from KPMG Audit Plc confirming the Company Secretary.
appointment of Dalton Philips as CEO its independence and objectivity: and announced on 27 January 2010.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Philip Cox who has the requisite recent and relevant the audit fee and the extent of non-audit b Remuneration Committee services provided by the external auditors.
The Chairman, the CEO, The objective of the Groups remuneration the Group Finance Director, the Head of Risk policy is to encourage a strong performance In this period the external auditors have and Internal Audit and other finance culture and emphasise long term shareholder department representatives have attended continued to provide a significant level of value creation.
The intention is to position non-audit work, primarily to provide the Board meetings by invitation.
remuneration arrangements competitively with independent assurance in respect of IT against the market, with a clear reward structure systems replacement.
The Board believes that i O verview of actions taken by the Audit to enable the Group to attract, retain and Committee in discharging its duties this activity is a reasonable extension of their motivate the best talent who are key to the The Committee has received and reviewed statutory audit work and that there are Groups recent and future success.
reports and presentations from senior safeguards in place to avoid a threat to their management to fulfil its terms of reference.
The Board has The Human Resources Director has advised To meet its responsibilities in this respect, a policy on the engagement of the external the Group on all remuneration related matters, the Committee considered: auditors to supply non-audit services and the including pensions and Executive Directors Committee has reviewed the scope of contracts.
Where necessary this advice was interim and preliminary announcements, non-audit services provided by the external supplemented by external advisers.
together with any other formal announcements auditors to ensure that there was no impairment relating to financial performance: of objectivity.
The committee also receives advice from its appointed advisers Hewitt New Bridge Street the accounting principles, policies and KPMG also follows its own ethical guidelines and on remuneration matters, Pension Capital procedures adopted in the Groups financial continually reviews its audit team to ensure that Strategies Limited a member of the Jardine statements, including, where necessary, its independence is not compromised.
Lloyd Thompson Group in respect of pensions, challenging the judgements made: and and Ashurst LLP in respect of Executive ii Internal control Directors contracts.
the potential effects of tax and pensions The Board is responsible for setting a system accounting and other significant judgemental of internal controls for the Group and reviewing and complex accounting issues dealt with its effectiveness.
Executive management is in the accounts.
responsible for implementing and maintaining the system of controls.
This system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not meeting the Groups strategic objectives, whilst recognising that certain inherent risks may be outside the Groups control.
The Board recognises that any system of internal control can only seek to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 31 The Board delegates to the Audit Committee The Committees remit does not cover operational matters but it performs an oversight, the review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
monitoring and advisory role in relation to these key areas in the Companys governance During the year, the Committee discharged this responsibility by: and development.
receiving and considering regular reports from The Committee, which reports to the Board, was set up and met once during the financial year the internal audit function on the status of internal control and risk management systems and, as well as agreeing its terms of reference, it received presentations on the Groups CSR, across the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the departments findings, annual health and safety and competition compliance policies and procedures.
plan and the resources available to it to perform its work: shareholder relations reviewing the external auditors management The CEO and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional letters on internal financial control: shareholders.
The Investor Relations Director also maintains a programme of work that reports seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness of the management of key to the Board the requirements and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This risk areas: and is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements response to identified All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, audit issues.
attend the AGM unless unavoidably unable to do so.
The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Head of Risk and Internal Audit on any The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, whistle blowing activity in respect of concerns expressed by colleagues about possible Remuneration and CCR Committees are malpractice or wrongdoing.
Whilst there were available to answer any questions.
no significant concerns raised by colleagues, all actions required were discussed and agreed Additionally, the Groups brokers sought with the Committee.
independent feedback from investors following the annual and interim results in 2009.
The Board is satisfied that a continual process for This feedback was reported to the Board.
identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the financial year and uK Corporate governance Code up to the date of this Annual report.
To date, no The Board has been kept fully up to date by material financial problems have been identified the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk that would affect the results reported in these and Internal Audit as to the developments in financial statements.
The Board confirms that corporate governance following the Walker if significant weaknesses had been identified Review and during the Financial Reporting during this review the Board would have taken Councils review of the Combined Code.
The the necessary steps to remedy them.
review process for the Combined Code is ongoing and the Group has participated, where it felt it d Corporate Compliance and appropriate to do so, in the consultation process.
Responsibility Committee CCR The CCR Committee, chaired by a Non-Executive The Board is confident that its corporate Director, Nigel Robertson, reviews and oversees governance policies and procedures are the development and implementation of policy appropriate and will ensure that it remains able in relation to health and safety, environmental, to comply with or explain clearly any divergences competitive and ethical compliance, corporate from the proposed new UK Corporate social responsibility CSR, including the Groups Governance Code.
engagement with community organisations and charitable bodies, and governance and other reputational management issues.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Governance 26 42
