Corporate governance report including the report of the Audit Committee Director re-election Compliance with the Combined Code It has been Board policy that Non Executive Directors are The Board is committed to the highest standards of normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which corporate governance.
It recognises that it is accountable isthen reviewed and extended for up to a further two tothe Companys shareholders for good governance, three-year periods.
It is also Board policy that Non Executive tofacilitate efficient and effective management in order Directors should not generally serve on the Board for more todeliver shareholder value over the long term, within than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to appropriately established risk parameters.
exceed this period, the Director concerned will retire annually At the date of this report, the principal governance rules and offer himself for re-election.
The Companys Articles of applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Association also provide that one-third of the Directors Exchange are contained in the Combined Code on should retire by rotation each year and that each Director will Corporate Governance the Code, as adopted by seek re-election by the shareholders at the Annual General theFinancial Reporting Council the FRC in 2008 Meeting at least once every three years.
In May 2010, following lengthy Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first review and consultation, the FRC published a new code, the opportunity after their appointment.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code In accordance with a new provision included in the which will replace the Code for financial years beginning on Governance Code, all Directors will seek re-election at the or after 29 June 2010.
The FRC has stated that changes next Annual General Meeting.
Although this provision of the have been made to help company boards to become more Governance Code would not apply to the Company until the effective and more accountable to shareholders.
This report, financial year ending 31 July 2011, the Board has decided to including the report from the Audit Committee and the comply this year.
Mr Martin will seek election having been Remuneration report, describes how the Board applied the appointed to the Board during the year.
principles of good governance, as contained in section 1 of the Code, andseeks to demonstrate how those principles Division of responsibilities have been applied during the year under review.
Where The distinct roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are applicable, theCompany has already adopted principles acknowledged, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall leadership and governance of the Board and for ensuring that the Directors Board organisation and structure have an understanding of the views of the Companys major Board composition, constitution and independence shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the effective leadership of the Company, management and As at 31 July 2010, the Board of Directors was made up development of the Group and for delivery of the Companys of10members consisting of the Chairman, three Executive agreed objectives and strategy.
Directors and six Non Executive Directors.
During the year, two new Non Executive Directors were appointed to the Board.
Although permitted under the Code, the Chairman has Alain Le Goff was appointed with effect from 1September confirmed that he does not chair any other board of directors 2009 and Michael Wareing with effect from 1October 2009. in the FTSE 100.
Gareth Davis is the Companys Senior In addition, Robert Marchbank stepped down from the Board Independent Director.
His role includes being available for on1March 2010 and Stephen Webster stepped down on approach or representation from investors and shareholders, 31March 2010 and was replaced by JohnMartin who was where communication through the Chairman or the Executive appointed to the Board as Chief Financial officer on 1 April Directors may not seem appropriate.
As noted on page 3, MrWhybrow will step down from Committee, as well as the Board as a whole, considers the Board at the end of the Annual General Meeting to be succession planning and the appropriate composition held on 20 January 2011 and will be succeeded by Mr Davis oftheBoard.
Biographical details of eachof the Directors currently in ofce are shown on pages 42 to 43.
Board effectiveness The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an Board procedures and responsibilities ad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs.
A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion by the TheBoards primary role is to provide effective and Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved and entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Groups other key issues are considered at appropriate times.
business objectives to be met and to review the overall TheBoard met eight times during the year and Director strategic development of the Group as a whole.
It has a attendance is shown in the table on page 45.
Together with formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Company while day-to-day operational decisions are managed by the Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept Executive Committee.
properly informed and is consulted on all matters reserved Each of the Non Executive Directors brings his own senior toit.
In accordance with the Code, Board papers and other level of experience and expertise to the Board.
The Chairman information are delivered at times to allow Directors to be and the Non Executive Directors are each considered by the properly briefed in advance of meetings to ensure that Board to be independent of management and free of any theyare provided with sufficient resources to undertake relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise theirduties.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and the remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report.
44 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Meeting attendance eligibility at Board meetings During 2010, the Audit and Remuneration Committees each held during the year ended 31 July 2010: conducted a detailed assessment of their own effectiveness, using a set of questions which had been adapted to J W Whybrow Chairman 8 8 addressthe activities and concerns of each Committee.
G Davis Non Executive Director 8 8 Thequestions were in the form of online surveys which A J Duff Non Executive Director 8 8 encouraged comment and qualitative evaluation of each a Committees effectiveness, its individual members and the A Le Goff Non Executive Director 8 8 b contributions received from advisers.
The results of the R H Marchbank Chief Executive, Europe 5 5 c surveys formed the basis of discussion of areas for further J W Martin Chief Financial officer 2 2 improvement by each Committee and actions were then I K Meakins Group Chief Executive 8 8 taken to change the scope, content and timing of items J I K Murray Non Executive Director 8 8 tobeconsidered by each Committee.
F W Roach Chief Executive, North America 8 8 N M Stein Non Executive Director 8 8 The Board and its Committees will continue to critically d M P Wareing Non Executive Director 7 7 review their procedures, effectiveness and development e S P Webster Chief Financial officer 6 6 throughout the year ahead and the Chairman has reiterated that should any Director have any concerns or observations a.
Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 September 2009. which they wish to raise, these should be notied to him b.
Left the Company on 1 March 2010. directly or to the Group Company Secretary.
c. Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2010. d. Appointed to the Board with effect from 1 October 2009.
External directorships e. Left the Company on 31 March 2010.
As part of their continuing development, the Executive Directors are encouraged to take on not more than one The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed external non executive directorship on the board of a necessary, to take independent professional advice at the non-competitor company, for which they may retain Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is payments received in respect of such appointment, as the in addition to the direct access that every Director has to the Board believes there are significant benets to be achieved Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board for both the Company and the individual.
In order to avoid procedures are followed and that good corporate governance any conict of interest, all appointments are subject to the and compliance is implemented throughout the Group.
The Board monitors the extent of Directors Following their appointment, formal comprehensive and other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the Board tailored induction is offered to all Directors.
Details of such external appointments supplemented by meetings, as required, with major are shown in the biographical details of the Directors shareholders, visits to key locations within the Group and currently in ofce onpage 42 to 43. meetings with members of the Executive Committee and Succession planning other senior executives.
Meetings led by the Senior Independent Director between the Non Executive Directors, The Nominations Committee has specic responsibilities both with and without the presence of the Chairman and the forsuccession planning to ensure that the Board has Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Boards annual thecorrect balance of individuals to discharge its duties timetable.
The Board endeavours to hold at least two Board effectively.
In addition, during the year, the Board as a whole meetings each year at operating locations to help all Board took a more active involvement in the development of the members gain a deeper understanding of the business, Companys succession processes.
The senior leadership whilst also providing senior managers from across the Group team was reviewed in more depth, both individually and as the opportunity to present to the Board and to meet the awhole, anditwas agreed that this more detailed process Directors on more informal occasions.
Actionplans have already been implemented following theidentication of succession Board evaluation weaknesses and clear communication plans are also in Each of the Directors continues to be considered by the place.
The overall aim of thisyears review was to ensure Board to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to thatemployees with the required skills, experience and hisrespective role.
A recommendation from recent UK knowledge are being suitably developed for the future and governance reports, including the Walker Report and the that adequate procedures are in place to encourage the Governance Code, was that external Board performance development of talent across the Group.
evaluation be completed every three years.
Consistent Indemnities withthis recommendation, a full evaluation of the Boards own performance and that of the individual Directors was In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, completed with the assistance of an external facilitator during the Company has always indemnified its Directors in respect 2009.
Using the results of that review, this year the Board of liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce to the maximum further analysed its performance and effectiveness and extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third-party indemnity focused, in particular, on the areas forimprovement that had provisions as dened in section 234 of the Companies Act been previously identied.
Thechanges to the composition of 2006 have been granted to all Directors in ofce and to the the Board, improved succession planning and the increased Group Company Secretary and these remain in force as at focus on customer service, have contributed to the the date of this report.
The Company has also arranged effectiveness ofthe Boards performance.
appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legalaction against its Directors and Ofcers.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have actedfraudulently ordishonestly.
Wolseley plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight Committees responsibilities assigned to it by the Board.
It reports regularly The Committees of the Board consist of the Audit, to the Board on compliance in relation to the business Remuneration, Nominations, Disclosure and Treasury activities for which it has responsibility within its terms of Committees.
In addition, executive and management matters reference.
Audit Committee members are expected to have are addressed by the Executive Committee and other an understanding of the following areas: committees to whom specic authority has been delegated the principles of, contents of and developments in financial to implement Board strategy or policy.
The formal terms of reporting, including the applicable accounting standards reference for the Board Committees, which have been and statements of recommended practice and, approved by the Board and comply with the Code, are inparticular, the appropriateness of the Companys available from the Group Company Secretary and can also accounting policies and integrity of the financial statements: be found on the Companys website at www.
the Companys wider corporate policies and its nancing: Membership and activities of the various Committees are and: summarised below.
The Group Company Secretary and the Companys systems of internal control and matters General Counsel, whose appointment and removal is a thatrequire the use of judgement in the presentation matter for the Board as a whole, acts as Secretary to all ofaccounts and key gures as well as the role of internal Board Committees.
Audit Committee Nominations Committee Members and attendance eligibility at meetings Members and attendance eligibility at meetings heldduring the year ended 31 July 2010: heldduring the year ended 31 July 2010: Chairman M P Wareing 3 3 Chairman J Whybrow 5 5 Members G Davis 4 4 Members G Davis 5 5 J I K Murray 4 4 A J Duff 4 5 N M Stein 4 4 A Le Goff 5 5 J I K Murray 5 5 The Committee is made up of four Non Executive Directorsand the Board considers that each member of N M Stein 5 5 theCommittee is independent within the denition set out M P Wareing 3 4 inthe Code.
The Committees membership is reviewed by Owing to attendance at another Committee meeting and to a prior overseas the Nominations Committee and by the Chair of the Audit business commitment, two Directors were each unable to attend a Committee at regular intervals.
Members of the Committee Nominations Committee meeting, which had been scheduled at relatively are appointed by the Board following recommendations by shortnotice.
All members of the Committee The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition receive appropriate induction, which is in addition to the of the Board and its Committees.
It makes recommendations induction which all new Directors receive and includes an with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
both in the identication and nomination of new Directors Members of the Committee may undertake ongoing training andthe continuation of existing Directors in ofce.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant isaformal procedure in place for selecting and recruiting experience at a senior executive level.
In addition to the Directors.
The Committee evaluates the balance of skills, existing members of the Audit Committee, Mr Wareing, who knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of was International Chief Executive of KPMG until his retirement thatevaluation, it prepares the description of the relevant in September 2009, provides the Board with further roleandcapabilities required of prospective candidates.
assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate Afterarigorous interview process of shortlisted candidates, skills and experience and that it meets the Code requirements the Committee makes its recommendations to the Board.
that at least one member of the Committee has significant, TheCommittee retains external search consultants for recent and relevant financial experience.
The expertise and appointments to the Board.
Mr Whybrow would not chair the experience of each of the members of the Committee are Committee or attend if it were to consider the appointment summarised on pages 42 to 43. ofa successor Chairman.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Board appointments although the Board itself has overall responsibility for succession generally.
The Committee meets as required and the matters discussed during the financial year ended 31 July 2010 primarily related to the changes of Executive Board members and the resulting succession plans.
46 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration Committee Treasury Committee Members and attendance eligibility at meetings Chairman J W Martin Chief Financial officer heldduring the year ended 31 July 2010: Members I K Meakins Group Chief Executive Chairman A J Duff 6 6 M J R Verrier Group Treasurer M P Wareing Non Executive Director Members G Davis 6 6 M J Webb Group Financial Controller A Le Goff 1 1 N M Stein 6 6 The Committees role is to consider treasury policy, including financial structures and investments, tax strategy and All the members of the Remuneration Committee are hedging policies and certain transactions on behalf of considered independent within the denition set out in the theGroup, within a framework delegated by the Board.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and updated On1October 2009, Derek Harding Director of Group its terms of reference to take into account developments Strategy and Investor Relations joined the Committee: ingovernance relating to remuneration and comments hethen resigned his position in May 2010 following his madeinpublic consultation documents or reports on the appointment to a different role within the Group, as Finance subject ofgood practice regarding executive remuneration.
Mr Martin replaced Mr Webster on TheCommittee has also conducted a detailed effectiveness the Committee on his appointment as Chief Financial officer survey to address its activities and to raise any concerns on 1 April 2010 and Mr Webb, Group Financial Controller, from both members and attendees of the Committee.
joined the Committee with effect from 1 August 2010.
Theresults of the survey showed that the Committee hadbeen performing effectively: however, it highlighted Executive Committee someareas for improvement which the Committee has Chairman I K Meakins Group Chief Executive undertaken to adopt.
Members S Ashmore Managing Director, UK The Committee has delegated authority to deal, on behalf of P Gardies Managing Director, France the Board, with all remuneration matters, including pension J W Martin Chief Financial officer entitlements and any compensation payments.
It is C R Morrison Group HR Director responsible for setting the remuneration of the Executive F W Roach Chief Executive officer, Directors and the Group Company Secretary in accordance NorthAmerica with the remuneration policy approved by the Board.
It is also R I Shoylekov Group Company Secretary responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and for and General Counsel monitoring and approving the remuneration policy in relation S Weirse Managing Director, to senior management below Board level.
As part of the NordicRegion review of its terms of reference, the increased scope of the Committees role in setting the overarching principles and The Executive Committee meets at least 10 times each year parameters of remuneration policy for the Group as a whole and these meetings usually take place prior to Board were updated.
The Committee prepares, for the Boards meetings.
The Committee addresses operational business approval, the Remuneration report, which is presented to issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
The chairman and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to business performance.
respond to any questions shareholders may raise on the Committees activities.
Disclosure Committee Chairman J W Martin Chief Financial officer Members M J Fearon Group Communications and Investor Relations Director I K Meakins Group Chief Executive R I Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel J W Whybrow Chairman The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all matters relating to public announcements of the Company and, in particular, the Companys obligations under the Listing and Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
TheCommittee also assists in the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of the Companys disclosure controls and procedures.
Wolseley plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued the Companys Interim Management Statements and all proposed announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that they contained material financial information: documentation relating to tax-related matters associated with the Groups corporate structure: accounting and auditing issues: Report from the Audit Committee review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function The composition, attendance and responsibilities of the andthe review of the effectiveness and continued Audit Committee are set out on page 46. independence of the external auditor: litigation, contingent liabilities and tax matters, including Structure compliance with statutory tax obligations: The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and fraud reports and the operation of the Companys itsagenda is linked to events in the Companys financial whistleblowing policy: calendar.
The Committee reviews the Companys policies and procedures relating to governance, risk and control the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and and, in addition to the regular items, each member of the risk management procedures: Committee may request reports on matters of interest.
the updated Company policies and procedures relating to The Committee invites the Chairman, Group Chief fraud and the prevention of corruption and the Companys Executive, Chief Financial officer, Group Financial Controller new Code of Conduct: and and the Head of Internal Audit, together with senior the evaluation of the Committees own effectiveness.
representatives of the Companys external auditors, to attend each meeting and receive its papers, although it External audit and external auditors reserves part of each meeting for discussions without those invitees present.
Other senior executives are also invited to The Committee is also responsible for the development, certain meetings to present such reports as are required implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee onexternal audit and the Committee reserves oversight members periodically meet the Head of Internal Audit responsibility for monitoring independence, objectivity and the external auditors without the presence of andcompliance with ethical and regulatory requirements.
The Committee recommends the appointment and reappointment of the Companys external auditors and The chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent annually reviews a formal letter provided by the external meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the auditors conrming their independence and objectivity Committee, and the Board also receives copies of the withinthe context of applicable regulatory requirements minutes of each meeting.
The chairman of the Committee andprofessional standards.
attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the  LLP have been the Companys Committees activities.
The Committee is satisfied with their effectiveness and independence and has not Audit Committee effectiveness considered it necessary this year to conduct a tender process for the appointment of its auditors.
In 2009, Each year the Committee critically reviews its own theCommittee carried out a review of its auditors, which performance and considers where improvements can be included cost comparisons.
This provided the Committee made.
This year, the performance of the Committee was with the assurance that the auditors continued to be evaluated as part of a committee effectiveness review, cost-effective.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year.
The Committee monitors the rotation of key partners within the external auditors from time to time in accordance with UK regulations.
The Committee also scrutinises all Financial reporting proposals for non-audit work to be performed by the The Committee assists the Board to full its responsibilities external auditors for the Company, to ensure that the relating to external financial reporting and associated provision of those non-audit services falls within the agreed announcements.
During the year, the matters considered, policy regarding such services and does not impair the either by the Committee or subsequently by the Board, objectivity or independence of the external auditors.
included: Underthe policy, the external auditors cannot be engagedto perform any of the following services: the Half Year and Full Year financial statements, including the requirements for financial reporting: book-keeping services related to accounting records ornancial statements: the Half Year and Annual Final results announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: design and implementation of financial information systems: 48 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and established which restricts the recruitment of staff from contributions in kind reports: both KPMG LLP and  LLP.
The Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee meetings actuarial services: in addition to having regular meetings with the chairman of internal audit outsourcing services: the Committee.
The Committee reviews key performance indicators relating to the activity of the department.
management functions including human resources: Thesereviews occur either at each Committee meeting, broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment orannually when KPIs are reviewed against the audit plan.
banking services: or The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups legal and other services unrelated to audit work.
internal audit function, including its terms of reference, its audit plans, its general performance and its relationship The policy requires pre-approval by the chairman of the with the external auditors.
Throughout the year, the Committee for anynon-audit work, subject to maximum Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and budget levels.
Theexternal auditors provide audit related its achievements against those plans.
The Committee services such asregulatory and statutory reporting, and considered the results of the audits undertaken by the reviewing shareholder or other circulars.
The external internal audit function and considered the adequacy of auditors report to the Committee any material departures managements response to matters raised, including the from Group accounting policies and procedures that they time taken to resolve any such matters.
The Committee identify during the course of their audit work.
Within the carried out its annual review to consider the effectiveness constraints of the APB Ethical Standards on Auditing, the ofthe internal audit function using guidance issued by the external auditors undertake certain due diligence reviews Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and and provide assistance on tax matters.
The provision of the Institute of Internal Auditors UK.
non-audit services within such constraints of the agreed policy is assessed on a case by case basis so that the Internal control best-placed adviser is retained.
The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control, During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness forestablishing the systems of internal control and reviewing of the external auditors, which included receiving responses their effectiveness and for the identication and from each of the Groups operating companies and management of business risk.
considered whether the agreed audit plan had been fullledand the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of TheCommittee also considered the external auditors the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies rigour and the degree to which the external auditors were and practices, standards of risk management and risk able toassess key accounting and audit judgements.
management procedures and compliance controls, as TheCommittee reviewed and approved the terms, areas wellas the Companys statements on internal controls, ofresponsibility and scope of the audit including schedules before they are agreed by the Board for each years of unadjusted errors and representation letters as set AnnualReport.
outinthe external auditors engagement letter: the overall In a decentralised Group, where local management has workplan for the forthcoming year, together with the considerable autonomy to run and develop their cost-effectiveness of the audit as well as the auditors businesses, a well-designed system of internal control is remuneration and performance: any issues which arose necessary to safeguard shareholders investment and the during the course of the audit and their resolution: key Companys assets and depends on regular evaluation on accounting and audit judgements: errors identied during the extent of the risks to which the Company is exposed.
the audit: and the recommendations made to management Inaccordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull by the auditors and managements response.
Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on The total fees paid to  in the year theCombined Code, anongoing process has been ended 31 July 2010 were 10.4 million 2009: 13.4 million, established for identifying, managing and evaluating the ofwhich 6.7 million 2009: 8.5 million related to non-audit risks faced by the Group, including reputational risk, and work.
1 million of the non-audit work fees were pursuant the effective internal controls required to maintain such towork required in relation to the Groups proposed change effectiveness.
in corporate structure and domicile.
Further disclosure of The Groups internal control systems are designed to the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 31 July 2010 manage rather than eliminate business risk.
They facilitate canbe found in note 3 to the financial statements.
the effectiveness and efficiency of our operations: safeguard the Groups assets against material misstatement Internal audit or loss: contribute to the safeguarding of assets, including The internal audit function is fully independent of the the prevention and detection of fraud: fairly report the day-to-day operations of the Group.
It is involved in the Groups performance and position: maintain the reliability of assessment of the quality of risk management and internal both internal and external reporting and ensure compliance control and helps to promote and further develop effective with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice, risk management within the businesses.
Certain internal including that related to social, environmental and ethical audit assignments such as those requiring specialist matters.
These systems and their effectiveness have been expertise continue to be outsourced by the Head of Internal in place for the full financial year and up to the date on Audit to KPMG LLP as required.
A policy has been Wolseley plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued which the financial statements were approved, and are programme was further improved throughout the Group, reviewed by the Board regularly to deal with any changing following the introduction during 2009 of an upgraded risk circumstances.
Effective financial controls, including the maintenance of This provides a more consistent analysis of risks, a more proper accounting records, are an important element of effective means of ensuring accountability, and a more internal control.
They help ensure that the Company is not rigorous means of measuring responses, identifying key unnecessarily exposed to avoidable financial risks and that risks and reviewing riskmitigation plans.
published financial information is reliable.
Summaries of the Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business are given Groups annual planning cycle.
The management team of in the Financial review on pages 26 to 29 and in note 29 each Group company is responsible for risk management ofthe consolidated financial statements.
and internal control within its own business and for ensuring The Companys whistleblowing policy, which supports compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Each theGroup-wide Code of Conduct, gives details of the Group company or business unit has also appointed a risk international condential telephone reporting lines and director whose primary role in such capacity is to ensure secure website reporting facility, which are operated on compliance by local management with the Groups risk behalf of the Group by an independent third party.
The management programme and to document the strategic reporting channels are a condential means for employees objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems to notify any concerns about actual or potential breaches ofboth internal control and risk management activities.
oflaw or company policy, including in relation to accounting, Group operating companies and Head Ofce functions are risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related required to submit risk management reports bi-annually to matters.
All matters reported are investigated and, where the Chief Financial officer which identify and document appropriate, reported to the Committee.
Statistics on the each significant risk, together with the mitigating actions volume and general nature of all disclosures made are taken, and to be taken, to manage, monitor or reduce those reported to the Committee quarterly.
Acopy of the Groups risks.
The Executive Committee and senior management Code of Conduct is available on the Companys website at review these submissions and the Chief Financial officer www.
Information on the improvements presents them to the Committee.
The chairman of the that the Company has made to its ethics programme Committee reports to the Board on any matters which have including its Code of Conduct and policies on prevention arisen from the Committees review of the way in which the offraud and corruption is included in the Corporate risk management and internal control processes have been Responsibility report on page 39. applied and on any breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these processes.
These processes have been in place throughout Control processes the year ended 31 July 2010 and have continued to the date of this report.
The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives annually and approves Group company budgets and The internal auditors have reviewed the overall approach strategies in light of these.
Control is exercised at Group adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities and business unit level through monthly monitoring of and the improvements made have also been takeninto performance by comparison to budgets, forecasts and account so as to reinforce the Companys internal control cash targets and by regular visits to Group companies by procedures.
More information on the Groups approach is the Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer and set out in Risk Management onpages 30 to 33.
Managing Directors of our main geographical units.
TheBoard has formal procedures in place for the approval Compliance statement of investment, acquisition and disposal projects, with designated levels of authority, supported by post-investment The Company applied all of the principles set out in review processes for major acquisitions or disposals and section1 of the Code for the period under review and has, capital expenditure.
The Board takes account of social, throughout the year, complied with the detailed provisions environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups set out therein.
The Companys auditors, businesses when reviewing the risks faced by the Group.
 LLP, are required to review The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may whether the above statement reects the Companys have on the shortand long-term value of the Company.
compliance with the nine provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such Risk management compliance.
No such report has been made.
The detailed review of risk management is carried out by the Committee, with responsibility for the risk management process, as well as the internal control programme, delegated to the Chief Financial officer.
The risk management programme is owned by the Group Executive, facilitated by the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, while a dedicated Group Head of Risk has Michael Wareing CMG responsibility for the day-to-day management of the on behalf of the Audit Committee programme.
During the financial year, the risk management 50 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
