How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Committee meetings and Latin America.
The Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim management statement at the The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of the end of the first and third quarters which includes a trading committees of the Board during 2010 was as follows: update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Audit Compensation The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue Committee Committee Committee with share owners and their representative bodies through 1 PhilipLader 3 9 11 executive and non-executive directors in relation to 2 BudMorten 3 9 12 remuneration and corporate governance matters as and JeffreyRosen n a 9 12 when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to PaulSpencer n a 9 n a the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
com, provides current and OritGadiesh 2 n a n a historical financial information, including trading statements, 3 ColinDay n a 7 1 news releases and presentations and the Companys LubnaOlayan 3 n a n a statement of its corporate governance practices.
WPP operates a system of internal control, which is 4  maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK partwaythrough2010.
Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the During 2010, the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Securities Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, chaired by Paul Richardson, met once on a formal basis and the Company has complied throughout the year and up to had many informal discussions.
Their report for 2010 starts the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts on page 125. with the Turnbull Report and has also complied with the The Disclosure Committee, which met four times during relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
2010, is comprised of senior executives from Group financial The Board which receives advice from the Audit reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human resource Committee has overall responsibility for the system of and investor relations departments.
The purpose of the internal control and risk management in the Group and has Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year and Board and its committees in relation to the content of major up to the date of this report.
In the context of the scope and financial public statements and advises the Audit Committee complexity of this system, the Board can only give reasonable, and the Board on their disclosure obligations generally and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so as to enable the The system of controls is designed to manage, but may not Board to comply with all relevant provisions.
eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places Share owner relations reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners The relationship with share owners, potential share owners boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
and investment analysts is given the highest priority by The principal elements of internal control are the Company.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment Control environment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, performance and The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of of the Companys current and potential share owners, this the Groups system of internal control.
program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and was deputy Group finance director and the head of investor updated in 2010, sets out the principal obligations of all relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major employees.
Directors and senior executives throughout the financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific Group are required each year to sign this Code.
The WPP 118 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Policy Book which also is regularly updated includes the and up to the date of this report.
These are described in Code of Business Conduct and human resource practices, alphabetical order on pages 120 to 122 As set out above, as well as guidance on practices in many operational areas.
the Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks Breaches or alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate investigated by the director of internal audit and the Group level within the Group.
The Group has an independently operated helpline, Right Control activities and monitoring to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel unable to raise locally.
A number of issues have been raised Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set during 2010 through 42 calls to this helpline, all of which have out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal been followed through and investigated where appropriate and control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application reported to the Audit Committee.
of these policies and procedures is monitored within the individual businesses and by the Companys director of Risk assessment internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
Operating companies are required to maintain and Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout update documentation of their internal controls and the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis executive, the Group finance director, the chairman of of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, the Audit Committee and the Board, as it is essential to together with controls over security of data and the provision the creation and protection of share owner value and the of timely and reliable information to management.
IT and development of the careers of our people.
The Board realises financial controls are also included.
that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity The internal audit department was responsible for reviews depends on being able to continue to provide a quality service and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls to its existing and potential clients in a creative, efficient and for a majority of the Group during 2010, the results of which economic way.
were reported to the Audit Committee.
At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive presents a Brand Check review of each of the business Financial reporting operations, including an assessment of the risk in each business, providing feedback on the business risks and details Each operating company annually updates a three-year of any change in the risk profile since the last Board meeting.
strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
The Brand Check covers such issues as: These are reviewed by the parent companys management the possibility of the win or loss of major business e. g. as and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant a result of a change of senior management at a major client : operating company.
the addition or loss of a key executive of the Group: The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the introduction of new legislation in an important market: development of operating company budgets which build corporate responsibility: up the Groups budget.
During the final quarter of each political instability in an important market: and financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
for the following year for review by the parent company.
Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being procedures and day-to-day management activities to review adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported their operations and business risks.
These are formally monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally communicated to the Group chief executive, other executive by the business groups and by Group management on a directors and senior executives in monthly reports and consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year The Board is firmly of the opinion that the monitoring of forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
risk is strongly embedded in the culture of the Company and The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
of the operating companies, in a manner which the Board At each year-end, all operating companies supply their considers goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and full-year financial results with such additional information as the requirements of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to allow the Exchange Act 1934.
Group to present the necessary disclosures for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Principal risks and uncertainties Accounting Standards IAS.
The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that The Board has considered the principal risks and publicly-released information is free from material omission uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2010 or misstatement.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 119 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Principal risks and uncertainties Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients      ,  .
120 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Issue Potential impact How it is managed Financial  .
Mergers & Acquisitions   Business, legal,      clientsneeds.
