How we behave Directors report Onceagain,   Boardcommittees:PhilipLader, aschairmanof : PaulSpencer, aschairmanoftheAudit Committee:andJeffreyRosen, aschairmanof .
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination Committee Dear share owner ur chief executive has described the business environment of recent years as untidy, if not brutal.
And the world continues to witness O an extraordinary array of natural, geopolitical and economic challenges.
In such a tumultuous context, your Board is particularly pleased to report the encouraging results of the Groups 25th anniversary year and our prospects for 2011.
Managements indefatigable entrepreneurship notwithstanding the Groups substantial size, global scope and industry position is, we believe, central to these results.
Our articulated long-term strategy geographic and product diversification and investment in digital and consumer insight businesses is unwavering.
The past years results underscore the soundness of these objectives.
Yet they also evidence the fact that the Group, while continuing to strengthen its advertising and media management competencies, has essentially become a comprehensive communications services company, one with an increasing focus on the power of proprietary data and analytics.
Day-to-day operations were, of course, no less important to these results.
We are heartened by WPP companies new-business wins and leading position in serving the worlds major clients.
We congratulate managers at every level for their adroit calibration of personnel and expenses in an especially demanding environment.
We recognise the critical role of parent company colleagues whose WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 111 How we behave Directorsreport operating company leaders, professional advisors and share owners, among others, met innumerable times during the year.
Few weeks go by without some gathering or teleconference of your directors: never a day passes without directors exchanging emails with each other, me and or the Groups CEO, always with his legendary instant response.
In response to 2010s specific challenges, your Board undertook a series of initiatives exceeding our customary governance disciplines.
For example, we: increased the frequency of consultation with the Group chief executive and finance director regarding responses to uncertain and fragile economic and financial market conditions, with income statement and balance sheet issues addressed frequently: reviewed closely the integration and performance of TNS and other recent and prior acquisitions, all examined in the context of our diverse portfolio of complementary companies contributions to attainment of the Groups strategic objectives: sought to further our understanding of rapidly-growing geographic markets, especially with regular briefings on WPPs activities in Asia, the aforementioned Board meetings Report by Philip Lader above focus on China, and the addition of two new directors, one Chairman of the Company a prominent Chinese media business leader, and the other and chairman of the Nomination Committee a former chief executive who has led telecommunications companies on several continents: strengthened the Boards and senior managements grasp of new media, their commercial and social dimensions, talent and treasury management, acquisitions and crossand the ways in which they are transforming consumer operating company leadership have contributed substantially behaviour, as well as the global communications and to this anniversary years considerable achievements.
marketing services industry: As we trust our fellow share owners would agree, dedicated many hours to the formulation and the manner, intensity and breadth of WPPs corporate management of performance-driven remuneration programs governance met standards consistent with the operating ranging from the Group chief executives to those of more teams superb performance.
We have sought to exercise: than 50 key personnel an undertaking which is essential rigorous, common-sense Board oversight, modelled to the Groups recruitment, motivation and retention of the on the evolution of best practices, particularly the increasing talent that in turn is critical to WPPs success programs focus on all aspects of risk management: that align employees interests with those of share owners unceasing re-evaluation of managements tactical and optimises the budgetary flexibility of our variable implementation of the Groups strategic objectives and the personnel costs: operating companies financial and creative performance: reviewed and approved financial statements, critical diligent assessment and review of finance, industry accounting policies upon which they are based, and and operations indicators: and supporting systems of reporting and internal controls: vigilant stewardship of WPPs considerable assets, analysing not only the systems accuracy, but their tangible and intangible.
responsiveness to liquidity and financing requirements in The Groups 2011 is promising and we trust will likely stressful circumstances: be considerably more stable than the last several years.
But at Board meetings throughout the year, routinely engaged there will be no relaxation of these standards.
in intense give-and-take and informal discussions with WPP As one measure of your Boards commitment, we met, as business leaders, such as the CEOs of the Groups major a full Board or in committees, 30 times in 2010.
Our regular brands and scores of key personnel, as well as clients, full Board meetings were in Dublin and New York: but to government officials, executives of relevant companies enhance our understanding of the increasing importance of and securities analysts: and WPPs Asian activities, we met with the Groups regional examined operating companies illustrative creative leaders, major clients and public officials in Shanghai, too.
products, client services and key personnel transitions.
Additionally and informally, directors, senior management, The Group chief executive continued the Brand Check 112 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave Directorsreport practice, at every Board meeting, not only highlighting Lists of the worlds leading business women routinely include significant issues relating to talent, clients and competitors, the three women who serve on your Board Esther Dyson but also inviting non-executive directors detailed, farthe prominent internet pioneer, investor and commentator, ranging consideration of individual operating companies Orit Gadiesh chairman of global management consultants, performance, geopolitical and industry-specific phenomena, Bain & Company, and Lubna Olayan chief executive of the and potentially disruptive or beneficial events and trends.
Marie Capes Business risks are gauged at every meeting reflecting the fact serves as Company Secretary.
Currently, 54% of the Groups that risk management continues to be at the forefront of your employees are female: as are 48% of WPPs senior Boards attention.
Your Board, the Groups chief executive and Effective risk management, as well as strategy this chairman are committed to continuing to seek the development and operations ovesight are best achieved benefits of a wide diversity of backgrounds and perspectives through the focused concern of broad-gauged directors.
The men and women who serve on your Board are broadly As examples of the continuing broadening of current recognised as remarkably independent-minded: they reside directors experience, congratulations are in order for John and have worked across the globe: their current and past Quelch and Colin Day.
Professor Quelchs global leadership professional roles have been international in scope: their in the academic field of marketing has long been recognised present responsibilities range from Wall Street and the as London Business School Dean and Harvard Business City of London, to international management consulting, School senior associate Dean and professor, as well as a asset management, telecommunications and media, angel past director of such companies as Pepsi Bottling, Reebok, investing, academia, advertising, internet start-ups, easyJet and Blue Circle Industries.
He was recently named consumer-products, energy, manufacturing, government Dean of the prestigious China Europe International Business and global non-profit organisations.
School and was presented with an Honorary Doctorate from And we continue to refresh the composition, and benefit The University of Hanoi.
from the ever-broadening perspectives, of our Board.
The Colin Days work as Reckitt Benckisers finance director appointment as a non-executive of Ruigang Li, a graduate since 2000 has been widely applauded: his prior experience of Fudan University and former resident scholar at Columbia as Aegis plcs finance director has been directly relevant to University, emphasizes our Groups recognition of the WPPs media investment management business: and his prior importance of Asia and China particularly, to our business, board experience has included Cadbury and Imperial this industry and international commerce.
In his new role as chief executive of Filtrona plc, the Shanghai Media Group since 2002, he leads Chinas most international supplier of specialty plastic and fibre products, comprehensive portfolio of television, radio, digital, homeColin will continue to expand the range of his valuable shopping, content distribution, and performing arts insights for our Board.
businesses and is the largest content and service provider of Among the various other honours received by directors Chinese language programs in the Chinese mainland.
He is of the Company this year, none was more well-deserved also chairman of China Media Capital, his countrys first than the award of the rank of Commander of the Order and only sovereign private equity fund dedicated to media of the British Empire CBE to Paul Spencer in recognition within China and abroad.
of his contributions to the financial services industry.
Our other newly-appointed director, Sol Trujillo, Pauls extensive experience in financial management and brings to our Board 30 years of senior management supervision including his current service as chairman of experience in international media and communications.
State Street Managed Pension Funds and as the Independent Former chief executive of US West now Quest, Orange Trustee of the BAT, BT, BA and Rolls-Royce Pension Funds now France Telecom and Telstra the Australian is reflected in the exacting standards he maintains as telecommunications company, he is acknowledged to chairman of your Boards Audit Committee.
be a broadband and wireless pioneer.
An exceptionally Just as we observe the transitions in our Board colleagues experienced corporate director having served on the professional lives, WPPs directors devote considerable boards of PepsiCo, EDS, Bank of America, and Gannett, attention to succession planning for the Groups CEO and among others he remains active in business affairs in other key executives.
For the past eight years, and again in China and South Asia, Europe, North America, Africa 2010, your entire Board devoted major parts of two meetings and the Middle East and is chairman of Chinas Silk Road to management development for some 200 senior managers Technologies and a director of Target, Promerica Bank, and rising stars.
Some of the Groups operating companies, and Italys Weather Investments.
if independent, would rank among our industrys largest, The governance community has increasingly addressed and we are therefore fortunate to have an impressive roster the value of womens contributions to corporate boards, and of seasoned executives who are capable of undertaking your Board has, indeed benefitted from such perspectives.
parent company or other key roles.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 113 How we behave Directorsreport Your Board and the Groups chief executive have Audit Committees chairman, I also attended all of its meetings exchanged candid, specific, current opinions about the in 2010 and, with his consent, will continue this practice to candidates, internal and external, best qualified to succeed stay fully abreast of the Committees and our auditors findings.
him: and on several structured and informal occasions, To ensure that a majority of our share owners concur the non-executive directors, have separately addressed the with these positions as to independence as well as to review appropriate selection process and succession candidates.
each directors performance more frequently, your Board has Although we have every expectation of Sir Martins recommended that WPP directors terms be limited to one continued, vigorous and effective leadership of the Group, year.
Such practice, consistent with the UK Corporate the Boards responsibility for succession planning is taken Governance Code, will provide share owners with the right extremely seriously.
We continue to adhere to the position, to review our individual performance and elect each member however, that lest public discussion of this subject foster of your Board annually.
speculation and distraction the content of these ongoing The aforementioned appointments of new directors deliberations should remain strictly confidential.
evidence your Boards conviction that occasional change In light of the financial communitys experience since and renewal are healthy for any Board.
Furthermore, we 2008, your Board concurs with the general calls for continually seek to introduce new thinking into each intensified corporate governance and believes that our Committees deliberations.
To this end, Sol Trujillo has rigorous practices have evidenced this.
We continue to be joined the Audit Committee: Tim Shriver moved from the attentive, nonetheless, to the many reviews and reports on Audit to the Compensation Committee, to which Colin Day this subject: and on my colleagues behalf, I have personally was also added.
participated in a variety of such studies.
Given WPPs global The Nomination Committee comprised of Esther operations and complexity, your Board welcomes meaningful Dyson, Orit Gadiesh, Lubna Olayan and me has now and beneficial engagement with share owners to convey been charged with overview of Corporate Responsibility, our governance practices.
To that end, we hope that our with employee issues remaining with the Compensation communications throughout the year and this Annual Report Committee.
At each meeting, our Committee invites the provide a comprehensive, clear picture of how the Board and participation, in whole or in part, of the Group chief the Group operate.
executive, the Company Secretary, and the Group chief For governance to be genuinely effective, however, every counsel.
In 2010, we formally met three times and more board must tailor best practices and innovations to the frequently conversed informally to assess the Boards and particular demands of its organisations industry, culture, committees composition and to consider potential new operations, regions, and personalities without diminishing members, identified from a variety of both internal and the rigorous execution of oversight responsibilities.
The changes made in 2010 reflect our exceptions from some advisory groups preferences, one thinking as to how your Companys progress toward example that is occasionally referenced is our position that achieving its long-term strategic objectives and its month-bya directors independence should be determined on a month performance can best be assessed by the collective factual, rather than mere chronological, basis.
Some institutional investors and their representative In addition to evaluating the relevance of your Boards bodies contend that directors who have served for more than composition to the Groups strategic objectives, the nine years should no longer be considered independent: nor, Nomination Committees 2010 work complied with by definition, should the Group chairman.
We respectfully governance duties ranging from the implementation of rules assert that a worldwide enterprise of WPPs scale and range addressing the disclosure and approval of directors conflictsof commercial activities benefits enormously from long-term of-interest and the review of committees terms of reference directors who are actively engaged in the Groups governance to the oversight of succession planning and the Board and that independence should be determined not by such self-evaluation.
The Board again completed, in 2010, as arbitrary standards as tenure, but on a case-by-case basis, part of its commitment to rigorous standards of corporate with full disclosure to share owners of any appearance of governance, a thorough self-evaluation.
All directors conflict with published guidelines.
completed a confidential questionnaire in this regard Similarly, your Board does not view my position as and identified opportunities for improvement.
Separate non-executive chairman, my chairmanship of the Nomination conversations were then held between each director and Committee and membership on the Compensation Committee, either the chairman or the senior independent director, or my nine years service as compromising my independence.
Jeffrey Rosen, who also led the non-executive directors It is their considered judgement formally reviewed on an assessment of my performance as chairman.
Based on annual basis that such continuity helps ensure co-ordination this process, we continued our tradition of implementing of related Board matters and practicable, informed changes to enhance the Boards performance of management of our governance work.
By invitation of the its responsibilities.
114 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave Directorsreport I cannot exaggerate how independent-minded your Board is.
Each Board and committee meeting challenges well-tested assumptions, long-standing practices and even iconic executives.
We thereby seek to comply with and throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2010, WPP plc did so or surpassed the requirements of the Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code, NASDAQs rules, US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and, where practicable, guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative bodies.
Even without a large-scale new acquisition, your Boards responsibilities as non-executive directors continued to increase substantially in 2010.
We do not shrink from these: nor do we take them lightly.
Those voluminous packs of WPP reading materials keep streaming to us: our iPhones and BlackBerrys hum with near-daily messages from colleagues.
Directors freely and frequently share reactions to news-of-the-day.
My Board colleagues, as well as our Company Secretary and Group chief counsel, devote enormous amounts of time, frequently with personal sacrifice to tasks beyond any narrow definition of their roles.
And our effectiveness depends, to a significant degree, on the oft-unsung efforts of those at WPP who directly support our work and the highly competent professionals who meet the never-ending flow of legal, regulatory, tax, accounting and administrative demands.
A more benevolent economy for 2011 is forecast and notwithstanding earthquakes, tsunamis, nuclear accidents, insurrections, revolutions, national fiscal imbalances and political discord early signs are encouraging.
Yet for this Group to achieve its mission and Business Plan collectively in more than 100 counties and some 2,400 offices, the disciplined, co-ordinated efforts of our 146,000 people is paramount in importance.
The individuals profiled in this Annual Report are critical to our success: so too are the thousands of individuals across the globe who each day, create value for our clients and thereby our share owners.
As laudable as the Groups 25-year record is, we cannot forget that there is a continuing competition, every day, with other firms and with our own past creativity.
The intelligence, imagination, diligence and plain hard work of all these people are what truly achieved these 2010 results.
And only such professionalism and dedication can generate strong returns for our share owners in this and future years.
For that and for our fellow share owners trust in our stewardship of your Company, we directors are most thankful.
