How we behave Directorsreport Review of the Audit Committee categories of work may be provided by the auditors if it is appropriate for them to do so.
The provision of such services Report by Paul Spencer and associated fees are pre-approved by the committee,  either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value Dear share owner of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2010 is shown in note 3 on page 163. uring 2010, Jeffrey Rosen, Colin Day, Sol Trujillo In line with the committees responsibility to review and and Tim Shriver were my colleagues on the appoint the external auditors and approve their remuneration D committee.
Tim Shriver stepped down from the and terms of engagement, in 2010 the committee monitored committee in July 2010 and Sol Trujillo was appointed to Deloittes independence, objectivity and performance with the committee in October 2010. reference to frequent reports from Deloitte during the year We held nine meetings during the year, which were also covering the overall audit strategy and the progress and attended by invitation for all or part of any meeting by results of the audit.
The committee recommends the the external auditors, the Companys chairman, the Group reappointment of Deloitte.
finance director, Bud Morten, the director of internal audit, Other work carried out by the committee in 2010 included: the Group chief counsel, deputy Group chief counsel and the monitoring the integrity of the Companys Company Secretary.
Preparatory meetings were also held financial statements and reviewing significant financial with the internal and external auditors as well as members reporting judgements: of the Companys senior management including the heads reviewing internal financial control and internal of the Tax, Treasury, Legal and Group Reporting teams.
audit activities: The committee received presentations from the heads of Tax, assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in Transaction Services and Treasury.
The committee also respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key received reports from the Disclosure Committee in relation elements of risk management as they affect the Group: to the Disclosure Committees review and work on financial reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular reports.
The Board received regular reports on all matters focus on debtors, funding and the continued ability of the of particular significance arising at the committee meetings.
Group to adopt the going concern basis in preparing The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed financial statements: with the Board annually and most recently in April 2011, reviewing reports on any material litigation or are available for inspection on the Companys website at regulatory reviews involving Group companies: www.
com and are on display prior to and at all general reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy, meetings of the Company.
any significant acquisitions, due diligence procedures and During the year, the committee and its members were integration processes and the debt financing by the Group: formally assessed by the chairman of the Company for their reviewing new business models proposed by technical suitability to be members of the committee and Group companies: also for the committees overall effectiveness.
The Board reviewing the Groups Code of Business Conduct and has designated me as the committees financial expert for supporting training programs: Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOX purposes and as having recent reviewing the Groups tax strategy: and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the monitoring the accounting and legal reporting Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
requirements, including all relevant regulations of the UK The committee has once again overseen the progress Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the Jersey towards compliance with Section 404 of SOX for 2010, Financial Services Commission with which the Company through regular status reports submitted by the internal must comply: and and external auditors.
reviewing the procedures and supporting training The committee received and reviewed regular reports programs being implemented by the Group in response to on both our Right to Speak helpline, which is made available the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act to our people to enable them to communicate confidentially and increased regulatory focus.
on matters of concern and the actions taken in response to I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee, the those calls.
parent company executives and the external advisors for their The committee has established a policy regarding nonhelp in another challenging year.
audit services that may be provided by the external auditors, which prohibits certain categories of work in line with relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards Paul Spencer issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SOX.
