How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill & Knowlton Report by Jack Martin right Global chairman and chief executive officer I was honored to be asked to join the Hill & Knowlton team in the fall of 2010.
As global chairman and CEO, I look forward to leading the company during one of the most innovative and distinctive eras in communications in many years.
With the worldwide democratization of virtually every segment of society, Hill & Knowlton is dedicated to offering enhanced client capabilities with emphasis on key areas such as research, digital and financial services.
As client advisors, we are committed to achieving excellence, seating Hill & Knowlton as the 21st century source for the best ideas in meeting the challenges of the global economy.
In 2010, H&K clients took center stage with teams from around the world leading communications for clients such as CGE and Procter & Gamble in their humanitarian initiatives during the Chile earthquake, and for clients and sponsors at the Vancouver Winter Olympics, the Shanghai Expo and World Cup football in South Africa.
H&K is playing a central role in a fully-integrated Olympic marketing campaign for London 2012, helping create awareness of the P&G masterbrand in the host market and driving scale and impact across EMEA.
clients and offering support and outreach to the marketing New clients to the fold included Avery Dennison, J&J community.
The firm assisted the Canadian Association Ethicon and Dos Equis, and FOX MGM Home Entertainment of Petroleum Producers CAPP on industry-wide programs joined the new US entertainment practice.
Petrobras appointed around Responsible Canadian Energy, driving an H&K as global media relations agency and Italys ENEL win international conversation around Canadas oil sands by exemplified the firms global expertise in energy.
By year-end, bringing together serious-minded business, environmental, H&K represented the largest Norwegian corporations, sustainability, academic, aboriginal and community leaders.
a significant nod to H&Ks reputation.
Closer to home, H&K was deeply immersed in the Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival as official PR partner, competing for top honors and participating in the In 2010, PR-centric campaigns judging panel.
Leaner staffing levels from the previous year were fleshed dominated the landscape with out with significant senior staff hires, underpinning major theriseof citizen media and practices and geographies.
Dan McIntyre came on board as socialnetworks global head of healthcare: Ernst Primosch chairman and CEO of Germany: Baey Yam Keng took the reins of Singapore: Alexander Dll for East Africa: Patrick Slevin the Leading up to the 2010 Olympic Winter Games, H&K new head of Tallahassee: Mauricio Borja as GM of the new Canada supported Coca-Cola Canada and the 106-day Colombian operation: Jeroen van Seeters was promoted to Olympic Torch Relay promoting torchbearers and legacy CEO H&K Benelux: and Shoichi Yoshikawa hired as head announcements.
Wins for EMEA included P&G Wella, of Tokyo.
Additionally, the newly-acquired Global Hill & Rolls-Royce, Telenor Norge, LG, Abu Dhabi Ports, UCB Knowlton in Istanbul joined the roster.
And proudly, H&Ks Pharma, Lundbeck, DHL Belux and RIM.
Asia Pacific vice chairman Secretary Norman Y. Mineta, in a testament closed on International Olive Oil, Align Technology, the to his more than 40 years of service to the US, was honored Government of Singapore Investment Corporation and by the US House of Representatives for his lifetime of the US brought in the Department of Health and Human public service.
Services, SanDisk consumer, Pfizer and Novartis.
At year-end, Public Strategies, Inc. merged with H&K, In 2010, PR-centric campaigns dominated the landscape becoming a subsidiary of Hill & Knowlton USA.
Dan with the rise of citizen media and social networks, and to Bartlett, newly-named president and CEO of H&K USA that end, H&K focused on creating conversations for its and a veteran of the US White House, is driving growth for 62 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs the new entity, winning transformative assignments.
business in Cohn & Wolfes 40-year history, adding dozens Wexler & Walker Public Policy Associates had a second of major brands to our roster, including APP, Bayer straight record-breaking year, especially strong in energy Oncology, Boehringer Ingelheim, General Motors, Genzyme, and environment along with space and defense.
Education HSBC, Lloyds of London and Sanofi-aventis.
We also saw issues saw significant growth in the second half and significant organic growth from existing clients such as telecommunications, transportation and trade stayed strong Walmart, JM Smucker Co, MasterCard, Endo for the firm.
Communications technology specialist, Blanc & Pharmaceuticals, Panasonic, Ashland Valvoline, Bank Otus, saw the beginning of the return to growth in the of America and Navigon.
With key client wins in clean To broaden our senior talent base, we restructured our technology and enterprise software, the company added global leadership team, adding nine new leaders in 2010. significantly to its client roster and saw the expansion of We brought in new talent to lead four key markets London, programs within its current client set.
New York, Stockholm and Los Angeles as well as new Finally, Hill & Knowlton was recognized globally as leadership for our Global Digital and Healthcare practices.
evidenced by the 2010 Asia-Pacific Consultancy of the Year This infusion of talent has helped drive our new business award given by TheHolmesReport and Canada was named success, expand our client offering and reinvigorate one of the Best Workplaces in Canada, a Top 100 Employer our employees.
in Canada for the eighth time.
The Toronto office was also named one of Greater Torontos Top Employers for the fourth consecutive year.
We achieved the best year of new business in Cohn & Wolfes 40-year history, adding dozens of major Cohn & Wolfe brands to our roster Report by Donna Imperato below Chief executive officer Digital expertise continues to be critical to our success, with our digital practice delivering pioneering work for renowned global brands.
Last year, we were selected as agency of record for ExxonMobil in digital and social media programming.
And we continue to drive social media strategy for major brands such as GlaxoSmithKline, MasterCard, Merck, Nike and Universal Studios.
Our digital team is expanding across the US, Europe and Asia, and we are investing in a multi-faceted global digital training program for all employees throughout our network.
Year after year, our work and our people are consistently recognized as the best of the best.
In 2010, global digital practice leader Chad Latz was named to PRWeeks annual 40 Under 40 list.
In the US, PRWeek bestowed us with top honors for Technology Campaign of the Year SanDisk and Community Relations Campaign of the Year RadioShack.
Our work for Hilton Hotels and Hills Pet Nutrition earned Gold SABRE awards, while RadioShack earned a PRSA Silver Anvil.
And across the globe, our London office won three EMEA SABRE awards for Mundipharma, Medtronic and Barclays: Milan earned Campaign of the Year and Best Product Communication by the Assorel Awards for 2010 was a transformative year for Cohn & Wolfe, marked work with Navigon: Stockholm won a Spinn Award for Best by game-changing wins, a new global leadership team and Consumer Campaign for Unibet: and Madrid was recognized a re-energized brand.
We continued our focus on defining as Best PR Company by magazine Estrategias.
and strengthening the agency, and in turn laid a strong foundation for long-term growth.
Despite a challenging start to the year, with budget reductions from several major clients, we ended 2010 with significant momentum.
We achieved the best year of new WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2010 63 How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs The launch of our new guiding mantra, DigDeeper.
dares us to challenge the rules of convention Full report on page 41 and deliver purpose-driven ideas.
Last November, our first DigDeeper.
Day brought together more than For Burson-Marsteller, 2010 was a year of growth and 1,000 Cohn & Wolfe people across 15 countries, sharing achievement.
Coming off only modest setbacks of the 2009 their collective creative firepower to benefit pro bono client financial crisis, the gains of 2010 catapulted the company Project Kaisei, an organization dedicated to removing plastic past the previous record year of 2008.
Over the last four debris from the worlds oceans.
years, through organic growth and improved resource To reinforce our culture of innovation and our management, Burson-Marsteller has more than doubled commitment to delivering brand-building ideas, we unveiled its bottom line.
Featuring Hollywoodstyle animation and bold, irreverent copy, the site has received glowing reviews from clients current and Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide prospective, employees and influentials.
The Interactive Full report on page 34 Media Awards named it Best in Class in both its marketing and public relations categories.
In 2010, Ogilvy PR focused on building further its expertise Cohn & Wolfe performed well across the board in 2010, in social media, in growing its talent base and helping its with our specialty companies, GCI Health and AxiCom, clients through challenging times.
experiencing new and organic growth.
GCI Health doubled its work for Biogen Idec and grew organically with clients such as Boehringer Ingelheim, Endo Pharmaceuticals and Merck.
It also added new clients including Allergan, Bosch Healthcare, North Shore University Hospital and the American Society of Dermatology.
Meanwhile, AxiCom significantly grew business with Dell, while adding a number of blue-chip technology companies such as ADT, Lexis Nexis, Lucid, Molecular Power, Milan Direct, Pano Logic and TP-Link.
As we enter 2011, we do so with a palpable energy and a sense of optimism for our future.
Cohn & Wolfe remains committed to helping build the worlds best brands, and leveraging our momentum as a powerful force in the industry.
