How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Committee meetings and Latin America.
The Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim management statement at the The attendance of non-executive directors at meetings of the end of the first and third quarters which includes a trading committees of the Board during 2010 was as follows: update, an interim report at half year and a trading update and presentation at the Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Audit Compensation The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue Committee Committee Committee with share owners and their representative bodies through 1 PhilipLader 3 9 11 executive and non-executive directors in relation to 2 BudMorten 3 9 12 remuneration and corporate governance matters as and JeffreyRosen n a 9 12 when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to PaulSpencer n a 9 n a the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
com, provides current and OritGadiesh 2 n a n a historical financial information, including trading statements, 3 ColinDay n a 7 1 news releases and presentations and the Companys LubnaOlayan 3 n a n a statement of its corporate governance practices.
WPP operates a system of internal control, which is 4  maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK partwaythrough2010.
Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the During 2010, the Corporate Responsibility Committee, Securities Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, chaired by Paul Richardson, met once on a formal basis and the Company has complied throughout the year and up to had many informal discussions.
Their report for 2010 starts the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts on page 125. with the Turnbull Report and has also complied with the The Disclosure Committee, which met four times during relevant provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
2010, is comprised of senior executives from Group financial The Board which receives advice from the Audit reporting, internal audit, treasury, legal, tax, human resource Committee has overall responsibility for the system of and investor relations departments.
The purpose of the internal control and risk management in the Group and has Disclosure Committee is to add further assurance to the reviewed the effectiveness of the system during the year and Board and its committees in relation to the content of major up to the date of this report.
In the context of the scope and financial public statements and advises the Audit Committee complexity of this system, the Board can only give reasonable, and the Board on their disclosure obligations generally and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules so as to enable the The system of controls is designed to manage, but may not Board to comply with all relevant provisions.
eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places Share owner relations reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners The relationship with share owners, potential share owners boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
and investment analysts is given the highest priority by The principal elements of internal control are the Company.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous program to address the needs of share owners, investment Control environment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information about the Company, its strategy, performance and The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, competitive position.
Given the wide geographic distribution ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of of the Companys current and potential share owners, this the Groups system of internal control.
program includes regular visits to investors, particularly by The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly the Group chief executive, the Group finance director, the reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and was deputy Group finance director and the head of investor updated in 2010, sets out the principal obligations of all relations, in the UK, Continental Europe and the major employees.
Directors and senior executives throughout the financial centres in North America and also in Asia Pacific Group are required each year to sign this Code.
