58 Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board is committed to maintaining high Within this framework, operational s people management including employee standards of corporate governance.
The management is delegated to the chief engagement, recruitment, retention, directors seek to ensure that the Groups executive with the Board maintaining succession planning and the Groups governance framework complies with appropriate oversight of operational pension plan arrangements accepted good practice and in particular activities via regular review and reporting.
s the corporate governance framework with the principles of the Combined Code and internal controls on Corporate Governance the Code, The Board retains control of a number s risk monitoring and management adopted by the Financial Reporting Council of dened matters which include the s major projects and tenders FRC in June 2008.
It provides an consideration and approval of strategy, s shareholder matters and feedback.
explanation of how the Code has been the approval of financial statements and applied and the extent of the Companys shareholder circulars, Group policies, major Directors also meet as members of compliance.
A copy of the Code can be capital investments, risk management strategy committees.
The attendance of each director found on the FRCs website www.
and significant acquisitions and disposals.
The at Board meetings, and those committees Board has held regular meetings throughout of which they were a member during the the year with discussions covering: year, is set out in Table 1.
Directors academic background of each director A.
1 The Board s health, safety and environmental in ofce at the year end is contained in The Board is responsible for the overall performance his or her biography pages 52 and 53. direction and management of the Company s the Groups strategic plan and the strategic The chairman and non-executive directors also and for the establishment and maintenance issues facing its businesses meet formally without the executive directors of a framework of delegated authorities s potential acquisitions and disposals present.
Regular dialogue takes place between and controls which ensure the efficient s approval of the Groups budget and directors between scheduled meetings.
and effective management of the ongoing review of financial performance Groups operations.
s the Groups financial results and dividends The Board has approved terms of reference for each committee which are reviewed annually.
Copies of the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Table 1: Board and committee attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Nomination Committees are available on Director Board Committee Committee Committee the Groups website www.
com Chairman or on request from the company secretary.
1 2 Ed Wallis 8 8 4 4 2 4 Following formal consideration the Board 3 Allan Cook 4 4 1 1 may also delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide the final sign-off for an agreed Executive directors course of action within pre-dened Keith Clarke 10 10 5 5 4 parameters.
2 Chairman and chief executive Robert MacLeod 3 3 The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate, with their responsibilities clearly Independent non-executive directors dened.
The chairmans main responsibility is Admiral the Lord Boyce 10 10 5 5 5 5 the leadership and management of the Board Fiona Clutterbuck 10 10 4 4 4 4 5 5 and its governance.
Joanne Curin 10 10 4 4 5 5 6 James Morley 3 3 1 1 2 2 3 3 Raj Rajagopal 10 10 5 5 5 5 7 Sir Peter Williams 10 10 4 4 5 5 4 5 Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Ed Wallis resigned as a director and chairman on 31 January 2010.
Ed Wallis absented himself from two meetings, mindful of the Code requirement that he should not chair any discussion at which arrangements for the recruitment of his successor took place.
Allan Cook was appointed as a non-executive director and chairman-elect on 10 September 2009.
He succeeded Ed Wallis as chairman on 1 February 2010.
Heath Drewett was appointed as a director on 15 June 2009.
Robert MacLeod resigned as a director on 19 June 2009.
James Morley resigned as a director on 30 June 2009.
One meeting was called at short notice and coincided with a prior engagement.
com investors tor WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
