Governance Governance 61 C. 2 Internal control Joint Ventures in which the Company does Each business has a management board, The Board is responsible for reviewing not have overall control are not covered by which varies in size and composition to meet and approving the Groups governance the Groups governance framework.
For the specic needs of the business but always framework and ensuring its adequacy and these Joint Ventures, systems of internal includes at its core the business managing effectiveness, as set out in the Turnbull control are applied as agreed between the director, business finance director, business guidance.
Internal controls, which include Joint Venture parties.
commercial director and HR business financial, operational and compliance partner.
The business management board and risk management systems, are central Business performance controls is responsible for the day-to-day operations to this framework and are considered in The Groups devolved and decentralised of each business.
three categories: structure is considered key to its continued success.
Within this, operational management Project controls s Board is delegated to the managing directors and The primary objective of the Groups project s business performance controls management teams of each business.
systems and controls is to deliver business s project controls.
objectives and customer requirements in Strategic plans and annual budgets an efficient and consistent manner.
These The Groups values and ethics permeate each are developed via a structured process systems and controls are mandated in order category of the governance framework as which ensures that each business responds to minimise the risk of errors on projects, do controls with regard to quality, safety and appropriately to market opportunities within and to maximise the delivery of the required ENVIRONMENT 13% PEOPLE AND AUDIT AND RISK an overall strategy for the Group.
These technical quality to customers and the plans and budgets are reviewed formally by required profitability to the Group.
The governance framework is illustrated in the chief executive, Group finance director Figure 1. and Group HR director before nally being Controls are in place to ensure that the right approved by the Board.
people approve bids, projects and purchases The governance framework reects the and that appropriate and focused reporting devolved and decentralised structure of the The performance of each business against provides managers with the right information Group, which is considered a key part of the targets is reviewed quarterly by the chief to make informed decisions.
The system Groups ability to deliver multi-local services to executive, Group finance director and Group provides common processes to deliver its clients.
Under this structure authority and HR director.
These reviews are wide-ranging, maximum efficiency.
control are delegated from the chief executive covering matters including quality, safety and to the managing directors of the principal environment, financial performance and Whilst significant responsibility for commercial businesses each of whom are members of forecasts, employee matters and commercial, issues is delegated to the businesses, there the Group Executive and then downward to strategy and operational matters.
are consistent controls in place to ensure the business and project managers as appropriate.
Group is able to assess and manage overall Within this framework: In addition, the managing director and business risk.
This is set out in the commercial management team of each business review risk and audit framework.
s authority is delegated within clearly management accounts for the business on prescribed limits a monthly basis.
The Group finance director Within each business a framework s decisions are escalated where either project and Group financial controller also review of internal controls exists that forms size or risk prole require a higher level monthly financial performance.
These a robust business management system.
of authority monthly financial performance updates are These systems include policies, processes, s activity and performance are tracked consolidated and distributed to the Board, procedures, guidance, plans and other through monthly and quarterly reports business managing directors and business tools such as pro formas specic to the s effectiveness is audited via internal audit finance directors.
They are implemented and self-assessment controls.
to manage and control risk and to ensure activities are effectively controlled.
The governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
See pages 34 to 35 for our Principal risks and uncertainties WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010 62 Governance Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Report www.
com cr continued See pages 36 to 41 for our Human Resources Review The Group authority matrix summarises Project summary reports are one-page The Group endeavours to operate the authority of employees at each level of summaries of the financial status of projects cohesively.
However, people are employed the organisation to commit the Group to at a point in time.
The project manager, in several countries where employment expenditure and contractual liabilities in the project director and lead engineer are required practices and legislation differ from the course of their duties.
It has been designed to approve the report on a monthly basis.
principal market in the UK.
In these to allow the Group to operate exibly and jurisdictions the Group operates in efficiently.
Controls are in place to ensure Project audits are carried out by the internal compliance with local requirements.
the Group authority matrix and procedures audit function.
The activities of this function around its operation and management are are described in more detail below.
A range of business controls are maintained adhered to.
to ensure that the Group: Quality, safety and environment QSE A service delivery process has been The Board sets Group policies on corporate s identies and meets resource requirements adopted to enable us to realise value from RESPONSIBILITY INCLUDING 13% 4HE CHIEF s selects people with the requisite skills, opportunities for customers, the Group executive is the Board member responsible qualications and credentials and partners whilst always adhering to the for corporate responsibility and for the s manages employee performance Groups business conduct policy.
The process Groups performance, supported by and engagement is applied from the receipt of a lead, through Group-wide frameworks.
A common s develops the careers and capabilities bidding, project delivery and project closure: MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE GOVERNS 13% 4HE of individuals the full life cycle of a project.
It overlays 'ROUP DIRECTOR FOR 13% WHO REPORTS TO s makes skills and careers mobile across requirements on line managers to ensure a the chief executive, is responsible for Group the organisation s assures the health and well-being of all staff consistent, controlled approach to projects.
13% %ACH BUSINESS ALSO HAS DEDICATED 13% REPRESENTATIVES s manages employment obligations, liabilities and risks.
Each bid and each project has a project manager and a project director appointed Corporate  Group More information on the Groups people to it.
These individuals are responsible policies include quality, health and safety, for ensuring the project is carried out in environment, sustainability, community, is provided in the Human Resources Review pages 36 to 41. accordance with the Groups service delivery business conduct, data protection, dignity process.
Controls exist to identify individuals and equality at work, employee disclosure Risk who are suitable for these roles.
whistle-blowing and the appropriate use of information technology.
These are published The Board has established a Risk Committee, chaired by the chief executive, to provide Commercial procedures and guidance notes on the Groups intranet and may be have been developed to help bid and project provided externally on request.
They are assistance with the day-to-day management of risk and to oversee the operation of the managers understand specic commercial reviewed regularly and updated to reect issues in the bidding process.
Whilst the changes to legislation, emerging good Groups risk management framework.
During the year, the members of the Risk Group commercial policies and procedures practice and business needs.
are mandatory, guidance notes are advisory Committee comprised the chief executive, the Group finance director, the company and provide the background to specic A summary of the Groups corporate commercial and legal issues.
The guidance responsibility activities is provided for secretary, the Group legal director, the head of internal audit, the corporate services notes are reviewed annually to ensure they shareholders in the Corporate Responsibility are up to date and relevant.
In addition, the director and the Group risk manager.
The Committees responsibilities during the year Group provides further information on An annual risk review of all parts of the corporate responsibility, which includes have included: Group is undertaken with the assistance detailed information in respect of safety of the Groups insurance brokers.
This review leadership and performance, carbon s reviewing significant risks and ensuring they are being actively managed is based on interviews with key personnel reduction, respect for the environment and and the results are shared with the Groups working with our community on the Groups s instilling risk awareness into Atkins corporate culture and sharing knowledge Risk Committee and the Board.
are produced throughout the Group in and best practice s reviewing and monitoring the changing accordance with the risk management policy, People including project risk logs and business risk The Groups principal objective is to maintain risk prole for the Group s reviewing the continued relevance of the logs, which feed into the Group risk log.
a culture and an environment within which Project risk logs form an important part of talented professionals can be recruited, Groups insurance programme arrangements s reviewing significant claims arising in the the service delivery process whilst the Group retained, developed and deployed to work risk log is reviewed by each of the Risk in support of its clients.
significant effort is period together with lessons learned s reporting to the Board and Audit Committee, Audit Committee and Board.
made to treat staff consistently and fairly yet at the same time as individuals.
Committee regularly on its activities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
