Governance Governance 63 Internal audit Independent audit s a detailed review of the internal audit plan The Group aims to ensure that all its The external audit is an important s regular examination of the reports arising activities are adequately controlled to independent control.
from the work undertaken by the internal mitigate risk and support achievement of audit function objectives, while avoiding the creation of The appointment of the independent auditor s approval and review of an independent excessive bureaucracy.
The internal audit is approved by shareholders annually.
The assessment of the internal audit function function supports this aim by providing the independent auditors audit of the Financial and its remit directors, through the Audit Committee, Statements is conducted in accordance with s regular review of the Groups risk log with an objective evaluation of the Groups international standards on auditing issued by s a review of the continued independence of governance framework.
The internal the Auditing Practices Board.
The independent the independent auditor including a review audit function also aims to raise levels auditor, currently  LLP, of its audit and non-audit work of understanding and awareness of risk provides the following: s a review of the independent auditors audit and control throughout the Group.
strategy and implementation plan and its s a report to the Audit Committee giving an findings in relation to the Annual Report The head of internal audit reports to the overview of the results, significant contracts and half-year report Group finance director and, through the and judgements and observations on the s the recommendation to the Board of the independent auditor for re-appointment Audit Committee, to the Board.
Where control environment relevant, the internal audit function will s an opinion on the truth and fairness of the s a review of the Companys draft Annual Report, half-year results and associated additionally report its findings to members Group and Company accounts of the Group Executive and other s an internal control report, following its announcements focusing on key judgemental areas and accounting policies.
audit, highlighting to management any areas of weakness or concern.
The Committee meets the independent The internal audit function uses an annual self-certication process which requires Adequacy and effectiveness auditor and head of internal audit privately at each scheduled meeting.
The managers throughout the Group to personally of internal controls confirm the testing of the internal controls The Board monitored and reviewed the independent auditor and head of internal audit also have unrestricted access to the and compliance with Group policies within adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups their business or function and the steps taken governance framework, which includes Committee and its chairman.
to address actual or potential issues that are internal controls and risk management, identied.
Central reporting enables good on a continual basis throughout the year  LLP has been the Companys independent auditor since practice to be shared throughout the Group.
ended 31 March 2010 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support it listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
The Audit Committee considers The internal audit function has unlimited was provided by the Groups Risk access to records, staff and data subject to Committee, the internal audit function that the relationship with the independent auditor is working well and remains satisfied any formal client restrictions.
The head of and the Companys independent auditor.
internal audit will report any concerns about with its effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to restrictions placed on the authority or scope C. 3 Audit Committee and auditor of the teams work to the chief executive, Joanne Curin, Fiona Clutterbuck and require the rm to tender for the audit work although it has considered its appointment Group finance director and Audit Committee.
Sir Peter Williams are each members of the Audit Committee.
James Morley was on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice The internal audit function is independent committee chairman until his retirement and free from interference in determining from the Board on 30 June 2009, when of independent auditor.
the scope of internal auditing, performing he was succeeded by Joanne Curin.
Each audit work and communicating results.
member of the Committee is considered The Committee monitors the cost-effectiveness of audit and non-audit work performed by It operates within the terms of its charter to be independent and to have recent and as laid out on the Groups intranet and relevant financial experience.
During the year the independent auditor and also considers the potential impact, if any, of this work on complies with the Standards and Code of the Committees activities have included: Ethics of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing any Should the head of internal audit become s monitoring the financial reporting process aware of any non-compliance, the chief s an assessment of the effectiveness of the material non-audit work in accordance with a Group policy approved annually by the executive, Group finance director and Audit Groups system of internal control, risk Committee would be informed.
management process and employee Committee.
The policy identies certain non-audit work, such as regulatory work, disclosure whistle-blowing and fraud response arrangements the auditing of share schemes, provision WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2010
