| 110 Governance Corporate Governance report Matters reserved for the Board The Combined Code Q The Board is responsible for the governance of the Group on The Board is fully committed to the principle of best practice in behalf of shareholders within a framework of policies and controls corporate governance.
This report describes how Xstrata has applied that provide for effective risk assessment and management the main principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 the Q The Board provides leadership and articulates the Companys Code.
During the year under review, the Company has complied objectives and strategy to achieve those objectives with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code, except with Q The Board sets standards of conduct, as documented in an regard to the Chairman who was not considered independent upon approved Statement of Business Principles, which provide an appointment and due to his membership and chairmanship of the ethical framework for all Xstrata businesses Remuneration Committee.
Willy Strothotte will step down as Chairman and Non-Executive director at the conclusion of the While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance, Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May 2011.
From 1 January risk management and critical business issues, it also has a formal 2011, the new UK Code on Corporate Governance will apply to schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
The Combined Code and the UK Code on Corporate reserved matters, which are documented in a comprehensive regime Governance are available at www.
of authorisation levels and prior approval requirements for key corporate decisions and actions, are updated as required by the In addition to complying with corporate governance requirements Board.
Such matters reserved to the Board include, but are not in the UK, the Company follows the regulations of the SIX Swiss limited to, approval of budgets and business plans, major capital Exchange as well as Swiss securities laws due to its secondary listing expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals, and other key in Switzerland.
Certain powers are delegated by the Board to the Executive Committee which is a committee of the Board of Xstrata Disclosure and transparency rules DTR Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The information required by DTR 7.2.
6 regarding share capital This committee and a description of its powers are described required under paragraph 13 of Schedule 7 to the Large and on page 118.
Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is included in the Directors report on Powers of the directors pages 105 to 109.
Subject to Xstratas Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation, and to any directions given by special resolution, the Board governance business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may The directors exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Articles of Association The Board, chaired by Willy Strothotte, has 11 directors, comprising contain specific provisions concerning Xstratas power to borrow three executive directors and eight non-executive directors.
The three money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of its executive directors are Mick Davis, Chief Executive, Trevor Reid, own shares.
The directors have no existing authority to purchase Chief Financial Officer, and Santiago Zaldumbide, Chief Executive Xstratas own shares.
The directors have been authorised to allot and Xstrata Zinc.
David Rough, an independent, non-executive director, issue ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
At the resolutions of the Company passed at its AGM held on 5 May 2010.
Annual General Meeting AGM on 5 May 2010, Dr. Con Fauconnier Further details of the authorities the Company will be seeking at the was elected a director of the Company and Paul Hazen retired from next AGM to issue and allot ordinary shares of US$0.50 each are set the Board.
There were no other changes to the membership of out in the Notice of AGM.
the Board during the year.
The non-executive directors possess a Board meetings range of experience and are of sufficiently high calibre to bring Five scheduled Board meetings were held during the year and two independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance additional meetings took place.
Attendance by directors at Board and resources that are vital to the success of the Group.
meetings and at meetings of standing committees of the Board is The Board is satisfied that it met and meets the requirements of the shown below.
In addition, the Chairman held a separate meeting Code in maintaining an effective Board which is collectively responsible with the non-executive directors without the executive directors for the long-term success of the Company.
being present and the non-executive directors held a separate meeting without the Chairman being present.
All Board meetings Board balance and independence are held in Switzerland.
There are four formally constituted Of the eight non-executive directors, six are considered by the Board committees of the Board.
Details of attendance at Board and to be independent of management and free from any business or committee meetings are given below.
The role and work of these other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of committees is described in detail on pages 115 to 118. their independent judgement, and two, Willy Strothotte and Ivan Glasenberg, are directors of Glencore International AG Glencore.
Willy Strothotte is Chairman and Ivan Glasenberg is Chief Executive Officer of Glencore.
The Board has considered these associations and considers the industry expertise and experience of the Glencore nominated directors is beneficial to the Group.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 111 Attendance at Board meetings and committees of the Board Health, Safety, Board Board Environment & Director 5 scheduled 2 ad hoc Audit 3 Remuneration 2 Community 4 Nominations 3 Mick Davis 5 1 4 Con Fauconnier 4 out of 4 1 1 out of 1 3 out of 3 Ivan Glasenberg 4 2 3 Paul Hazen# 1 out of 1 1 out of 1 Peter Hooley 5 3 Claude Lamoureux 5 3 4 Sir Steve Robson 5 1 3 3 David Rough 5 3 2 4 3 Trevor Reid 5 1 Ian Strachan 5 3 4 Willy Strothotte 5 2 2 Santiago Zaldumbide 5 1 Elected on 5 May 2010.
Chairman and Chief Executive Performance evaluation A clear separation is maintained between the responsibilities of the Board evaluation is undertaken annually, and every three years is Chairman and the Chief Executive.
This is documented in a statement conducted by an external facilitator.
For the 2010 evaluation, the approved by the Board which was reviewed and updated by the Board engaged Egon Zehnder International to undertake a formal Board at the July 2010 Board meeting to comply with the new UK review of the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Corporate Governance Code.
committees and, individually, all of its directors.
The process was based on structured in-depth interviews during which the following The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring subjects were explored: composition and skill-sets: relationships its effectiveness in all aspects of its role by promoting a culture of across all the various axes in the team: processes and information openness and debate, and by facilitating the contribution of flows: succession planning and other people issues: strategy process, non-executive directors.
He is also responsible for ensuring that good behaviours at and between Board meetings.
The main conclusions communication is maintained with shareholders, that all directors are were that the Board continued to operate as an effective body, made aware of their major shareholders issues and concerns, and providing strong entrepreneurial leadership, and a meaningful and that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board as a helpful challenge on strategy.
Looking to the future, the importance whole.
His duties also include ensuring that the directors continually of retaining or recruiting directors with the depth of knowledge to update their skills and their knowledge of and familiarity with the provide meaningful challenge was acknowledged, and with the focus Company and the regular review and discussion with each director on the development of organic growth projects in the coming years, of their training and development needs.
the review recognised that the Board could be strengthened by The Chief Executive has executive responsibility for the running of recruiting an additional director with direct mining or major projects the Companys business.
In particular this includes: the responsibility experience to complement the experience of Dr. Con Fauconnier to evaluate and recommend strategic policy and direction for Board and Ian Strachan.
The non-executive directors were seen to provide consideration: review and recommend for Board consideration and appropriate scrutiny of performance against goals.
approval the annual financial statements, annual business plans and Appointment of directors budgets, and interim accounts: maintain effective risk management The rules for the replacement and appointment of directors are set and internal control systems including financial, operational and out in the Articles of Association.
Directors may only be appointed by compliance controls: facilitate the production of detailed proposals the shareholders of the Company by ordinary resolution and not by and reviews for Board meetings: and provide the Board with the Board of directors.
Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement accurate, timely and clear information.
to which the Company is a party with Glencore dated 20 March 2002, David Rough is the Deputy Chairman and the Senior Independent Glencore, as a significant shareholder of Xstrata, can nominate up Director.
His role and responsibilities as the Senior Independent to three directors or if lower or higher such number of directors Director are detailed in and formalised by Board resolution and, in equal to one less than the number of directors who are independent summary, are that he should be available to shareholders to discuss directors, provided that there is at all times a majority of independent their concerns when the normal channels would not be appropriate directors on the Board.
At present, Glencore has two nominated for this purpose, to have contact with analysts and major shareholders directors on the Board, Willy Strothotte, who will be retiring at the to obtain a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns, AGM, and Ivan Glasenberg.
to chair the Nominations Committee, and to lead the Board and director appraisal process.
| 112 Governance Corporate Governance report continued Re-election of directors Sir John Bond has an exceptional record of shareholder value In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors creation in his distinguished career, during which he has successfully will retire at the forthcoming AGM on 4 May 2011 and all directors, chaired two major international companies and gained unrivalled other than Willy Strothotte, will offer themselves for re-election.
experience in the worlds emerging Asian economies.
The Board has Following the appraisal of the non-executive directors facilitated every confidence that Sir John will make a significant contribution by Egon Zehnder, the Board was satisfied that each directors to the Xstrata Board and the ongoing success of the Company.
performance continued to be effective and that each director Following his election to the Board, it is intended that he will also continued to demonstrate commitment to the role, and recommends chair the Nominations Committee and serve as a member of the the re-election of those directors standing for re-election.
considered the independence of David Rough and Sir Steve Robson, Information and professional development and was satisfied that, notwithstanding the fact that they have been As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Board expressed directors of the Company for a period in excess of nine years, they its satisfaction that the information provided in the Board papers is both continue to be independent in character and judgement and of the right quality, format and length to allow a full understanding of that there were no other grounds disclosed or of which the Board all the relevant issues with respect to the matters under consideration, was aware that could affect their independence.
In addition, the and was satisfied that the Board is kept informed of all areas of Board was of the view that with the appointment of a new major importance to the Company.
The Board is provided periodically Chairman, it would be important to maintain an element of with reports on changes in UK laws and regulation, and Glencores continuity in Board membership.
representative directors brief the Board on market conditions and Further details about the directors standing for re-election, their developments.
The Board is also kept informed through circulated skills and experience, and their roles within the Group are given monthly reports.
in the directors biographies on pages 102 and 103.
All directors are made aware that they may take independent New appointments to the Board professional advice at the expense of the Company in the A search for a new independent non-executive director to succeed furtherance of their duties.
All directors have access to the advice Willy Strothotte as Chairman was conducted by the Nominations and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Committee with the assistance of an executive search consultancy.
Board for ensuring that all governance matters are complied with The Boards mandate was to identify an individual with impeccable and assists with professional development as required.
credentials in creating value for shareholders, wide international New directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining experience, and highly regarded by the global investment the Board.
In addition, ongoing support and resources are provided community.
The mandate also recognised the importance of to directors in order to enable them to extend and refresh their skills, considering a diverse range of candidates to augment the Boards knowledge and familiarity with the Company.
Following a comprehensive search, the Nominations and training is provided in three complementary ways: regular updating Committee recommended that Sir John Bond be invited to join the with information on changes and proposed changes in laws and Board as an independent non-executive to succeed Willy Strothotte regulations affecting the Group or its businesses: arrangements, as Chairman of the Company.
He will be proposed by the Board including site visits, to ensure directors are familiar with the Groups for election by the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
operations: and opportunities for professional and skills training.
Sir John Bond, aged 69, is currently chairman and non-executive Remuneration director of Vodafone Group plc from which he will resign on 26 July Remuneration is covered in the Remuneration report on pages 2011.
He was appointed to the board of Vodafone in 2005 and 119 to 129 and a description of the work of the Remuneration became chairman in 2006.
He is also a director of A. P. Moller-Maersk Committee, on pages 116 and 117.
A S Denmark, the international shipping and investment company, and Shui On Land Ltd, a Hong Kong quoted property development Accountability and audit company specialising in China.
He retired as Group Chairman of Financial reporting HSBC Holdings plc in 2006, having also been its Group Chief The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and Executive from 1993 to 1998.
He holds advisory roles with Northern clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and the Trust Corp, USA, and with KKR Asia.
He is also a member of various Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This assessment is advisory bodies in China: China Development Forum: China Banking primarily provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Regulatory Commission International Advisory Board: and Tsinghua report and the Operating and Financial review contained in this report.
School of Economics and Management at Tsinghua University.
The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Group and parent company financial statements is set out on page 132.
com 113 Risk management and internal control Group policies are established by head office management for General application across the whole Group.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent ii Risk identification and evaluation of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic The Board considers effective risk management as essential to the objectives.
The Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the achievement of the Groups objectives and has implemented a Groups risk management and internal control systems which cover structured and comprehensive system across the Group.
The Group all material controls including financial, operational and compliance Risk Management Policy is published on the Xstrata website at controls and compliance with Turnbull Guidance.
Board relies on reviews undertaken by the Audit Committee supported by the business unit audit committees.
The Xstrata approach to risk management is value-driven and has the stated objective of ensuring an environment where we can An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating confidently grow shareholder value through developing and and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This process protecting our people, our assets, our environment and our has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the reputation.
The process is thorough and robust and is an essential date of the approval of the annual report and financial statements.
element of the Groups approach to business planning.
The Audit Committee reviews this process and the effectiveness of the system of internal control by considering the regular reports from The head office and each business unit carry out a comprehensive management on key risks, mitigating actions and internal controls, annual risk review and update their risk registers accordingly.
management representations and assertions, and the reports on risk Objectives in the business plan are aligned with risks, and a summary management and internal control from internal audit, the external of the key risks, related internal controls, accountabilities and further auditors and other assurance providers such as sustainable mitigating actions that are planned is appended to the business plan development management.
that is reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee and is reviewed by the Board.
The principal aim of the risk management and internal control systems is the management of business risks that are significant Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk profile to the fulfilment of the Groups strategic objectives, with a view and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported to enhancing the value of the shareholders investment and at each business unit audit committee and Xstrata plc Audit Committee safeguarding of assets.
The internal control systems have been meeting, as well as to the Executive Committee and the Board, as designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to and when necessary.
achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute The output of the process has been reviewed by the Group assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors and business unit audit committees, and accords with the confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Turnbull Guidance.
management and internal control systems.
This review excludes associates of the Group as Xstrata management does not have the iii Information and financial reporting systems ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these entities.
The Groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead Control environment and a plan for the following two years.
The Board reviews and The key elements and procedures that have been established to approves the resulting three-year budget and plan.
Plans and budgets provide an effective risk management and internal control system are prepared on the basis of consistent economic assumptions are as follows: determined by the Group finance function.
Performance is monitored i Organisational structure and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly There is a well-defined organisational structure, with clear operating reporting of key performance indicators, updated forecasts for procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
current and subsequent two years together with information on the key risk areas.
The way the Group conducts its business, expectations of management and key accountabilities are embodied in the Comprehensive monthly management reports for each business unit Groups policies, its Statement of Business Principles and Board and on a Group consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for level authority limits.
the year, are prepared and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Controller.
Detailed consolidated management accounts, The Group operates a decentralised management model.
The Board together with an executive summary from the Chief Executive, are sets overall policy, and appropriate authority to implement that policy circulated monthly to all directors.
is delegated to the Xstrata Alloys, Coal, Copper, Nickel and Zinc businesses and supporting functions.
The business units have iv Investment appraisal responsibility for implementing business plans within the budgets A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital approved by the Board in accordance with authorisation levels.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written business units are responsible for profitability to the level of earnings proposals are submitted to the business unit Chief Executives or before interest and taxation EBIT.
Business unit boards meet executive committee, or to the Group Chief Executive, Executive regularly and either the Group Chief Executive or Chief Financial Committee or Board, in accordance with Board delegated authority Officer attend as representatives of head office.
Calculations of net present value NPV, internal rates of | 114 Governance Corporate Governance report continued return IRR and return on capital employed ROCE, and sustainable viii Further initiatives development assessments are carried out as part of the process.
The Group is committed to the ongoing review and improvement Procedures are also in place for the early involvement of an of its policies, systems and processes.
independent engineer to review and provide independent assurance Reports on sustainable development matters and the results on major capital projects.
Economic assumptions used reflect the emanating from the established assurance programmes are produced latest forward prices where possible for the short and medium term, and reviewed by the Sustainable Development Committee and by and centrally agreed long-term assumptions.
Reviews are carried the Executive Committee.
out after the project is complete, and for some projects during the construction period, to monitor progress against plan: major The Group also has a control self assessment process in place overruns and non-conformance to sustainable development goals through which the business units are required to sign off a Letter of are investigated.
Commercial, legal, financial and sustainable Representation covering a wide range of topics at both the half-year and development due diligence work, using outside consultants, year-end, which are presented to the business unit audit committees.
is undertaken in respect of acquisitions as appropriate.
Relations with shareholders v Treasury Committee Dialogue with shareholders A Treasury Committee operates as a sub-committee of Xstrata The Board places considerable importance on effective Schweiz AG Exco.
Its membership consists of the Chief Executive, communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Chief Financial Officer, Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
Financial Officer, assisted by the Executive General Manager of The Committee recommends Group policy, relating to all aspects Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs, maintain regular dialogue of funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange with and give briefings throughout the year to analysts and exposures, which is submitted to the Group Board for approval and institutional investors, and are involved in a structured programme it co-ordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other of investor and analyst site visits.
Presentations are given by the Chief financial institutions.
The Committee monitors all significant treasury Executive and Chief Financial Officer after Xstratas preliminary activities undertaken by Group companies and ensures compliance announcements of the year-end results, at the half-year and in with Group policy.
the event of a major transaction or corporate event.
Care is taken vi Internal audit to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all Internal audit is an important element of the overall process by shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, in which the Executive Committee and the Board seek the assurance accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules they require that risks are properly identified, evaluated, managed and the SIX Swiss Exchange requirements.
Risk-based internal audit plans, prepared on an The Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders to annual basis, are approved by the Audit Committee and timely hear any concerns that contact with the Group Chairman, Chief reports on achievement of the plans and findings are presented Executive or Chief Financial Officer failed to resolve or for which to the business unit audit committees.
The Group-wide internal audit function is supplemented by All shareholders can obtain access to the annual reports and other outsourced service providers when the required expertise is not current information about Xstrata through its website at available in-house.
This is particularly relevant as the Company moves www.
The operating and financial reviews on pages 50 into a phase of higher capital spend with an increased focus on to 95 include a detailed report on the business and future project assurance which has necessitated the establishment of an developments.
embedded process of independent engineers working with the internal audit team on major project management reviews.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All directors normally attend Xstratas AGM and shareholders are vii Bribery fraud management and whistleblowing invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after There is a formal Group policy on bribery, fraud and corruption, the formal proceedings have ended.
At the time of the listing in March including reporting and investigation arrangements and, in line 2002, shareholders in the former Xstrata AG were informed that the with best practice, including whistleblowing procedures.
There are Company would offer shareholders the opportunity to attend general independently operated confidential hotlines in various countries meetings in Switzerland where the head office resides, even though in which the Group operates, through which employees and the Company was incorporated and has its registered office in contractors or any other parties can report any breach of Xstratas England.
Given this history and the number of shares still held in or Business Principles and Group policies including the Global Policy through Switzerland, the Board continues to consider it is appropriate on Bribery, Fraud and Corruption.
The contact details are published for the AGM to be held in Zug, Switzerland.
A live and archived in the Statement of Business Principles which are found on webcast of the AGM is also provided via Xstratas website.
A global uses the AGM to communicate with institutional and private investors Code of Conduct was developed in 2010 and is being launched and welcomes their participation.
At the AGM on 5 May 2010, the across the Group in March 2011 to provide additional guidance Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations to employees, contractors and associated persons on putting the and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committees were Business Principles into practice.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 115 at the AGM on 4 May 2011 can be found in the Notice of AGM.
The b reviewed the 2009 annual financial statements and the external Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be auditors detailed reports thereon, including the appropriateness by way of a poll.
Each member present in person or by proxy has one of Xstrata Groups accounting policies, the Litigation Report, the vote for each fully paid ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
going concern statement, banking covenants and asset impairment charges, and recommended approval by the Board: Board committees c reviewed the external auditors plan and scope for the audit of The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations the Xstrata Group accounts, and approved their remuneration and HSEC Committees are available on the Companys website both for audit and non-audit work, and their terms of www.
It also considered and approved the engagement Audit Committee of the auditors in respect of a number of non-audit assignments: Members: d reviewed the 2010 interim financial statements and noted that Peter Hooley Chairman from 5 May 2010 Independent improved trading results and higher commodity prices had Sir Steve Robson Chairman to 5 May 2010 Independent reduced the risk of further impairment: Claude Lamoureux Independent David Rough Independent e at a meeting of the Committee in December 2010, reviewed Ian Strachan Independent an impairment charge of $437m post-tax in respect of Xstrata Nickels Araguaia project, reflecting the fact that development Responsibilities: of this project is not seen as a priority at this stage: The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities with regard to financial reporting and external and f recommended to the Board the reappointment of the external internal audits and controls, including: reviewing Xstratas annual auditors following confirmation of auditor objectivity and financial statements: considering the scope of the Companys annual independence, and an evaluation of their effectiveness which external audit and the extent of non-audit work undertaken by rated the auditors highly: external auditors: approving the Companys internal audit g reviewed the Companys internal financial controls and the programme: advising on the appointment of external auditors: and effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and control systems.
The Committee noted the introduction of a internal control systems including bribery and fraud, risk registers revised Group Risk Management Policy and new Group Risk and and the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Change Management procedure guidelines based on ISO 31000.
While all members of the Committee are financially literate, Peter The UK Corporate Governance Code requirements relating to Hooley is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the financial experience.
significant risks the Company is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives were noted.
The Committee noted that the The Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Controller, Companys internal control systems and operations were representatives of the Companys external auditors and the Head of examined and tested by the internal auditors: Internal Audit normally attend the meetings.
Other directors of the Company and senior management may also, on invitation by the h reviewed the plans being developed to implement the new Committee, attend and speak, but not vote, at any meeting of the requirements resulting from the enactment of the UK Bribery Act Audit Committee.
In order to further enhance communication and 2010 and noted that, when implemented, this will bring about best practice, the Chairmen of the business unit audit committees a more comprehensive environment for UK companies.
It was and the Chief Executives of the business units are also invited to agreed that the Audit Committee should accept delegated attend the Audit Committee meetings on a rotational basis.
The responsibility from the Board for oversight of the Global Policy on Audit Committee reports its activities and makes recommendations Bribery, Fraud and Corruption, and for a Code of Conduct which to the Board.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year covers a broader range of ethical behaviour.
The Committee ended 31 December 2010. reviewed the framework for the oversight of ethical issues: A member of the Audit Committee also attends the meetings of the i reviewed the structure and limits of the Xstrata Group insurance business unit audit committees to help promote a co-ordinated and policies, and considered these to be appropriate, and reviewed consistent approach among the Groups audit committees.
During the pensions, tax and treasury affairs of the Group: 2010 the Audit Committee: j reviewed and approved the internal audit plans for 2011, the a approved the 2009 preliminary results announcement and effectiveness of the internal audit function and, at each meeting, reviewed managements impairment testing in detail, including reviewed the reports on findings and on progress against the $1.9bn post tax impairment charge in respect of Xstrata recommendations.
At each meeting, the Audit Committee also Nickels Australian, Norwegian and Canadian operations.
The reviewed a report on major projects in terms of achievement of Committee believed that the positions taken and amounts agreed control and project management objectives delivery targets: recorded were appropriate and that assumptions were k reviewed an Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report, subject reasonable and within the range of the latest forecasts, to review by an independent expert, to ensure consistency of where available: reporting across the Group and with international standards: | 116 Governance Corporate Governance report continued l reviewed the report on fraud-related matters and the Remuneration Committee whistleblowing arrangements: and Members: Willy Strothotte Chairman m conducted, and was satisfied with, an assessment of its own Con Fauconnier Independent from 5 May 2010 effectiveness and that all matters required by law, regulation and Paul Hazen Independent to 5 May 2010 good corporate governance, including the duties and David Rough Independent responsibilities delegated to it by the Board, were satisfactorily covered by the Committee.
Responsibilities: The principal roles of the Remuneration Committee are: to consider Following each Committee meeting, separate meetings were held by and determine all elements of the remuneration of the Chief the Committee with the external auditors in the absence of executive Executive and Chief Financial Officer and of the heads of the management, with executive management in the absence of the business units of the Company the Executive Committee as defined external auditors and with the internal auditor in the absence of by the Chief Executive: and to determine targets for any executive management and the external auditors.
performance-related pay schemes operated by the Company.
At its The Group has a specific policy governing the conduct of non-audit meetings, the Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to work by the external auditors which ensures that the Company is in the Board in regard to all elements of the remuneration for the compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code, the FRC executive directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
Guidance on Audit Committees and the Ethical Standards for The Remuneration Committee receives independent advice on Auditors published by the Auditing Practices Board.
The policy is benchmarking and best practice.
The remuneration of non-executive available on Xstratas website at http: www.
directors, other than the Chairman, is approved by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the The auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services that are Remuneration Committee while the Chairman is absent.
not in conflict with auditor independence and objectivity.
At each meeting, reports are submitted to the Audit Committee detailing The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte.
As non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
A range of non-audit Chairman of Xstrata and Chairman of Glencore, he is not considered services has been pre-approved in principle by the Audit Committee.
to be an independent director and therefore is not compliant with However, where the fee is likely to be in excess of $100,000 for such the Combined Code.
The Board regards Willy Strothottes pre-approved services, specific re-approval is required from the Audit membership as beneficial to the work of the Committee due to his Committee, while prior approval of the Chief Financial Officer is extensive knowledge and experience of the global mining resources required for those pre-approved services where the fee is likely to be sector.
The Board considers that this is consistent with the main less than $100,000.
However, any non-audit services provided by the principle in Code B.
2 of the Combined Code and contributes to external auditors which have not been pre-approved require the good governance.
However, Willy Strothotte will retire from the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
Board, effective from the end of the AGM on 4 May 2011, and the Company will then be fully compliant with the UK Corporate Fees paid to the auditor for audit services, audit-related services and Governance Code.
The Committee met twice during the year.
The other non-audit services per service type are detailed in Note 10 Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation but does not to the financial statements on page 165.
The external auditors, participate at a meeting of the Committee or during the relevant Ernst & Young, were requested to provide certain non-audit services part at which any part of his remuneration is being discussed or when it was concluded they were the most appropriate supplier due participate in any recommendation or decision concerning to efficiency and Ernst & Youngs status as a leading firm for the his remuneration.
The Remuneration Committees activities in respect of the year ended The Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by 31 December 2010 included: separate audit committees for each business unit in line with the decentralised commodity business unit model.
The business unit a determining the bonuses for 2009 performance and salaries audit committees are independent of the executive management for 2011 for the executive directors and members of the of the business unit and are chaired by suitably qualified individuals Executive Committee: independent of Xstrata.
The terms of reference of these committees b determining the vesting percentage applicable to awards under follow those of Xstratas Audit Committee.
Meeting dates precede the Long Term Incentive Plan 2007 which vested in March 2010, those of Xstratas Audit Committee and minutes of their meetings approving the number of share options and contingent share are circulated to Xstratas Audit Committee.
awards to be awarded under the 2010 Long Term Incentive Plan awards and the individual awards to members of the Executive Committee: Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials | www.
com 117 c receiving a report from KPMG on the vesting calculation for the d noting the letters from the former Minister of Trade to UK 2007 Added Value Incentive Plan Award, showing Xstrata had company chairmen recommending the appointment of women underperformed against the TSR Index over the three-year to company boards.
The Committee confirmed that its policy is vesting period and that no payments were due under the Plan.
to appoint the best candidates available based on merit in The Added Value Plan was due to finish in 2010, and given the accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and to cast change in the Companys strategy to developing brownfield and its net as widely as possible in the search for a candidate who greenfield sites, it was agreed that Mr. Davis revert to being a would bring to the Board the skills, experience and knowledge participant in the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan: required.
A female candidate for the Board had recently been considered and interviewed but withdrew from the selection d approving the 2009 remuneration report for the 2009 process after accepting an offer from another company: Annual Report: e proposing the engagement of Egon Zehnder International to e agreeing an increase to the Chairmans remuneration in 2010 facilitate the board evaluation process: and to 250,000, and increasing the fee structure for non-executive directors in 2010 by approximately 3%: and f assessing a directors potential conflict of interest situation, proposing terms on which that situation might be authorised f determining the amount of the total award to be granted under and recommending these for authorisation by the Board.
the Xstrata Long Term Incentive Plan in 2011.
Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee HSEC Details of Xstratas remuneration for executive directors, benefits, Members share options, retirement benefit entitlements, service contracts and Ian Strachan Chairman Independent compensation payments are given in the Remuneration report on Mick Davis pages 119 to 129.
A resolution to approve the remuneration report Con Fauconnier Independent will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
David Rough Independent Nominations Committee Claude Lamoureux Independent Members: Responsibilities: David Rough Chairman Independent The principal roles of the HSEC Committee are to review and make Ivan Glasenberg recommendations to the Board on the appropriateness and Sir Steve Robson Independent effectiveness of HSEC strategy, performance and governance.
It also Responsibilities: reviews the outcomes of all investigations into critical HSEC incidents The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending and keeps the Board informed of new developments, trends and or candidates for appointment to the Board, the composition of the forthcoming significant legislation on HSEC matters which may be Board, and orderly successions to the Board.
The Committee reviews relevant to the Xstrata Groups operations, its assets or employees.
the structure of the Board of directors, identifying, evaluating and Xstratas Sustainability report for 2010 to be published in April 2011 recommending candidates for Board vacancies and making provides a detailed and comprehensive report on Xstratas recommendations on the continuation of existing directors in office sustainable development performance and targets.
to ensure there is a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge and During the year ended 31 December 2010, the HSEC Committee experience.
The Committee also determines succession plans for the met four times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: Chairman and Chief Executive, and assesses directors potential conflict of interest situations and makes recommendations thereon a monitoring and evaluating reports on the implementation and to the Board.
effectiveness of Xstratas Sustainable Development Policy, Sustainable Development Standards, Sustainable Development During the year ended 31 December 2010, the Nominations strategy and Sustainable Development assurance: Committee met three times.
Its activities in respect of that year included: b a review of Xstrata Alloys Sustainable Development strategy and performance.
The Committee also reviewed the comprehensive a reviewing the plan for the retirement by rotation and re-election wellness programme introduced by Xstrata Alloys for their South of directors of Xstrata and the framework for Board succession African workforce and their families.
The Committee took note planning for 2011 to 2013: of the enormous improvements made by Xstrata Alloys in their b recommending that in future all directors should retire at the Sustainable Development and HSEC performance.
The AGM and, where appropriate, stand for re-election: Committee also discussed a project investigating the possibility of utilising algae to sequester carbon dioxide emissions c mandating Egon Zehnder International to commence a search from furnaces: for and to prepare a shortlist of candidates with a view to the possible recommendation of a candidate for appointment as an independent non-executive director to succeed Willy Strothotte as Chairman: | 118 Governance Corporate Governance report continued c a review of Xstrata Zincs Sustainable Development strategy Executive Committee and performance.
The Committee recognised the significant Members: improvements made by Xstrata Zinc in safety performance since Mick Davis Chairman, also Xstrata plc Chief Executive 2002, reducing the total recordable injury frequency rates Trevor Reid Chief Financial Officer TRIFR, lost time injury frequency rates LTIFR and disabling Santiago Zaldumbide Xstrata Zinc injury severity rates DISR by 87%, 93% and 69% respectively.
Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper The Committee also reviewed Xstrata Zincs plans for further Peter Freyberg Xstrata Coal reductions in sulphur dioxide emissions at the Mt Isa lead smelter Ian Pearce Xstrata Nickel in Australia: Peet Nienaber Xstrata Alloys Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel d a review of Xstrata Coppers Sustainable Development strategy Thras Moraitis Executive General Manager, Group Strategy and and performance.
The Committee noted Xstrata Coppers Corporate Affairs performance with respect to high potential risk incidents, TRIFR, LTIFR and DISR, which is world-class, and agreed that in future Responsibilities: it will compare performance against the best in class in each The Executive Committee is a committee of the Board of Xstrata category in the mining sector.
Reports were also received on the Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The social responsibility programmes for Las Bambas and Tampakan Executive Committee obtains its responsibility and authority from which were seen to be making progress: the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board and is directly accountable to the Xstrata plc Board.
Other members of senior management are invited e a review of Xstrata Coals Sustainable Development strategy, to attend Executive Committee meetings as required.
The Executive performance and governance structure.
The Committee received Committee is responsible for implementing strategy, approval of a progress report on Xstrata Coals safety initiative SafeCoal, matters consistent with its delegated levels of authority and overseeing their investments in low emission technology, Coal and the the various businesses that comprise the Group.
It meets regularly Environment a programme addressing issues around the during the year.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
mining and the use of coal, and Xstrata Coals strategy and work with their local communities: f a review of the half-year Sustainable Development report which showed continuing improvements in all areas of HSEC across the Group and the successful integration of Sustainable Development risk audits into the internal annual audit programme.
The Committee also noted the success of Xstrata Coals SafeCoal initiative which achieved the 2010 injury reduction objectives within the first six months of the year: g monitoring and evaluating reports on high potential risk incidents and the results of investigations into fatalities and other critical HSEC incidents.
While expressing regret for all fatalities, the Committee noted that the number of fatalities had reduced from nine in 2009 to three in 2010: h approving the contents of the 2009 Xstrata plc Sustainability Report and noting that it fulfils the requirements of the socially responsible investment community: and i noting the Companys leadership position in sustainable development in the mining sector.
Xstrata was named Global Sector Leader for Mining in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI for the fourth consecutive year, and the second time as the Global Super Sector Leader for Basic Resources in the DJSI.
Xstrata also retained its leadership position in the UKs Business in the Community Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Group 2009 Sustainability Report, published in 2010, received the FTSE 100s Building Public Trust award for 2010.
