59 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
In accordance with that law the Directors have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted in the European Union, and the Companys financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
The Groups and the Companys financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit and loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing those financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the Groups financial statements comply with IFRS and that with regard to the Companys financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Each of the Directors confirms that to the best of his knowledge: the Group financial statements set out on pages 84 to 124 which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and the Business review contained on pages 16 to 49 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the Companys financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates in the Group and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board of Directors.
The Combined Code The Boards statement as to compliance with the principles and provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code is set out on pages 60 to 64.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the auditors have considered the Directors statement of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code which are specified for their review.
Approval of report The Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2010, from pages 15 to 66 of this Annual Report document, has been approved by the Board of Directors on 10 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Albert Dungate Company Secretary 10 May 2010
