61 Balance One of the Main Principles of the Combined Code is that there should be a balance of executive and non-executive directors particularly independent directors and that, as a supporting principle, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent non-executive directors.
The Company complied with these principles throughout the year under review.
With the appointment of two new Executive Directors on 1 May 2010, it is recognised that there is a now a need to appoint at least one new independent non-executive director to ensure resumed compliance with these principles: this will be addressed as a priority.
Refreshing of the Board A new Chairman Mike Turner was appointed in 2008.
A new independent Non-Executive Director David Omand was appointed on 1 April 2009 and a long-serving Non-Executive Dipesh Shah retired from the Board on 9 July 2009.
The other independent Non-Executive Directors have served between four and half years and eight years in office.
On 1 May 2010 two new Executive Directors were appointed Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas.
As noted above, it is also the intention to appoint at least one new independent non-executive director as a priority.
The Board considers that between them its members provide an appropriate balance of skills, understanding and experience, both of the Companys businesses and of the wider, political, commercial and industrial worlds pertinent to the Groups operations and strategy, and that it has steadily refreshed itself over the years at a pace appropriate to the Companys size and development and in a way that is in the best interest of shareholders.
Directors are normally reappointed at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and subsequently have to offer themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
It is the Companys policy to review rigorously the reappointment of Non-Executive Directors who have served more than six years.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board explains, in notes accompanying the notice of meeting, why it recommends the re-election of the Non-Executive Director proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Alexander Hesketh.
The Chairman confirms in those notes, as required by the Combined Code, that, having formally evaluated his performance, the Board is of the view that Lord Hesketh continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board and, where applicable, committee meetings and other duties.
Board procedures and attendance During the year to 31 March 2010, there were ten scheduled meetings.
Attendance at those meetings was as follows: Scheduled Board meetings Director attended Mike Turner 10 Alexander Hesketh 10 Peter Rogers 10 Bill Tame 9 John Rennocks 10 Dipesh Shah retired 9 July 2009 3 Nigel Essenhigh 10 Justin Crookenden 10 David Omand 10 One meeting missed due to illness.
In addition, there were special Board or Board Committee meetings to consider and approve certain arrangements relating to the VT Acquisition.
These were either attended by all Directors or, where this proved not to be possible due to the short notice nature of the meetings, a Director unable to attend was provided with the papers for the meeting and his views obtained by the Chairman and or the Chief Executive before the meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board and matters which the Board has delegated to Committees or to the authority of one or more Executive Directors which is periodically reviewed.
The Board has, for example, given authority for the holding of ad hoc meetings of any two Directors to deal with matters generally in accordance with delegated authorities approved by the Board, including a Finance Committee.
It also from time to time establishes special committees for specific purposes, for example in connection with specific acquisitions.
62 Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Board retains responsibility, inter alia, for the setting and regular review of overall strategy for the Group, the approval of budgets, the making of business acquisitions or divestments and the approval of group policies and material changes to them.
It maintains general oversight of performance against budgets, progress in the implementation of group strategy and the ethical, social, health, safety, environmental and governance culture and processes of the Group either directly or through special committees.
Debate and discussion at Board and committee meetings is open, challenging and constructive with Directors benefiting from regular presentations by functional or operational management and the submission of regular written reports.
The Chairman regularly meets Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors or other managers present.
All Directors have full and timely access to information.
Evaluation During the year, a review of the performance of the Board as a whole, its committees and individual Directors including the Chairman was carried out using the services of an independent facilitator, Professor Stuart Timperley, who conducted a series of confidential interviews with each Board member, the Company Secretary and members of senior management.
He then reported his findings to the Chairman and the whole Board at a meeting which discussed those findings.
Professor Timperley has conducted two earlier such reviews for the Company.
The benefit of his prior acquaintance with certain of the Directors and other interviewees, provided the basis for an open and full dialogue and gave him a, perhaps unique, ability to understand the needs of the Company and the Board.
Apart from conducting such reviews, Professor Timperley has on occasion provided personal mentoring to one or two members of the senior management team.
Change in Chairmans significant external commitments During the year, Mike Turners significant external commitments changed in that he was appointed as a non-executive director of GKN plc on 1 September 2009.
The Board is satisfied that this commitment has no impact on the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
Board Committees Details of the membership and operation of the Audit and Risk Committee and its work can be found on pages 65 and 66 and of the Remuneration Committee in the Remuneration report on pages 67 to 82.
Nominations Committee In the year to 31 March 2010, the Nominations Committee consisted of unless otherwise stated, throughout the year : Mike Turner Committee Chairman Dipesh J Shah to 9 July 2009 John Rennocks Nigel Essenhigh Alexander Hesketh Justin Crookenden David Omand Membership of this Committee is open to all the Non-Executive Directors provided that at its meetings there is a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Its terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
During the year, the Committee did not need to meet formally.
Discussions relating to management changes, succession planning and development were held from time to time in the course of Board meetings and were the subject of a full and formal presentation to the Board at one of those meetings.
Whistleblowing arrangements These arrangements are dealt with in the Corporate responsibility section on page 37.
Non-audit fees The Audit and Risk Committee Chairman must authorise any engagement of auditors on non-audit work that would entail their being paid fees in excess of 20% of the audit fee in any year.
Before giving that authority, he considers potential conflicts and the possibility of actual or perceived threats to the independence of the external auditors.
Authority is given only when he considers it is in the Companys interest to do so.
63 Contact with shareholders The Group has a full-time Head of Investor Relations whose role is to ensure that there is regular dialogue between the Company, its principal shareholders and the wider market so that there is a clear understanding of their respective views and that investors have a good understanding of the Company and its management.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director regularly meet institutional shareholders and analysts.
Reports of these meetings are sent to the Board, which also receives at each of its meetings an Investor Relations Report from the Head of Investor Relations.
The Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity for communication with shareholders.
All of the Companys Directors attended the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
The Companys website keeps shareholders abreast of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders can register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
Information and training for Directors The Company makes arrangements for new Non-Executive Directors to receive detailed business briefings as regards the Groups operations and arranges induction visits to the Groups principal sites.
Director training for new directors, when appropriate, is arranged with external providers.
General Director training that might be of potential interest or relevance to Directors can be arranged on request, for which the Company is willing to pay.
The Company Secretary briefs Board members about significant changes in the law affecting their duties as Directors.
Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made to sites.
Presentations on the Groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Group Board from time to time.
Non-Executive Directors received copies of all minutes of meetings of the Group Executive Committee during the year and will also be receiving copies of the minutes of the principal divisional boards going forward.
Directors regularly receive the operating reports sent to the Group head office by the business units.
Internal controls, control environment, procedures and monitoring The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, and for monitoring its effectiveness.
There is a written delegation of matters from the Board to committees of one or more Directors.
The Board retains responsibility for: setting overall strategy: approving annual budgets: authorising business acquisitions and disposals: approving significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business: and setting treasury and borrowing policy.
There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks throughout the year to 31 March 2010 and up to the date of the approval of the financial statements for that year.
The Board considers the system to be effective and in accordance with Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The internal control system is monitored through review visits by Group management and the internal audit service provided by Ernst & Young LLP, which acts under the overall control and direction of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The system covers any material joint ventures or associates.
