Business review Babcock International Group PLC 39 Corporate responsibility continued Apprentices Apprentice recruitment is undertaken Employee communications by each division as appropriate for its future requirements.
We communicate with our employees in a number of ways We have 519 apprentices in training within our UK to keep them informed of strategic developments and the operations 2009: 535, of whom 170 were recruited this financial performance of the Group as well as promoting best year 2009: 159.
We offer accredited apprenticeships practice initiatives.
in a wide range of different trades relevant to the operations This year, a Group-wide intranet was re-launched across all our of each division.
businesses with a view to disseminating best practice and In South Africa we recruited 53 apprentices 2009: 50 providing resources in cross-sectional areas including business working on three or four-year schemes.
In addition, we are development and marketing, IT, health and safety and HR.
This working in conjunction with a training institution to train is in addition to the existing divisional intranets and newsletters 80 A-class welder apprentices between 2010 and 2012 that provide locally relevant information to employees.
and our aim is to provide employment opportunities to all Our Group-wide Employee Forum meets twice a year.
Each the welder apprentices who will have satisfactorily completed business unit sends their elected representative to be informed their training.
of and consulted on all major developments within the Group.
Graduates Our graduate programme covers disciplines such Representatives consult within their businesses and bring any as engineering, naval architecture, finance, HR, IT and issues to the Forum to be discussed.
We provide formal development, training programmes, coaching and mentoring so participants Customers and have the opportunity to achieve accredited status with an appropriate professional body.
In the year to 31 March 2010, customer relations our intake for the Babcock Group graduate programme was Strong customer relations are at the heart of any support 101 graduates 2009: 108.
The slightly lower number of services business and Babcock is no exception.
We pride graduates is a result of the current economic climate, as places ourselves on our ability to work in partnership with our on the programme are made available in light of business customers to deliver jointly agreed objectives.
Following our recruitment campaign in September nature of many of our key contracts makes it vital to our 2009, at the date of this report we had recruited 79 graduates ongoing business success that we meet and exceed the for the 2010 11 programme, 71% of which are engineering.
different financial and quality KPIs that are used to measure In addition to the graduate programme, our Marine division in the success of these contracts.
Devonport and our Nuclear business also provide opportunities to engineering undergraduates with the hope that they will then apply for the graduate programme.
Management development The Babcock Academy, introduced in 2005 and run in conjunction with Strathclyde University, continues to provide an opportunity for our managers and senior executives to develop their leadership, strategic planning and commercial skills and to introduce the Babcock approach to a number of key operational areas.
During last year around 145 senior managers and executives passed through the programme.
