12 Left The ToBA confirms our long-term strategic role supporting the Royal Navys major warships and nuclear powered submarines and will deliver significant benefits for both parties.
Years of work stream visibility 15 Demonstrating the close and embedded relationships we seek to establish with our customers, the Terms of Business Agreement ToBA signed in March 2010 strengthens our position as the MoDs key maritime support partner through to 2025.
During this period, in exchange for visibility of forward work programmes, we have undertaken to ensure maximum availability and value for money for the MoD.
Babcock International Group PLC 13 Above Extension of the management contracts for HMNBs Clyde and Devonport to 2025 added around 2.5 billion to the order book.
Above Our dedicated Fuel Route Improvement Teams at seven of British Energys AGR nuclear power stations respond to emergent issues as well as identify, assess and prioritise maintenance and safety tasks to improve productivity.
14 Delivering long-term shareholder value through working in close partnership with clients across the life-cycle of their assets.
Contents Babcock International Group PLC 15 Business review Group overview 16 Financial highlights 18 Chairmans statement 19 Operational highlights 20 Objective and strategy 21 Chief Executives review 22 Operational review 24 Corporate responsibility 36 Principal risks 42 Financial review 46 Governance Directors and Company Secretary 50 Directors report 52 Statement on Corporate Governance 60 Audit and Risk Committee 65 Remuneration report 67 Group accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC 83 Group income statement 84 Group statement of comprehensive income 85 Group statement of changes in equity 85 Group balance sheet 86 Group cash flow statement 87 Notes to the Group financial statements 88 Company accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC 125 Company balance sheet 126 Notes to the Company financial statements 127 Other information Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associated undertakings 131 Shareholder information 132 Five-year financial record 133 Directors report The Directors present the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2010.
This page and pages 16 to 82, inclusive, of this Annual Report and Accounts comprise a Report of the Directors that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
In particular, Directors would be liable to the Company but not to any third party if the Directors report contains errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
Forward looking statements Certain statements in this announcement are forward looking statements.
Such statements may relate to Babcocks business, strategy and plans.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about Babcocks or its managements beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as believe, anticipate, estimates, expects, intends, aims, potential, will, would, could, considered, likely, and variations of these words and similar future or conditional expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of doing so.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions, some known and some unknown, that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond Babcocks control.
Please see pages 42-45 which set out some of these risks and uncertainties.
These risks, uncertainties or assumptions could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described herein.
Forward-looking statements contained in this announcement regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as a representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Nor are they indicative of future performance and Babcocks actual results of operations and financial condition and the development of the industry and markets in which Babcock operates may differ materially from those made in or suggested by the forward-looking statements.
You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this announcement because such statements relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Forward-looking statements reflect Babcocks judgement at the date of this announcement and are not intended to give any assurance as to future results.
Except as required by law, Babcock is under no obligation to update and will not or keep current the forward-looking statements contained in this announcement or to correct any inaccuracies which may become apparent in such forward-looking statements.
16 Group overview Our six divisions deliver engineering excellence through long-term partnerships with their customers.
Throughout the business review, unless otherwise stated, revenue, operating profit, operating margin, profit before tax and earnings per share refer to results from continuing operations, before amortisation of acquired intangibles and exceptional items.
8% Operating return on revenue 8.5% Operating return on revenue 1 1.
2% Operating return on revenue Profile Profile Profile We are the UKs leading naval support We are the largest provider of facilities We have one of the largest specialist business and have a unique role management support to the Ministry of nuclear resources in the UK.
We are site supporting the Royal Navy and the Defence and training support to the Army.
managers at Dounreay, Harwell and Ministry of Defence.
Winfrith and provide outage and We deliver equipment support and maintenance support for current power base support to the RAF and technical We have a growing role in the design generation.
of future naval defence programmes and are expanding our international We also provide these services to We also operate in the decommissioning submarine support operations.
Key activities Key activities Key activities Submarines through-life support, refit, South West and East Regional Prime Contracts Outage support for operational reactors refuelling and decommissioning, base porting for MoD Site management S urface ships warship refit, member of Surface RAF Valley and Linton-on-Ouse MAC contracts Decommissioning activities Ship Support Alliance and Aircraft Carrier Alliance IOS contracts for Hawk fast jet trainers Waste management solutions Naval bases management of HMNB Devonport 30 year RSME training and training support contract Mechanical system design and engineering and HMNB Clyde Support for airport baggage handling systems Safety and risk analysis I ntegrated Technology design and technical at Heathrow, Gatwick and Schipol solutions Key customers Key customers Sellafield Ltd Key customers MoD Defence Estates British Energy now EDF EG MoD Army AWE Aldermaston fide&S Equipment Support RAF Magnox Electric Canadian and Australian Governments BAE Systems Dounreay Site Restoration Ltd Navantia BAA
