Governance and responsibility On the following pages we report specically on Vision responsibility, and accountability and openness.
Risk management is fully reported from page 18 of Our vision for governance and responsibility at Yell this report.
Further information on our responsibility is to provide our shareholders and other stakeholders achievements is available at www.
com with confidence that Yell is a well-managed and and in the separate Corporate Responsibility report responsible company.
The Board takes steps to engage with shareholders and to evaluate the relevant financial, social, ethical Responsibility and environmental issues that may inuence or aect Yell.
This section summarises our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR and our Governance and responsibility achievements during 2010. framework CR is embedded throughout the business in our We have established a framework which we believe dealings with suppliers, our approach to recruitment, identies all the elements of a sound approach to the contribution we make to our communities and governance and responsibility.
We use this framework to charities, our work with trade associations, and to set and monitor governance and responsibility our approach to customer service CR is a part of objectives, identify improvement opportunities everyones role at Yell.
We continue to ensure our and ensure that activities are aligned with business approach to CR is relevant, realistic and robust, and strategy.
Through this framework we provide assurance that it contributes to business performance.
Our CR to all our stakeholders that Yell is a well-managed, strategy concentrates on three areas: responsible company.
Minimising our eect on the environment Supporting enterprise Our framework Enhancing our employee volunteering opportunities The Yell Way Our people Roles, responsibilities and accountabilities Environment Business excellence Yell is committed to reducing its eect on the environment.
From green energy purchasing Baseline compliance Laws and regulations to carbon footprint measurement, and from the Market regulation recycling of oce waste to the sourcing of paper from sustainably managed forests, we continue Responsibility Environment to make progress in this area.
Suppliers partners Yell people Directory recycling Customers All our directories are made with very low weight paper 34-36 gsm and currently, in the UK, contain Investors an average of 60% recycled bre content.
In Spain, Communities our Pginas Amarillas directories include 45% recycled bre.
The remaining virgin bre used in the Brand integrity Reputation and brand paper production process is derived from sustainably management managed forests.
Thanks to advances in technology, Intellectual property the percentage of recycled bre used in Yellow Pages Fair selling directories has increased regularly over the years and the mix ensures that the quality of the paper Accountability Reporting and usability of the product is balanced with any and openness stakeholder dialogue eect of the directories on the environment.
Investor relations Internal communication Risk management Internal control and audit assurance 36 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance and responsibility continued We source our virgin paper from sustainably Reducing the environmental eect of our oces managed forests so that when a tree is harvested, Yell UK is moving into a new headquarters building new trees are always replanted.
at One Reading Central in the autumn of 2010: people from our four existing buildings in Slough Our campaign to increase the number of old and Reading will move into a state-of-the-art, directories being recycled began in 1993.
The space can be more exibly local authorities now provide some form of used by our people in new ways of working and recovery facility for them recycling, composting with greater communication between teams.
The easiest recycling option for The building has a BREEAM rating of Excellent householders is via a kerbside collection scheme and and is fully appointed with the most ecient 99% of local authorities currently oer this option.
A preliminary Over the last two years, Yellowbook has rolled study by the Carbon Trust in 2008 estimated out a new smaller directory across the majority Yell could save 3,500 tonnes of carbon dioxide of our delivery areas as part of our commitment emissions every year by moving into this building.
to minimising the resources used in our directories.
Yell UK has been registered to the environmental As a result of this change, we worked alongside standard ISO 14001 since 1998 and our two oces our printing partner to invest in new equipment in Madrid have been registered to ISO 14001 since to ensure we could eciently produce the smaller 2007.
We aim to roll out registration to the standard books.
This new equipment results in very little in all our Spanish oces by 2012.
Our environment waste from the production process and in the last policies for all our operations show our commitment two years we have reduced paper consumption to reducing, reusing and recycling resources.
through these new smaller directories by 29%.
The smaller directory also means we need fewer Climate change lorries to deliver them, and in the last year we Yell is in the media sector and is classied as a low have used 35% less lorry trips for delivery.
impact company with regards to climate change.
As a signatory to the Yellow Pages Association Since 1998, we have reduced our total CO operational 2 and Association of Directory Producers joint emissions in the UK by 50%.
In the last 12 months we environmental guidelines, Yellowbook is committed have reduced Group CO emissions by 5%.
We aim to 2 to best practices relating to source reduction, reduce our Group emissions by a further 5% by 2012. manufacturing and recycling.
Yellowbook also partners with GreenFiber, a manufacturer of Enterprise insulation products made from recycled materials including old directories.
Our business has been built in partnership with small and medium-sized businesses building our As part of our annual CR objectives we continue business by bringing marketing solutions to theirs.
to look at new ways to increase directory recycling We connect hundreds of thousands of small and also at innovative ways of reusing the paper businesses to their potential customers, but we can from our directories.
do more to help, guide and support them through the challenging phases of business growth.
Yellow Woods Challenge Yells agship environmental campaign, the Yellow Supporting our users and advertisers Woods Challenge, is now entering its ninth year.
The majority of our advertisers are small or The simple, fun and educational campaign is run medium-sized enterprises SMEs, employing fewer with the Woodland Trust and local authorities than ten people.
They view classied directory across the UK.
Since 2002, almost three million advertising as a highly valuable proposition that schoolchildren have taken part in the challenge, constitutes a significant part of their marketing raising more than 470,000 for the Woodland budget.
Our products not only oer a valued source Trust and recycling more than two and a half million of information, but also represent a significant old Yellow Pages directories.
In return for recycling source of sales leads for many small businesses old Yellow Pages directories, competing schools that in turn support local economies.
are taught how to look after their environment and can win cash prizes.
In 2007, we launched an educational environment campaign for primary schools in Madrid called Pginas Amarillas: Recicla con nosotros or Recycle with us which encourages schoolchildren to recycle their old directories once the new one has been delivered.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 37 Governance and responsibility continued Our sales consultants are trained to give practical Working with key suppliers advice about choosing the right Yell product, and Yellowbooks ethical guidelines for suppliers ensure during the sale we oer customers return-onbest practices in diverse aspects of the supply chain: investment gures based on third-party research fair and equal labour standards, compliance and or actual gures for online or telephone usage.
governance practices, environmental excellence, This enables our advertisers to assess the likely return and responsible products and services.
Currently, from their expenditure with us, in terms of business 76% of Yellowbooks key suppliers have committed leads, depending on their classication and location.
to adhering to the guidelines.
We have more than 6,000 sales people across In 2008, Yell Publicidad in Spain launched ethical Yell Group to service our advertisers and we aim purchasing guidelines for their suppliers.
Currently, to ensure they conduct themselves with the highest 46% of their suppliers are signed up to them, and standards of professionalism and integrity.
In the UK, they aim for 100% by 2011. we run a sales compliance campaign Winning Fairly, Yell UK has had ethical purchasing guidelines in Selling Fairly to ensure we maintain our ethical place since 2006, and now 95% of UK suppliers approach to selling.
In the US, our core value of have signed up.
Think long term, act with integrity provides the foundation for our commitment to ethical selling.
Supporting enterprise In Spain, our Ojo al Dato campaign ensures the We were selected by the Queens Award oce in information collected from our advertisers is correct.
Having twice Each year our sales people are asked to rearm won a Queens Award for Sustainable Development their commitment to our high ethical standards.
in 2002 and 2007, we were able to encourage local Our Code of Ethics at www.
com ethics, businesses to apply for the Queens Awards for supported by our employee Whistleblowing service, Enterprise 2009. has been in place for a number of years.
This allows With a sales force that is in daily contact with small our people to report, in a secure and condential businesses, we believe we know about selling, and manner, any cases of unethical behaviour which the challenges small businesses face.
Many of our are investigated and reported back to our Audit sales force already mentor small businesses and we Committee annually.
wanted to bring that resource to a wider audience.
In 2010, Yellowbook completed the roll-out of In the UK, for the last two years we have teamed their Sales Force Automation.
The programme has up with horsesmouth.
co. uk to sponsor The Small equipped our sales people with the best software Business Mentor of the Year Award, an initiative in order to simplify the tasks required in the sales aimed at celebrating and recognising mentors process and make their time with their customers who have contributed towards the success of small more productive.
For the eighth consecutive year, businesses.
co. uk is an online social Selling Power Magazine ranked Yellowbook among mentoring network launched in January 2008. the 50 Best Companies to Sell for.
Each year, the Its an innovative way for people to network magazine identies companies with the most to and provide business mentoring, while retaining oer sales people.
their anonymity if desired, and our people are encouraged to contribute.
The site is made up of We work closely with trade associations in the UK three areas work, life and learning.
Each of these to support responsible business practice in areas areas promotes knowledge sharing and advice.
such as building, home improvements and health care.
We also vet the use of trade association logos, particularly in the home improvement sector, Employee volunteering to minimise misuse.
To support trade association We all benefit in some way from being part of our members we also sponsor trade association local community.
By making a positive, personal activities such as conferences, exhibitions and contribution we can strengthen the bond, reinforce awards for more than 40 of the UKs leading our sense of community spirit and make a dierence associations.
We have also specically supported for others less fortunate than ourselves.
apprentice awards within several of these associations to encourage new business growth.
Yell is committed to supporting and encouraging people who get involved in fundraising for local causes.
This year, Yell Group contributed more than 675,000 to the communities in which it operates through cash, time and in-kind support.
38 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance and responsibility continued Supporting national charities Yell Adworks in India has supported the Devnar Since 2008, we have match funded any money Blind School, as well as Mercy Home.
Devnar Blind raised for Marie Curie Cancer Care by our people, School, which supports over 300 visually challenged which supports our Community Champions network children, provides value-based education aimed to and gives our people the opportunity to raise equip the children with the skills that will ultimately money in any way they want.
allow them to lead productive lives in mainstream community.
Mercy Home is independently run and We continue to support the Woodland Trust through takes care of 40 disadvantaged children.
the Yellow Woods Challenge and increasingly through the fundraising eorts of Yell UK people.
The CR activities completed by Yell Group in 2010 are detailed in our CR report which can be found Yellowbook and Yell Adworks in the US continue to at www.
support United Way, a national charity which aims to improve peoples lives by supporting volunteers involved in health and education.
A US-wide Accountability and openness campaign organised by a committee of Yellowbook people raised more than $267,000.
Statement of application of principles Following the devastating earthquake in Haiti in of the Combined Code January 2010, our people in Yell Publicidad donated We have applied the principles set out in the 2008 9,926 to The Red Cross for the relief eorts and Combined Code during the period 1 April 2009 to Yell Publicidad matched this amount.
In addition, 31 March 2010 and save as where detailed below we donated advertising space to The Red Cross complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code and UNICEF on www.
The 2008 Combined Code can be found at www.
Local initiatives Yell UK works with local Education Business Partnerships to mentor pupils from local schools, The Board share skills and discuss any issues or concerns Our Board comprises of two executive directors and they have about further education or being in the seven non-executive directors.
Six out of the seven workplace.
Our people are involved in a number non-executive directors are considered independent of events to support the Central Berkshire Education by the Company.
Our Chairman, Bob Wigley, was Business Partnership including university interview independent upon his appointment eective from days, leadership skills events and enterprise days.
Last year, Yell Publicidad people donated 10,000 Our executive directors are John Condron Chief to Aldeas Infantiles SOS Espana to assist them Executive Ocer and John Davis Chief Financial with projects supporting human development.
Both directors have recently announced The charity oers care for children who have lost they are leaving Yell, and replacements are their parents or who have been estranged from being actively sought by the Board, led by the their families.
As part of the Builders of the Future Nomination Committee.
campaign, Yell Publicidad supports a childrens village in Mar fide Plata in Argentina.
The village Lord Powell of Bayswater was the Senior Independent consists of ten family houses, a training centre, Director until the announcement of his resignation a play area, and sports centre and a kindergarten from the Board on 7 May 2009.
Richard Hooper which cares for 100 children from the village and succeeded Lord Powell as Senior Independent surrounding areas.
Mr Hooper and all non-executive directors are available to shareholders who wish to raise issues.
Yellowbook people from our King of Prussia oce took part in three Days of Caring events in the Our policy is that all directors stand for re-election Philadelphia area last year, distributing food to or, in the case of newly appointed directors, shelters, emergency kitchens and neighbourhood election each year.
centres as part of the areas largest hunger relief Approval of the appointment of Bob Wigley as a programme Philabundance.
non-executive director eective from 24 July 2009, Last year, Yell Adworks in the UK decided to support and Toby Coppel as an independent non-executive Cancer Research for the year.
In total, more than director, eective from 12 October 2009, will be 1,000 was raised for Cancer Research.
Yell Adworks sought at Yells Annual General Meeting due to people in the US have donated more than $18,300 be held on 29 July 2010. to 19 dierent non-profit organisations as a result of various fund raising events.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 39 Governance and responsibility continued John Condron executive director is a full-time Our directors have access to the services of our director of companies within the Yell Group and Company Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, the has no other commitments to external companies removal of whom is a matter reserved for the and, consequently, does not receive any other fees.
Howard Rubenstein acts John Davis is a non-executive director of Informa plc, as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
and his fees from Informa are set out in the Our Company Secretary works with our Chairman Remuneration Report.
Details of our executive to ensure that all our directors receive sucient directors service contracts and our non-executive information, on a timely basis, to enable the directors letters of appointment can also be found Board to run eciently.
A secure website has been in the Remuneration Report on pages 49 and 50. established as an exclusive channel for our directors Letters of appointment now set out xed time to share information, receive training material commitments of at least one day per month and and Board papers, and generally enhance the all our directors are expected to demonstrate administration of Board business.
Analysts and their commitment to the work of the Board on brokers briengs and opinions are also provided an ongoing basis.
In the case of our Chairman, to all directors through the website.
his contracted time commitment is at least 25 days per year.
During the financial year, training and presentations on renancing, and directors duties in relation to In Spring 2010, our Board conducted a formal the responsibilities for publishing our equity raising evaluation of its overall eectiveness, facilitated by prospectus was provided to the directors.
At various an external consulting rm.
The evaluation focused Board meetings throughout the year, our directors on the collective performance of our Board and received presentations by our UK, US, Spanish Board Committees as well as on the performance of and Latin American senior management teams, individual directors, our Chairman and our Company highlighting key developments in their respective Secretary.
The external rm held one-to-one businesses and markets.
discussions with each director, our Chairman and our Company Secretary.
Part of the process included Our directors are entitled to take independent a meeting of the non-executives without the professional advice, at Yells expense, about fullling Chairman present, to discuss his performance.
Yell has also arranged appropriate The outputs of the review were presented at the Directors and Ocers insurance cover in respect next Board meeting and have been incorporated of legal action against the directors.
into the Board plans for the coming year.
The Our Board is scheduled to meet at least six times Chairman confirms, following the evaluation, that in any calendar year: January February, March April, all directors standing for election or re-election, May, July, September and November.
During the continue to be eective and committed to their role.
reporting period, our Board met nine times and Biographies of all our directors seeking election or the non-executive directors met once without the re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting executive directors present.
Audit Committee Operation of the Board The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coghlan, Our Board has overall responsibility for leading and who we consider to have recent and relevant controlling Yell and is accountable to shareholders financial experience.
The other members during for financial and operational performance.
the year were Lord Powell of Bayswater until his Our Board is also responsible for the open and resignation eective 24 July 2009, Richard Hooper transparent communication of information relevant and Joachim Eberhardt.
The Committee consists to this performance.
entirely of independent non-executive directors.
Our external and internal auditors attend all meetings.
Our Board recognises the division in responsibility The Audit Committee periodically meets with both between our Chairman who ensures the eective internal and external auditors in private session.
working of the Board and our Chief Executive Ocer who runs our Company.
Our Board has The Committee assists the Board in fullling its duties agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its regarding the reporting of financial and non-financial decision which includes the approval of financial information to shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, statements, major acquisitions, Group strategy, and the Audit Committee examines the eectiveness of governance policies.
The written schedule also sets the Groups internal controls and risk management out the extent of the various delegated authorities by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity granted by our Board to our committees and our at each Committee meeting.
Risk management senior management team.
processes are given on pages 18 to 29.
40 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance and responsibility continued The following table shows the individual attendance by our directors at the Board and Committee meetings, during the reporting period ended 31 March 2010.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Bob Wigley 6 6 John Condron 9 1 John Davis 9 Tim Bunting 81 53 John Coghlan 9 4 1 Toby Coppel 3 Joachim Eberhardt 9 3 1 8 Carlos Espinosa 81 Richard Hooper 814 1 Lord Powell of Bayswater 212 Bob Scott 3 2 Committees The following Committees have been established under the overall direction of our Board.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are published on our website at www.
The chairmanship, membership and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed on an annual basis.
The following table shows the chairman and members of each Committee.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Name Status Committee Committee Committee Bob Wigley Chairman, Member Chairman non-executive director appointed 22 9 09 John Condron CEO, executive director Member John Davis CFO, executive director Tim Bunting Independent, Member non-executive director John Coghlan Independent, Chairman Member non-executive director Toby Coppel Independent, Member non-executive director appointed 16 3 10 Joachim Eberhardt Independent, Member Chairman non-executive director Carlos Espinosa Independent, fide los Monteros non-executive director Richard Hooper Senior Independent, Member Member non-executive director Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 41 Governance and responsibility continued The Committee agrees the scope of the internal In the Boards view, the information it received audit plan and reviews it following the risk was sucient to enable it to review the eectiveness assessment activity.
It reviews the risks and of the Companys system of internal control associated controls of the consolidation process in accordance with the Internal Control Revised of the annual and interim financial statements Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code and the nature and scope of the external audit.
The Board is satisfied that, The key controls over consolidation include internal where significant failings or weaknesses in internal audit checks over Group processes and review controls were identied during the year, appropriate of the financial statements by management and remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
The Committee met four times during the The Committee also reviews the independence and reporting period.
objectivity of our external auditors.
Our auditors are also required to confirm their independence Remuneration Committee at least annually.
The Audit Committee has considered the quality of service received from The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Joachim  LLP PwC during the Eberhardt.
The other members of the Committee past year, the proposed fee structure and audit were Tim Bunting, Toby Coppel upon his appointment engagement terms for FY11, and has recommended to the Committee in March 2010, Bob Scott until his to the Board that the reappointment of PwC as resignation in July 2009 and Bob Wigley upon his external auditors be proposed to shareholders appointment to the Committee in September 2009. at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
For a period leading up to Toby Coppels appointment, the Committees composition did not comply with Our policy for the provision of non-audit services provision B.
2.1 of the Combined Code, as there were by our auditors is also kept under review by the only two independent non-executive directors on the Committee.
The policy defines the nature of Committee.
non-audit work which may be undertaken and establishes a financial limit up to 5 million per Following our 2010 Annual General Meeting, Joachim annum on this work.
Included in this 5 million, Eberhardt will step down from the Committee.
is a pre-approved financial limit of 1.5 million Tim Bunting will become Chairman of the Committee, for routine tax compliance and advisory services and a third independent non-executive director will that may be provided by the external auditors.
All non-audit projects above a financial limit of The Committee has responsibility for making 250,000 must be approved by the Committee recommendations to our Board on the policy for prior to the project commencing.
Regular updates remuneration of executive directors and on the are prepared for the Committee on the nature, process for review of their performance.
It also has cumulative costs and extent of non-audit services responsibility for determining specic remuneration provided by our auditors.
packages for each of our directors, including The Committee also has oversight of the investigation pension rights, any compensation payments and of any serious issues raised through the Yell the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
No director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service The Board has an established process by which or remuneration.
the eectiveness of the system of internal control is reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the During the reporting period, an executive director Combined Code, and the main features of those remuneration review took place, in consultation with controls are set out in the Principal Risks section our major shareholders, the ABI and NAPF.
Further starting at page 18. details of the remuneration review can be found in our remuneration report commencing on page 45.
In May, the Audit Committee considered a report on the Groups significant risks along with a full-year During the year, the Committee received advice from report from the Internal Audit team as part of the our Chief Executive Ocer, our Company Secretary Boards annual review of the system of internal and our Head of Human Resources.
The Committee control and risk management systems.
Both reports also received advice from Deloitte LLP in respect described the significant risks identied across the of remuneration policy.
Tax and risk management Group within the categories of strategic, operational services were also provided by Deloitte LLP during including social and environmental risk, debt and the year.
renancing, financial reporting and compliance, The Committee met eight times during the and the control environment for each category.
42 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Governance and responsibility continued Nomination Committee Relations with shareholders Our Nomination Committee was chaired by Yell is committed to ongoing communication with Bob Scott until July 2009 and its other members its shareholders and other stakeholders.
This was are John Coghlan, John Condron and Richard achieved through: Hooper.
Mr Hooper chaired the Committee on Regular dialogue and presentations throughout an interim basis until September 2009, when the year to our institutional investors.
These Bob Wigley was appointed as Chairman of the presentations were subsequently made available Committee.
Mr. Hooper also chaired the Committee on our website, www.
com during the recruitment of Bob Wigley.
The composition Yells Investor day, held on 20 May 2010 in London, of this Committee will be reviewed in the coming attended by our Chairman, Chief Executive Ocer, year, to ensure compliance with provision A.
4.1 of Chief Financial Ocer, Senior Independent Director the Combined Code, as currently independent nonand senior management from all our operations.
executive directors compose half of the Committee Our Chief Executive Ocer and Chief Financial membership, rather than a majority.
Ocer, senior management, Company Secretarys The Committee has responsibility for considering oce, investor relations and CR manager engaging the size, structure and composition of the Board, with stakeholders on wider issues relating to the retirement and or appointment of directors the Group.
and ensuring that the Board has the right blend The issuing of quarterly, half year and full year of skills and experience.
The Committee also reviews results releases.
the extent of our directors commitments outside Timely announcements made through the London Yell, to ensure that those commitments are not Stock Exchange regulatory news service, where detrimental to Yell or the eciency of the Board.
During the year, the Committee considered and Our Annual General Meeting, which gives all recommended the appointment to the Board our shareholders the opportunity to hear first of Bob Wigley, Carlos Espinosa fide los Monteros hand from our Board of Directors and to raise and Toby Coppel.
The Committee considered that questions.
At our 2009 Annual General Meeting, each of the new appointees would add significant our directors including the Chairmen of each value to the Board.
Committee were present, and informally met with Neither an external search agency nor open our shareholders after the meeting.
All proposed advertising Combined Code reference A.
4.6 resolutions are put to a poll vote.
Shareholders were considered necessary in connection with the who might not be able to attend the meeting are recruitment of Carlos Espinosa and Bob Wigley, encouraged to vote by proxy.
The Annual General due to the specic requirements of their roles and Meeting voting results were published through their obvious abilities to meet those requirements.
the London Stock Exchange and on our website An external search agency was used in connection immediately after the meeting.
with the recruitment of Toby Coppel.
Sections dedicated to our shareholders on the Companys corporate website, The Committee is now leading the search for a new www.
com Chief Executive Ocer and a Chief Financial Ocer and has retained the services of external search rms in this regard.
Share capital The Committee met once formally during the year.
Information about the Companys share capital is given in the Directors Report commencing on page 30 and in note 23 to the financial statements.
Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010 43 Governance and responsibility continued Description of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Prepare the financial statements on a going Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume and the financial statements in accordance with that the Company will continue in business.
Company law The directors are responsible for keeping adequate requires the directors to prepare financial accounting records that are sucient to show and statements for each financial year.
Under that law explain the Companys transactions and disclose the directors have elected to prepare the Group and with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial parent company financial statements in accordance position of the Company and the Group and enable with International Financial Reporting Standards them to ensure that the financial statements and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the directors Remuneration Report comply with company law the directors must not approve the the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
they give a true and fair view of the state of aairs They are also responsible for safeguarding the of the Group and the Company and of the profit or assets of the Company and the Group and hence loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and financial statements, the directors are required to: detection of fraud and other irregularities Select suitable accounting policies and then apply The directors are responsible for the maintenance them consistently.
and integrity of the Groups website and financial Make judgements and accounting estimates that statements Legislation in the United Kingdom are reasonable and prudent.
governing the preparation and dissemination State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the of financial statements may dier from legislation European Union have been followed, subject to in other jurisdictions.
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Responsibility statement Each of the directors, whose names and functions The directors are responsible for the maintenance and are set out in the Governance and Responsibility integrity of the Group website, www.
section on pages 31 and 41 confirm that, to the best Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and of each persons knowledge and belief: dissemination of financial statements may dier from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true Signed 8 June 2010 on behalf of the Board by: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company.
The directors report contained in the annual report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties John Davis that they face.
Director 44 Yell Group plc Annual Report 2010
