Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance Dear Shareholders, A year in which we have Change is inevitable and desirable, and this is as applicable to companies as it is to most things in life.
Managing change as continued to evaluate part of an ongoing process of improvement is a fundamental part of good governance: driven as it is by the demands of the business environment and wider social and political influences.
our governance Boards need to look forward and put their companies in the best position possible, not just reacting to change but managing it for arrangements against the benefit of our various stakeholders.
Last year, I mentioned the reports produced by Sir David Walker and the Financial Reporting Council reviewing corporate governance in the UK, our own experiences and the changes that they recommended.
In 2010, a number ofimportant changes were made to the UKs Corporate and changes in best Governance Code.
We welcome the new Code as a statement of the evolving nature of good corporate governance practice and one that must continue to change if we are to learn lessons from practice.
the past and go on to build the successful, robust commercial enterprises that are fundamental to our economic and social Dick Olver well being.
Chairman The Board has reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code during the year, and has taken action to ensure that what we do reflects fully its principles and that we comply with its provisions.
As I have said before in these reports, the Code principles, embodying as they do the essence of good governance practice, are the most important part of the Code.
Inthe next few pages, we seek to explain how they have been applied by the BAESystems Board.
I will begin by highlighting a number of important areas that have been the subject of further development during the year.
Board membership Too often we talk of boards in the abstract and overlook the obvious point that a board is essentially a group of individuals.
The quality of those individuals largely determines the quality ofthe board, so consequently, through the Nominations Committee, we pay a good deal of attention to the composition of the Board and succession planning.
We look at composition from a number of different angles, including: Knowledge and experience Diversity Key skills Executive non-executive mix BAE Systems Board experience We seek to achieve the right balance across these different dimensions.
However, I believe that to be effective a board needs a core of business people who have deep knowledge and experience in running companies.
In particular, as BAE Systems business is characterised primarily by its complex long-term contracting nature, we seek to retain core non-executive knowledge and competence gained in similar industries.
In addition, we look for individuals with board level experience withinternational and global companies.
Diversity BAE Systems places particular emphasis on diversity and inclusion, and this is reflected in the objectives that the Board has set for management and is one of the factors influencing annual executive reward.
This is an area in which the Board needs to show leadership and gender diversity is a factor we consider when appointing new directors.
With the assistance of our recruitment consultants, we have taken steps to ensure that there are no obstacles to the Nominations Committee having visibility of suitable candidates for possible appointment to the 78 www.
com Board, regardless of gender.
Companies such as BAE Systems Succession planning and directors induction have to accept that performance to date in achieving a more Returning to the opening theme, change is inevitable but it is equitable representation for women at the highest levels has also risky.
Good succession planning recognises that you can been poor and that this is something we have to address.
When mitigate succession risk through well informed and timely women make up half of the population, those companies that decisions being made by experienced and knowledgeable fail to have diverse leaders at the highest levels risk putting people.
The table below details the non-executive members of themselves at a competitive disadvantage.
the Board and their terms of office.
The Nominations Committee regularly reviews this information to help plan the membership Developing the quality of the senior management pipe-line of the Board.
This includes having people on the Boards which ultimately leads to the Board is an area that chairmen committees with the right skills and experience.
For example, and boards do get involved in.
As part of this activity, the Board in2009, the committee identified a need for an individual with and our Nominations and Corporate Responsibility committees appropriate skills and financial experience to sit on our Audit have been monitoring how we manage diversity and inclusion Committee, and provide expertise and long-term cover for across the Group, and it is good to see progress being made, Michael Hartnall, who has done an excellent job in chairing the particularly in developing the behaviours and culture that in the committee since 2003.
I am pleased that we were able to long term will be the main determinants of success in this area.
appoint Nick Rose to the Board in February 2010, and he brings Quotas and tokenism could superficially solve the diversity the experience and skills gained in his role as Chief Financial issue at least at board level.
However, that would not be good Officer of Diageo plc to our Audit Committee, and also to our for companies and equally would not be good for women.
Also, when we recruited Paul Ibelieve that the best way forward is to set the right behavioural Anderson in October 2009 we recognised he had the expectations at the very top of the company and encourage background and qualities required for a future chairman of the management to develop appropriate solutions to meet that Corporate Responsibility Committee, and he was appointed to challenge.
In terms of Board governance, the Corporate that role in September last year.
Responsibility Committee undertakes a specific role in monitoring progress against our diversity and inclusion With regards to the executive directors on the Board, the most objectives as it does with other non-financial performance significant event during the year was the search for the right measures, and makes recommendations to the Remuneration candidate to succeed George Rose as Group Finance Director.
Committee for reward purposes based on actual achievement.
This was undertaken by the Nominations Committee and for this purpose it co-opted an additional independent non-executive, As chairman of both the Board and the Nominations Committee, Nick Rose.
The search process is detailed in the Nominations I recognise that I have particular responsibilities for leading the Committee report on page 94. work in developing the Board, and its composition is a very important element of board effectiveness.
Reflecting on the Too much change around the board table can be a risk in itself.
gender diversity issue, progress has been made both within No matter how experienced and knowledgeable an incoming the executive and non-executive areas.
Linda Hudson, one of non-executive director is it will always take time for that our three executive directors, is the President and Chief individual to develop a detailed understanding of the Company.
Executive Officer of our US-managed businesses, which account For this reason a properly tailored induction programme is very for more than half of our sales.
Together with strong operational important.
Done well, it should reduce the time taken for a new management experience, she brings a deep understanding of member of the Board to become fully effective.
Over the last few the US defence market.
I am also pleased that in 2010 Harriet years, we have worked at improving the induction programme Green joined the Board as a non-executive director.
She is Chief we offer new directors, combining a mixture of subject specific Executive Officer of a UK-listed international electronics one-to-one meetings with senior management covering matters distribution company, and brings international and operational such as core control processes and investor relations, through experience to the Board.
Progress, but more to do, particularly in to site visits to various Company locations around the world.
respect of long-term executive development work from which Forinformation, an example of a typical induction programme many of our future executive directors will be found, and is shown on page 84.
Maintaining the right level of experience importantly, will provide candidates for non-executive director and company knowledge within a board, whilst at the same time positions in other companies.
introducing new people who bring a new perspective and a fresh pair of eyes, is a necessary but difficult balance to maintain.
We recognise it as such and remain diligent in trying to get the balance right.
BOARD SUCCESSION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Director Date of appointment 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 Ravi Uppal 02.04.2008 Carl Symon 11.06.2008 Paul Anderson 08.10.2009 Nick Rose 08.02.2010 Harriet Green 01.11.2010 Third term Second term First term BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 79 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued Roles and responsibilities In the accounting policy notes on page 134 you will find the The revisions to the Combined Code made in 2010 provided following words: more definition to the roles of both the Chairman and the Senior No profit is recognised on contracts until the outcome of the Independent Director.
As a result, the Board has amended the contract can be reliably estimated.
Profit is calculated by requirements of the roles as detailed in our Board Charter see reference to reliable estimates of contract revenue and forecast page 83.
The changes to the Senior Independent Directors role costs after making suitable allowances for technical and other and responsibilities reflect the need for one of the non-executive risks related to performance milestones yet to be achieved.
Board members to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and, in the normal course of events, facilitate an annual review For us, the management of risk on our programmes is a core of the Chairmans performance.
If events do not run such a management discipline and, therefore, management reward for normal course, he will also act as an intermediary for the other profit performance is inextricably linked to managing risk, with directors if they have specific concerns regarding the Chairman reward and profit not recognised until outcomes can be reliably and how the Board is being run.
Having a robust senior director estimated.
on the Board who is both the natural person to turn to when I Board performance evaluation need to discuss Board matters, and is open and frank in giving One of the other key changes to the Combined Code in 2010 feedback on my performance, is invaluable to me as Chairman, was the change to the evaluation section, with the addition of a and an important part of board governance.
requirement that, at least every three years, the annual board The relationship between a chairman and the chief executive is evaluation should be externally facilitated.
During my time probably the key personal dynamic within a board.
Again it is a as Chairman, we have undertaken an externally facilitated matter of balance, this time between being supportive of a chief performance evaluation exercise annually, covering the executive in delivering the agreed strategy and the need to have performance of the Board, its committees and individual the right level of challenge.
Within BAE Systems, it is for others directors including myself.
This is now a core process that we to say whether I get this balance right, and here the Boards have refined over the past six years and one that I believe adds annual performance evaluation provides all directors with the real value to the work of the Board.
We have used the same opportunity to speak to our external facilitator about my facilitator throughout this period, which has helped to build trust performance we specifically ask directors for their views on the in the process and an appreciation of its value in improving the chairman chief executive relationship and for any issues to be effectiveness of the Board.
fed back to me via the Senior Independent Director.
Likewise, For us, the use of an external facilitator has been a positive one.
the Chief Executive is subject to the same evaluation process, I certainly dont see the exercise as an audit or inspection that receiving formal feedback once a year from the Board but having is undertaken by an outsider with the aim of telling us what we the opportunity to engage with members of the Board, both are doing wrong.
Rather, it is more about providing a process formally and informally, throughout the year.
through which directors can speak candidly at length to our Managing risk facilitator and in doing so analyse our performance over the past The management of risk in major companies is an issue to year.
She then presents what she has heard, and collectively the which directors and those responsible for public policy have directors discuss this and agree any actions required to improve given a good deal of thought in recent years.
When reviewing the our effectiveness.
Feedback on the performance of the Boards changes to the Combined Code last year, the Board noted the committees is provided separately to committee chairmen so change to the Main Principle in the Risk Management and that this can be discussed with committee members, and I Internal Control section of the Code, regarding a board being meet with the facilitator to discuss feedback on individual responsible for determining the nature and extent of the performance before holding one-to-one meetings with directors.
significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic Similarly, the Senior Independent Director, following discussions objectives.
The Board has agreed that this should be an integral with the facilitator and the other non-executive directors, part of the process we use to develop and agree strategy, which provides me with feedback on my performance.
is based on strategy review sessions, separate from our formal For the last few years we have provided details of the annual board meetings.
objectives the Board has set following the evaluation process The Risk Management and Internal Control principle also and information on how we think we did in addressing the prior requires that boards maintain sound risk management and years objectives.
We report on the evaluation we have just internal control systems.
There has been some debate completed opposite.
regardingthe need for alllisted company boards to have risk Shareholder engagement committees.
Whilst the detailed monitoring of the quality of As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that all directors are ourrisk management and internal control systems forms part aware of any issues and concerns that major shareholders may ofthe regular work undertaken by the Audit and Corporate have.
The Company has a comprehensive investor relations Responsibility committees, importantly the Board as a whole programme, through which the Chief Executive and Group isultimately responsible for the management of risk.
We ensure Finance Director engage regularly with our larger shareholders that risk is a regular agenda item for the Board and this provides on a one-to-one basis.
The Board receives reports on these all directors with the opportunity to evaluate the quality of our meetings covering the general nature of matters communicated risk management processes, to challenge the quality of the and discussed.
However, it is important that the Board has a judgements made on risk and the quality of risk mitigation number of channels providing access to shareholder views.
These additional channels include an annual survey that our In addition to the specific inclusion of risk management within investor relations consultants undertake of the views of our the UK Corporate Governance Codes principles, provisions largest shareholders, and which are reported directly to the concerning remuneration have also been amended to require Board.
Also, I write to major shareholders each year updating that remuneration incentives are compatible with risk policies them on matters concerning the Company and inviting them and systems.
In relation to this, it should be noted that within to meet with me if they wish to discuss any particular matter.
BAE Systems, risk management is embedded into the The Chairman of our Remuneration Committee undertakes a recognition of profit on long-term contracts.
similar exercise on the subject of remuneration policy.
com Board Performance 2010 oBjectives and achievements 2010 objectives 2010 summary of achievements Maintain focus on developing the Through a number of different forums the Board undertook a wide-ranging review of Companys strategy and progress in Group strategy in 2010.
At the strategy review sessions in June and November, the achieving the Strategic Actions agreed Board reviewed progress against the Strategic Actions agreed in 2009, and at the by the Board in 2009. end of 2010, updated the Group Strategic Framework see page 14 to recognise progress in achieving prior year actions.
The Board and the Corporate During 2010, performance against the responsible business conduct objectives was Responsibility Committee to continue integrated into the Companys regular management reporting requirements, and tomonitor the development of a consequently was reported at all scheduled Board meetings.
TotalPerformance culture, including At regular meetings held throughout the year, the Corporate Responsibility implementation of the Woolf Committee monitored performance against the CR-related objectives set for the Committee recommendations.
development of a Total Performance culture.
In addition, the Committee agreed the approach including external assessments that will be used to determine progress in meeting the Companys three-year commitment to addressing the 23 recommendations made bythe Woolf Committee see page 48.
Focus on monitoring operational Operational performance targets were integrated into the 2010 Integrated Business performance, including cost and Plan IBP.
Performance against this plan was monitored by the Board throughout efficiency metrics.
In particular, aspart of the development of the 2010 IBP, the Board reviewed the efficient management of the Groups cost base, and the contribution that such activity is expected to make over the five-year planning period.
Continue to monitor the development The Board reviewed with senior operational managers progress in developing our of the competencies and culture home markets.
This has been reviewed both in terms of performance in individual required to support the growth of our markets and also in terms of the long-term management resource required to home markets.
The Chairman to facilitate continuing To assist in developing an understanding of the Companys businesses, the Board development for the non-executive visited sites in the US and UK during the year.
For example, it took the opportunity directors, including their understanding whilst visiting part of our US ship repair business to gain a deeper understanding and familiarity with the Companys of the development and dynamics of the US support services market.
businesses and core processes Facilitated by the Chairman, directors participated in a Responsible Business andmarkets.
Conduct Awareness Training session, utilising the materials used across the Group to discuss responsible business behaviour and to focus on the importance of ethical conduct to the Company.
Board Performance 2011 oBjectives Strategy Develop further the process by which the Board engages in the development of strategy.
Succession planning and Prioritise support for new Board members and long-term succession planning for implementation key executive roles.
Operational performance monitoring Develop the programme of Deep Dives to complement and validate KPIs and deepen directors understanding of the Groups operations and performance.
Risk and risk management Monitor the development of crisis management planning and the role of the Board in such plans.
Establish future milestones after completion of the Woolf Report three-year implementation review.
Stewardship and UK Corporate Engage with shareholders as they implement the Stewardship Code and find ways Governance codes to expose non-executive directors more directly to shareholders views.
Brand Think about Brand in the context of the evolving nature of the business.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 81 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued I believe that regular dialogue with shareholders is important to Corporate governance report good governance.
Establishing reliable lines of communication even when there are no particular issues of concern for Applying the principles of the UKs Corporate Governance Code shareholders is another of the valuable safety valves that The following report details how the Board has applied the weneed to firmly establish as part of our governance processes.
principles in the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code Obviously, this requires engagement on the part of the investor the Code, as required by the UK Listing Rules.
In June 2010, community and I welcome the Stewardship Code which was a revised code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, was launched last year in the UK with the aim of enhancing, the published.
Whilst reporting against the additional and revised quality of engagement between institutional investors and principles contained within this revised code is not required for companies to help improve long-term returns to shareholders regulatory purposes until next year, the Board accepts that it and the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
represents an authoritative statement of best practice, and as such it has reviewed its practices relative to it.
Consequently, During 2011, we will be looking to continue to improve the the following report includes information onthe application of quality of our engagement with shareholders and explore with the additions and revisions to the Code.
investors the practical means by which we can give effect to therequirements of the Stewardship Code and UK Corporate Leadership Governance Code.
Principles An effective board collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company A clear division of Stewardship is a word that sits equally comfortably with the responsibilities at the head of the company between the directors of a company as it does with shareholders maybe running of the board and the executive No one individual even more so for directors as the duty is more immediate and all should have unfettered powers of decision The chairman is embracing in its scope.
Therefore, we naturally support the aims responsible for the leadership of the board and ensuring its of this new code and look forward to developing its application.
effectiveness on all aspects of its role Non-executive At the centre of a companys engagement with its shareholders directors should constructively challenge and help develop is the Annual General Meeting AGM, and we should not lose proposals on strategy.
sight of the importance of this meeting as it provides a forum for The Companys governance structure is based on the leadership engagement with all shareholders.
BAE Systems has thousands principles in the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
The core of shareholders, most of whom do not wish or are unable to activities of the Board and its committees are documented and attend the actual meeting.
However, all shareholders have the planned on an annual basis, and this forms the basic structure opportunity to ensure that their shares are voted on.
To help within which the Board operates.
The Board has adopted a facilitate this we provide the following: document, the Board Charter, in which there is a statement of Electronic and postal voting shareholders can vote on all the governance principles that reflect the principles contained in the resolutions either electronically via our website or by post.
Code, and cover the following: Questions & Answers all shareholders have the opportunity Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: to submit questions by e-mail or post and we address the Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and issues that arise most frequently in these questions in also evaluating its own performance: answers provided on our website.
Standards and values setting standards and values to guide Polls all the resolutions detailed in the Notice of Meeting the affairs of the Group: arevoted on by way of a poll.
This ensures that all votes are counted on the basis of one vote for every share held, as Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is against voting on a show of hands, which results in only in place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate attendees at the meeting deciding on the resolutions.
information on the performance of the Group and the proper delegation of authority: and Results we publish the results of the voting on all resolutions on our website.
People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the necessary skills and experience, and that appointments to Those who are able to attend our AGM have the opportunity to the Board are managed effectively.
ask questions and hear the views of other shareholders before deciding how to cast their votes.
One of the main changes to the The Board Charter also details the separate and distinct roles provisions in the Combined Code is the change to require that ofthe Chairman and the Chief Executive, and also those of the all directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary.
These are Consequently, all members of the BAE Systems Board shall be detailed opposite, and have been reviewed and amended in light standing for re-election this year and in future years.
of changes made to the Code in 2010.
I look forward to meeting Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the success of those shareholders who are able to attend, and answering any the Company, given the size and complexity of its operations, questions they may have on these governance reports and other all but the most important matters are managed on a delegated matters covered by the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
basis by the Chief Executive and the executives working for him.
The Board appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his performance in leading the Company, and providing operational and performance management in delivering the agreed strategy.
Specifically, he is responsible for developing, for the Boards approval, appropriate values and standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company and also making recommendations on appropriate delegated responsibilities.
com roles and resPonsiBilities The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions for the The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership, and the effective working of the Board and is specifically responsible for operational and performance management of the Company the following: within the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Chairing Board meetings and setting the agenda for such The Chief Executive is specifically responsible for the following meetings, taking full account of the issues and concerns of in respect of his her relationship with the Board: all directors and encouraging their active engagement in Developing a business strategy for the Company to be Board discussion.
approved by the Board on an annual basis.
Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, Producing business plans for the Company to be approved including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance bythe Board on an annual basis.
Overseeing the management of the executive resource and Promoting the requirement that all Board members are succession planning processes, and presenting annually the exemplars of the Companys values, principles and output from these to the Board and Nominations Committee.
Ensuring that effective business and financial controls, Through the Nominations Committee, ensuring that the and risk management processes are in place across the Board comprises individuals with an appropriate mixture of Company, and that all relevant laws and regulations are skills, experience and knowledge.
Ensuring that the Company maintains effective Making recommendations to the Board on the appropriate communication with shareholders, and that their views and delegation of authority within the Group.
any concerns are understood by the Board.
Keeping the Board informed regularly as to the performance Working with the Chief Executive to ensure that the Board of the Company and bringing promptly to the Boards receives accurate and timely information on the performance attention all matters that materially affect, or are capable of the Company.
ofmaterially affecting, the performance of the Company Representing the Company at the highest level and, in andthe achievement of its strategy.
conjunction with the Chief Executive, developing strategic Developing for the Boards approval appropriate values and relationships with major customers and political leaders standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company.
Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Leading the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
Promoting the requirement that all Senior Leaders are exemplars of the Companys values, principles and Establishing an effective working relationship with the Chief standards.
Executive, providing support and advice whilst respecting executive responsibility.
Owning the Companys commitment to all aspects of corporate responsibility.
Ensuring that a well constructed induction programme isprovided for new directors, that all directors have the opportunity to develop their understanding of the Companyand that they are kept informed of matters affectingthe Company.
The role of the Senior Independent Director The role of the Company Secretary The Senior Independent Director is responsible for The Company Secretary is specifically responsible for the following: the following: Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which Under the direction of the Chairman, ensuring good contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief information flows within the Board and its committees, and Executive or other executive directors has failed to resolve between senior management and non-executive directors, orfor which such contact is inappropriate.
aswell as facilitating induction activities for directors and assisting with their development as required.
Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as anintermediary for the other directors when necessary.
Advising the Board through the Chairman on all governancematters.
Chairing the Nominations Committee when it is considering the Chairmans succession.
Providing feedback on the Chairmans performance as derived from the evaluation exercise undertaken by the Board.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 83 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued The Operational Framework is the output from this process.
Effectiveness It is a document that has evolved over time, subject to a formal Principles Board and committees having an appropriate six-monthly review process that culminates in the Boards review balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge and approval.
In approving it the Board has agreed the following: of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively A formal, Performance requirements and values i. e. Total Performance rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of and the Values underpinning it.
new directors All directors to be able to allocate sufficient Organisation structure the roles and accountabilities of the time to the company to discharge their responsibilities Board and certain senior individuals.
effectively All directors to receive induction on joining and should regularly update and refresh skills and knowledge Governance standards the Groups trading principles, The board should be supplied in a timely manner with internal controls, operational assurance framework and risk information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable management framework.
it to discharge its duties The board should undertake a Core business processes covering business planning, formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its performance, project management, mergers and acquisitions, individual and that of its committees and individual directors All executive performance, and management of performance directors should be submitted for re-election at regular against business objectives, measures and milestones.
intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
Delegated responsibilities dealing with the Boards Succession planning is used by the Board to deliver two key delegation of authority concerning financial, commercial responsibilities, firstly to ensure that the Group is managed by and legal matters.
executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge, and secondly to ensure that the Board itself has the right The Board and its committees monitor the application of values, balance of individuals to be able to effectively discharge its standards and processes.
This includes a range of activities responsibilities.
The Nominations Committee has specific such as the formal review of the effectiveness of internal responsibilities in this area but the Board as a whole is also controls see page 89. involved in overseeing the development of management To ensure that non-executive directors can constructively resources in the Group with the aim of ensuring the Company challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, the Board has the individuals with the right skills to meet the needs of an has adopted a process of reviewing the development of strategy increasingly complex and global business.
The process adopted and formally approving the agreed strategy for the Company on for the appointment of non-executive and executive directors is an annual basis.
In 2010, the Board members were provided detailed in the Nominations Committee report.
with opportunities to engage in strategy development through All non-executive directors are advised of the likely time informal meetings and workshops as well as formal Board commitments at appointment and are asked to seek approval meetings.
Typical non-executive director induction programme head office functions aPProximately ten hours Matters covered Facilitated by Duties of a director, Board procedures, corporate governance, Company Secretary Code of Conduct Business planning and control, and risk management Director Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury processes Strategy and planning processes Group Strategy Director Enterprise Metrics the measures used by the Board and Managing Director, Performance Excellence management to measure and monitor performance Investor Relations Investor Relations Director Corporate Responsibility Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility Internal Audit Head of Internal Audit Business Development Group Business Development Director meetings with senior executives aPProximately six hours Matters covered Facilitated by uK and international london-based Programmes & Support UK defence and security businesses Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support International Saudi Arabia, Australia, India, Oman Group Managing Director, International us washington, dc BAE Systems, Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. Executive Vice Presidents, BAE Systems, Inc. oPerational site visits aPProximately five days UK US Military Air Solutions Warton and Samlesbury, Lancashire Electronic Solutions Nashua, NH Surface Ships Portsmouth US Combat Systems York, PA 84 www.
com from the Nominations Committee if they wish to take on Accountability additional external appointments.
The ability of individual Principles The board to present a balanced and directors to allocate sufficient time to the discharge of their understandable assessment of the companys position and responsibilities is considered as part of the directors annual prospects The board is responsible for determining the evaluation process overseen by the Chairman.
Any issues nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by take in achieving its strategic objectives The board should the Nominations Committee, chaired for this purpose by the maintain sound risk management and internal control Senior Independent Director.
systems The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should An induction programme is agreed for all new directors aimed at apply the corporate reporting and risk management and ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and internal control principles, and for maintaining an awareness of the Companys core processes, its people and appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
A typical induction programme is shown opposite.
Through this report and, as required, through other periodic The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and financial statements, the Board is committed to providing Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that directors shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys are supplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form position and prospects.
and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the normal course of business, such information is The arrangements established by the Board for the application provided by the Chief Executive in a regular report to the Board of risk management and internal control principles are detailed that includes information on operational matters, strategic on page 87.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee developments, reports on the performance of Group operations, oversight of the management of the relationship with the financial performance relative to the business plan, business Companys auditors, further details of which can be found in the development, corporate responsibility and investor relations.
Audit Committee report on page 89.
In addition to the induction programme that all directors Remuneration undertake on joining the Board, an ongoing programme of Principles Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to director development and Company awareness has been attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required developed.
For example, as part of the annual programme of to run the company successfully, but a company should Board meetings, directors will typically visit the Groups principal avoid paying more than is necessary for this purpose A operations to meet employees and gain an understanding of the significant proportion of executive directors remuneration Groups products and services.
In 2010, the Board visited the should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and Companys Support Solutions and Information Solutions individual performance There should be a formal and businesses in San Diego, and the Surface Ships business in transparent procedure for developing policy on executive Portsmouth.
Also, the Board undertakes training sessions on remuneration, and for fixing the remuneration packages of particular matters, and last year directors participated in individual directors No director should be involved in Responsible Business Awareness Training sessions facilitated deciding his or her own remuneration.
As part of the recently completed evaluation The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee process, the Chairman is meeting with all directors individually, responsibility for agreeing remuneration policy and the and agreeing training and development.
individual remuneration of the executive directors, the For the last six years the Boards annual effectiveness Chairman, members of the Executive Committee and the evaluations have been undertaken by Sheena Crane, an Company Secretary see Remuneration report on pages 96 to experienced consultant, whose only interest with BAE Systems 119.
The Committee is formed exclusively of independent is with regards to her work with the Board and undertaking non-executive directors.
similar performance evaluation work for the Executive Relations with shareholders Committee.
She was appointed to perform this work in Principles There should be a dialogue with shareholders consultation with the Nominations Committee.
The evaluation based on the mutual understanding of objectives The process is based on the facilitator interviewing each of the board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a directors, and recording their views on the effectiveness of the satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place The Board and its committees work, and on the performance of board should use the AGM to communicate with investors individual directors.
Feedback on Board performance is and to encourage their participation.
presented to a meeting of the Board, which agrees actions and objectives for the following year based on the information the The Company has a well-developed investor relations facilitator provides and the conclusions that the Board derived programme managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance from this.
Director and Investor Relations Director.
In addition, the Chairman is in regular contact with major shareholders and Individual directors are also subject to annual performance looks to keep them informed of progress on corporate evaluation, and the Chairman meets with each director and governance matters.
In order to assist in developing an provides feedback on a one-to-one basis committee chairmen understanding of the views of major shareholders, each year the also get feedback on committee performance.
Feedback on the Company commissions a survey of investors undertaken by Chairmans performance is provided by the facilitator directly to external consultants.
The results of the survey are presented to the Boards Senior Independent Director, who discusses this the Board.
with the other non-executive directors before discussing this with the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
Subject to continued The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations satisfactory performance, directors seek re-election on an website that provides, amongst other things, information on annual basis.
investing in BAE Systems and copies of the presentation materials used for key shareholder presentations.
This can be accessed via the Companys website, www.
com BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 85 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the notconstitute a significant link.
In reaching this determination opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to shareholders either the following matters were taken into consideration: electronically via the Companys website or by post.
All resolutions as an adviser to CDR, Mr Olver has no management detailed in the Notice of Meeting are voted on by way of a poll so responsibilities or oversight obligations in respect of CDR as to ensure that all votes are counted on the basis of one vote for orany of its investments: and every share held.
The result of the voting on all resolutions is published on the Companys website.
Mr Olver has no involvement with the companies that MrQuarta is a director of, or has management responsibility Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code for, within CDR.
The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout 2010, Mr Olver has undertaken to advise the Board should there except that between 1 January 2010 and 8 February the beany material change in his relationship with CDR whilst membership of the Remuneration Committee consisted of two MrQuarta has an involvement with that firm.
independent non-executive directors and the Chairman of the Mr Symon and Mr Rose are both non-executive directors of Company who had been independent on appointment to the BTGroup plc and the Board has determined that, as they both position of Chairman.
The Committee met once during this serve in a non-executive capacity, both are independent for the period and the only decision made concerning directors purposes of paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code paragraph remuneration was to introduce clawback provisions into the B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In 2010, the Board was scheduled to meet seven times and The Board inaddition two days were spent reviewing strategy.
Additional The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, eight Board meetings are called as required and in total the Board non-executive directors and three executive directors.
met 11 times during the year.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior and its committees in 2010 is shown in the table below.
Amongst the duties undertaken by The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the SirPeter during the year was to meet with the non-executive exception of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes directors without the Chairman present to discuss the of the Combined Code.
Each of these directors has been Chairmans performance.
identified on pages 76 and 77 of this report.
The Companys Articles of Association require that all new Mr Quarta is a partner in Clayton, Dubilier & Rice CDR and directors seek re-election to the Board at the following AGM.
MrOlver is an adviser to that firm.
The Board has considered Inaddition, the Board has agreed that in compliance with the MrQuartas independence in light of the provisions in paragraph UKCorporate Governance Code all directors shall seek A.
3.1 of the Combined Code paragraph B.
1.1 of the UK re-election on an annual basis.
The Board has set out in the Corporate Governance Code concerning significant links with Notice of Annual General Meeting their reasons for supporting other directors through involvement with other companies or the re-election of those directors seeking re-election at the bodies.
Following review, the Board considers that, for the forthcoming AGM.
purposes of the Code, their relationship through CDR does attendance By individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2010 Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Mr P M Anderson 10 11 3 3 6 6 1 Mr P J Carroll 5 5 2 2 2 Ms H Green 1 2 0 1 Mr M J Hartnall 10 11 6 6 Ms L P Hudson 10 11 1 1 3 Mr A G Inglis 3 6 1 2 Mr I G King 11 11 1 1 Sir Peter Mason 11 11 5 6 4 4 8 8 Mr R L Olver 10 11 7 8 2 2 1 1 4 Mr R Quarta 6 11 5 6 7 7 Mr G W Rose 11 11 5 Mr N C Rose 7 9 5 6 3 5 Mr C G Symon 10 11 7 7 Mr R K Uppal 8 11 2 5 1 1 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Retired from the Board on 5 May 2010.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 November 2010.
3 Retired from the Board on 9 July 2010.
4 Attended six of the seven scheduled Board meetings held during the year.
5 Appointed to the Board on 8 February 2010.
com Risk management and internal control assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is As reported in the Companys 2009 Annual Report, the Board accurate and timely, and based on the maintenance of proper has reviewed the historical control failures associated with the records supported by robust  processes: global settlement agreement with the UK Serious Fraud Office and and the US Department of Justice announced in February 2010, assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable and believes that the Company has systematically enhanced laws and regulations at all times, and also internal policies in relevant compliance policies and processes since the behaviour respect of the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated referred to in the settlements occurred.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Details of the processes the Company has put in place to Groups system of risk management and internal control manage risk can be found on pages 56 and 57 of this report.
processes, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, in accordance with the The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility Code and the Turnbull guidance as revised.
for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that the Committee reports to the Board on its findings so that the was in place throughout 2010 and to the date of this report, that Board as a whole can take a view on this matter.
In order to encompasses, amongst other things, the policies, processes, assist the Audit Committee and the Board in this review, the tasks and behaviours that, taken together, seek to: Company has developed the Operational Assurance Statement facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company: OAS process see below.
This has been subject to regular review over a number of years, which has resulted in a number enable it to respond appropriately to significant operational, ofrefinements being made.
financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out its business: oPerational assurance statement oas Key characteristics A half-yearly review process to provide assurance that mandated policies and processes are being complied with, and a formal assessment of business risk.
All senior executives with specific profit or loss accountability for a line of business Line Leaders and functional directors are required to implement robust local processes to determine how their OAS should be completed.
OAS returns are submitted to theChief Executive and reviewed by the Audit Director and Director Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury.
Results from the OAS are presented to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees, and form part of the Boards regular review of risk.
All returns aremade available to the Groups auditors for use in their audit activities.
The OAS is formed of the following two parts: 1.
Assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework Line Leaders of all businesses and relevant functional directors are required to complete and sign off an OAS recording their formal review of compliance against the Companys Operational Framework covering, amongst other things, the following: Health and safety Advisers General compliance with the Delegated authorities Environment Engineering Operational Framework Financial controls Product safety Business planning Effectiveness of internal Risk management Sponsorship and Lifecycle Management controls in joint ventures People charitable giving a core Group project and associated Gifts and hospitality Product trading policy and management process undertakings Conflicts of interest pursuit of exports Mergers, acquisitions and Ethical business conduct Security Lobbying and political disposals Compliance with law, Use of IT support regulation and codes of practice Where simple yes no answers are not appropriate, an assessment of compliance is required to be made against structured qualitative guidance.
Minimum satisfactory levels of compliance are set by policy.
If not compliant, a robust plan to achieve compliance is mandated and monitored through the Groups performance management processes and at the relevant audit reviewboard.
Identification and management of key risks Line Leaders of all businesses and functional directors are required to identify their key risks nominally 20, and analyse them in terms of size of impact and probability.
An owner is required to be assigned to each risk, and mitigation plans produced and managed by the relevant business.
The Executive Committee conducts risk workshops to analyse and allocate management responsibility for the management of the Groups most significant non-financial risks.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 87 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued Risks are identified on a bottom-up basis as part of the OAS Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the process.
This process is mandated across the Group and overall control environment, the consistent application of these requires that the heads of all businesses and functions identify processes is equally important.
The consistent application of their key risks.
As part of this process, an assessment is made world-class control processes is a key management objective.
of theprobability of the risk arising and its potential impact on The Company is committed to the protection of its assets, which theGroups business plan.
All risks have an owner who is include human, property and financial resources, through an responsible for production and implementation of plans effective risk management process, underpinned where aimedat mitigating the risk.
The output from the Groups risk appropriate by insurance.
processes is reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk Committee and it produces a register of non-financial risks.
identification procedures and control processes implemented Aswith risks identified through the OAS process, all risks on the by management.
It provides objective assurance as to the non-financial risks register have owners who are responsible for operation and validity of the systems of internal control through mitigating them.
a programme of cyclical reviews making recommendations for The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing business and control improvements as required.
effectiveness of the Companys risk management processes The overall responsibility for the system of internal control as part of its review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
withinBAE Systems rests with the directors of the Company.
Also, twice a year, the Audit Committee receives reports on the Responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control output from the OAS process, details of the changes in the risks procedures lies with the Line Leaders of each operating business.
identified by it and the status of mitigation plans.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee undertakes a similar role in respect of In line with any system of internal control, the policies and the non-financial risk register.
The Board receives reports from processes that are mandated in the Operational Framework are the chairmen of these two committees, providing details of the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to work they have undertaken.
Once a year, the Audit and Corporate achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable Responsibility committees hold a joint meeting to agree the and not absolute assurance against material misstatement annual programme for the Groups Internal Audit function.
Each year the Board specifically reviews the risks identified in The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint the risk management processes.
This is aimed at providing the ventures and other collaborations rests, on the whole, with Board with an appreciation of the key risks within the business the senior management of those operations.
The Company and oversight of how they are being managed.
monitors its investments and exerts influence through board representation.
Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are escalated through the management team ultimately to the Going concern Board if appropriate.
The Operational Framework provides a The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely common framework across the Company for operational and to affect its future development, performance and position, are financial controls, and is reviewed on a regular basis by the set out in the operating group reviews on pages 66 to 74.
The business policies and processes detailed within financial position of the Group, including information on order theOperational Framework draw on global best practice and intake, cash flow, treasury policy and liquidity, can be found in their application is mandated across the organisation.
the review of financial performance on pages 36 to 44.
Principal LifecycleManagement LCM is such a process, and promotes risks are detailed on pages 58 to 63.
In addition, the financial the application of best practice programme execution and statements include, amongst other things, notes on finance facilitates continuous improvement across the Group.
It costs page 142, loans and overdrafts page 158, and financial considers the whole life of projects from inception to delivery risk management page 176. into service and eventual disposal, and its application is critical After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable to our capability in delivering projects to schedule and cost.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and Total Performance reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Leadership TPL.
The IBP, approved annually by the Board, preparing the accounts.
results in an agreed long-term strategy for each operating group, On behalf of the Board together with detailed near-term budgets.
The QBRs evaluate progress against the IBP, and business performance against objectives, measures and milestones.
TPL drives business success by linking individual goals to those of the organisation, enabling employees to understand how their own success contributes to the success of the whole business.
com Governance Audit Committee report The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2010.
Nick Rose Members and Ravi Uppal joined the Committee on 17 February 2010.
Michael Hartnall Chairman All its members are independent in accordance with provision Sir Peter Mason A.
Roberto Quarta Michael Hartnall has been chairman of the Committee since Nick Rose 2003.
He was formerly the finance director of a FTSE 100 Ravi Uppal company and is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
As reported by the Chairman Responsibilities Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial on page 79, the appointment to the Committee of Nick Rose, equipped with the experience and skills gained in his role as reporting, internal control policies and procedures for theidentification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Chief Financial Officer of Diageo plc, provides additional expertise and longer-term succession planning.
Further Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
biographical details on the individual members is provided onpages 76 and 77.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit Finance Director, Director Financial Control, Reporting and Treasury, and the head of Internal Audit normally attend its function including approving the appointment or removal of the head of Internal Audit.
During the year, the Committee held individual meetings without Approving, in conjunction with the Corporate Responsibility Committee, an annual programme of internal audit work.
Group executives present, without the head of Internal Audit present, solely with the head of Internal Audit present, and also Considering and making recommendations to the Board on solely with the external auditors present.
the appointment of the Auditors.
The Auditors and head of Internal Audit have direct access to the Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit programme Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review, independent professional advice on any matters covered by including the terms of their engagement and fees, their itsterms of reference.
independence and expertise, resources and qualification, and assessing the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external auditors.
The Committee Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of reviews regularly the amount and nature of non-audit work they the Auditors to supply non-audit services.
It believes that it is not appropriate to limit the level of The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be such work by reference to a set percentage of the audit fee, as this does not take into account important judgements that need found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference are reviewed on to be made concerning the nature of work undertaken to help safeguard the Auditors independence.
During the year the Committee reviewed its policy in relation to the undertaking of non-audit work by the external auditors and implemented a revised policy as reported on page 90.
On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
Meetings The Committee met six times in 2010.
Activities The principal activities undertaken by the Committee in the period under review are set out below.
Internal controls and risk The Committee received and considered reports during the year from the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Groups Internal Audit function on the work they had undertaken in reviewing and auditing the control environment, in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Groups internal controls framework, which is based on a set of core processes that have been developed over a number of years, is documented in the Operational Framework further information on which is provided on page 84.
Twice during the year, the Committee reviewed the results of the Groups Operational Assurance Statement OAS process, Michael Hartnall through which senior managers across the Group report Audit Committee Chairman on the quality of their businesses implementation and BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 89 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued compliance with the policies mandated in the Operational met with the Corporate Responsibility Committee to consider Framework.
Further information on the OAS is provided on a programme of internal audit work aimed at assessing the page 87. effectiveness of policies and processes relating to key areas of ethical and reputational risk: The Committee reviewed the output from the OAS process thatrequires managers to evaluate, identify and report on agreed the internal audit programme for 2010: and significant risks to the delivery of their business plans, and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit toreport on the status of plans to mitigate such risks.
In addition to the Committees own consideration, The Committee assessed the effectiveness of the Groups this included discussion of the assessment and input from internal controls and reviewed the related disclosures in the key stakeholders within the Group.
The Committee also met with the new head of US Internal Audit As part of the Committees programme to gain a greater following her appointment.
awareness of the Groups operations and to understand in The Auditors more detail the implementation of core control processes, The Committee: it met with: agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be senior executives from the Combat Systems business in undertaken by the Auditors: theUS: and reviewed with the Auditors the findings of their work: Detica senior management at Deticas UK offices.
reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to As well as giving the Committee the opportunity to meet and the Auditors and the statement concerning such disclosure in discuss issues direct with operational management, these the Annual Report: sessions provide a practical demonstration of the Groups risk identification and risk mitigation processes within the context agreed the fees payable in respect of the 2010 audit work: of its wider internal control system.
undertook an annual review of the effectiveness and The Committee also met with: performance of the Auditors which included, in addition to the Committees own consideration, assessment and input from the Chairman of the Information Technology & Management key stakeholders within the Group, and was discussed by the Functional Council to receive a report on the governance, Committee.
It also received assurances from the Auditors management and security of IT: regarding their independence.
On the basis of this review the the Group Taxation Director to receive a report on taxation Committee recommended to the Board that it recommend matters: and that shareholders support the re-appointment of the Auditors at the 2011 Annual General Meeting: and the Pensions Director to receive an update on pension scheme matters.
developed and implemented a revised policy in respect of the provision of Non-Audit Services by the Auditors.
Under Financial reporting the policy: The Committee: certain Non-Audit Services listed in the table on page 91 reviewed the financial statements and, as part of this are prohibited from being provided by the Auditors.
process, the significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: Audit-Related Services and Permitted Non-Audit Services listed in the table on page 91 are pre-approved by the reviewed liquidity risk and the basis for preparing the Group Committee up to 250,000 subject to senior finance accounts on a going concern basis, including the analysis approval at business level up to 100,000 and subject supporting the going concern judgement and disclosures in additionally to the approval of the Director Financial Control, the financial statements: Reporting and Treasury up to 250,000.
Work to be reviewed the financial statements in the 2009 and 2010 undertaken beyond this threshold requires consent from the Annual Reports, and the 2010 Half-yearly Report, and Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Chairman received a report from the Auditors on the statements: and up to 500,000 or the full Committee over 500,000. reviewed the two Interim Management Statements prior to any other Non-Audit Services, which are neither prohibited their publication in May and October 2010. nor defined as Permitted Non-Audit Services as set out on page 91, are subject to approval up to 100,000 by the Internal Audit Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee Chairman, The Committee: and beyond that threshold by the full Committee.
reviewed output from the internal audit programme twice On behalf of the Audit Committee during the year and considered progress against the programme: Michael Hartnall Audit Committee Chairman 90 www.
com Policy on non-audit services Provided by the audit ors Prohibited Non-Audit Services Audit-Related Services Permitted Non-Audit Services, subject Book-keeping and work relating to the Reporting required by law or regulation to approval under the policy preparation of accounting records and to be provided by the Auditors: Tax compliance services: financial statements that will ultimately Reviews of interim financial Tax advisory services: be subject to external audit: information: Due diligence services relating to Financial information system design Reporting on regulatory returns: acquisitions of new businesses or and implementation: significant investments in businesses, Reporting to a regulator on client Appraisal or valuation services in joint ventures or strategic alliances: assets: respect of material assets: Public reporting on investment Reporting on government grants: Actuarial services: circulars: Reporting on internal financial controls Internal auditing: Private reporting to sponsors or similar when required by law or regulation: and parties in connection with investment Investment adviser or broking: Extended work undertaken at the circulars including comfort letters and Advocacy services: request of those charged with reporting on working capital governance on financial information statements : Secondments to management this does not include accounting positions that include decision-making: Preparing information for third parties services and or financial controls and relating to acquisitions and disposals, performed where this work is integrated including the conversion of financial Any work where a mutuality of interest with the audit work, and is performed statements into other accounting is created that could compromise the on the same principal terms and standards: independence of the Auditors.
Liquidation services in respect of redundant subsidiaries or associate companies: Participation in the evaluation of Internal Audit: and Accounting advice.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 91 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee report The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place Members throughout 2010.
Paul Anderson Chairman Mr Anderson was appointed to the Committee on 17 February Harriet Green 2010 and succeeded Mr Inglis as Chairman of the Committee Sir Peter Mason on 9 July 2010.
Mr Uppal ceased to be a member of the Committee on 17 February 2010.
Mr Inglis ceased to be a Responsibilities Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, member of the Committee on 9 July 2010 and Ms Green joined the Committee on 1 November 2010 Mr Olver attended and policy on social, environmental and ethical matters.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control policies and procedures for the identification, The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group General Counsel, Group HR Director, Managing Director, assessment, management and reporting of reputational risks, including health and safety, workplace policies, Corporate Responsibility and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
environmental impact and business ethics.
Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the The head of the Companys Internal Audit function and managing director of the CR function have direct access to the Chairman of Companys Internal Audit function in relation to Corporate Responsibility CR and monitoring the development of the the Committee.
capability and capacity of the function to perform its role with The Committee is responsible for appointing the CR Assurer regards to CR assurance and, in particular, ethical business presently Deloitte and keeping under review its fees, conduct.
independence and objectivity, scope of work, and the expertise and resources available to it.
Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the CRAssurer an independent entity appointed to act as The Chairman of the Committee reports on the proceedings of an external assurer of the Companys CR reporting all Committee meetings to the Board and all directors receive and assessing management responsiveness to copies of the Committees minutes.
The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on independent professional advice on any matters covered by its social, environmental and ethical issues.
Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed appropriate CR-related performance objectives for executive as part of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
directors and, in due course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives.
The Committee held a joint meeting with the Audit Committee during the year to review work undertaken by the Internal Audit Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to function and agree the programme of audit work for the obtain further advice on ethical issues or raise and report following year.
concerns, in confidence, where there may be possible improprieties.
Meetings The Committee met four times in 2010.
Monitoring the implementation of the Woolf Report and Activities ensuring that the global Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and reflects best practice for such codes.
The principal activities undertaken by the Committee during 2010 are detailed below.
Ensuring the Corporate Responsibility section of the Annual Report includes an examination of ethical business conduct CR objectives The Committee agreed with the Chief Executive that the within the Company.
Company should continue to focus on the following areas The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility of corporate responsibility: Committee can be found on the Companys website or can business conduct: be obtained from the Company Secretary.
safety: and diversity and inclusion.
At the end of 2009, the Committee agreed management objectives in the areas of business conduct, safety, and diversity and inclusion, and the Remuneration Committee incorporated these into the non-financial objectives against which annual incentive payments for executive directors and other senior managers were to be based.
At meetings held during the year, the Committee reviewed progress against these objectives.
Actual performance against the measures agreed for the 2010 objectives was determined by the Committee at the end of the year and a recommendation was made to the Remuneration Committee to assist it in determining the total level of payout Paul Anderson under the annual incentive plan.
Corporate Responsibility At the end of last year, the Committee agreed corporate Committee Chairman  management objectives for 2011.
com Risk management The Committee reviewed the output from the Companys risk management processes as they relate to corporate  risks.
These processes are as follows: Operational Assurance Statement OAS process a halfyearly self-assessment process by which businesses and functional heads identify key risks.
Non-financial risk register a top-down analysis of key non-financial and reputational risks reviewed regularly and updated by the Executive Committee.
The Committee was provided with details of the risks reported via the above processes and related mitigation plans.
As part of this activity, the Committee reviewed the Companys crisis management arrangements.
Assurance Assurance as to adherence to corporate  policies is provided to the Committee by the Groups Internal Audit function.
It also receives a report on the activities undertaken by Deloitte LLP, who have been engaged by the Committee to provide independent assurance on certain corporate responsibility matters.
The Head of Internal Audit attends all of the Committees meetings and, amongst other things, reports regularly on corporate  work undertaken by the Internal Audit function and the key findings from this.
The Committee has reviewed with the Head of Internal Audit the development of the skills and capabilities within the Internal Audit function required to effectively undertake corporate  audit work.
Deloitte provides the Committee with a letter detailing the scope of the work undertaken and the key observations arising from this.
The Committee reviewed the letter issued by Deloitte in 2010 following the review of the CR Report and agreed matters to be addressed arising from the observations made.
Business conduct During the year, the Committee monitored progress against the milestones set for the implementation of the recommendations in the Woolf Report.
It also agreed how an assessment would be undertaken in the first half of 2011 of the effectiveness of the implementation of the 23 recommendations contained in the report.
Environment In 2010, the Committee reviewed progress towards developing the Groups approach to environmental sustainability.
Ethics Helpline Recognising the importance of having a means by which employees may raise issues or seek guidance on matters in confidence, the Committee reviews the operation of the Ethics Helpline.
At two of the Committees meetings held in 2010 it reviewed the working of the Ethics Helpline, and the nature and number of contacts made.
Corporate Responsibility Report The Committee reviewed and approved the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report.
Terms of reference The Committee reviewed its terms of reference.
On behalf of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Paul Anderson Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 93 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance continued Governance Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2010.
Members It is chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst he is not Dick Olver Chairman deemed to be independent, the other two members of the Paul Anderson Committee are independent non-executive directors in Sir Peter Mason accordance with provision A.
When dealing with any matters concerning his membership of Responsibilities the Board the Chairman will absent himself from the meeting Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of as required, and meetings will be chaired by the Boards Senior the Board and making recommendations to the Board on any Independent Director, Sir Peter Mason.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive and the Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable Group HR Director to attend its meetings.
candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
During the year, the Committee retained the services of the search consultants Zygos Partners and Spencer Stuart to assist Planning for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
in identifying potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
Recommending to the Board the membership and Nick Rose, an independent non-executive director, attended chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Committee meetings in the period from June to November 2010.
Meetings The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can The Committee met eight times in 2010. be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from Activities the Company Secretary.
The principal activities undertaken by the Committee in the period under review are set out below.
Executive succession planning The Committee is responsible for reviewing the plans and processes aimed at ensuring that the Company has a senior executive resource with the necessary skills and experience to meet the Groups future needs, with a particular interest in long-term succession planning for the executive membership of the Board.
As in past years, the Committee reviewed the output from the Groups executive development and succession planning processes.
This review looked at threats to achieving the desired resource plans, and the overall health of the plans in terms of depth of resource across readiness categories and positions, average age profiles across readiness categories, gender diversity, and attrition rates.
In addition, the Committee reviewed individual succession plans for the most senior executive positions in the Company including existing executive director appointments.
During 2010, the Committee managed the search for a suitable candidate to succeed George Rose as Group Finance Director Mr Rose having indicated that he was thinking about retiring in 2011.
To assist the Committee in this activity, Nick Rose, until recently Chief Financial Officer of Diageo plc, attended meetings and participated fully in the search activity.
In addition, the Committee engaged the services of the search consultants Spencer Stuart.
The search was undertaken against a detailed job specification and included both internal and external candidates.
Having completed the process, the Committee agreed to nominate Peter Lynas, a senior finance executive within the Company, for the position and he was subsequently appointed by the Board with such appointment to be effective from 1 April 2011.
Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman 94 www.
com Non-executive succession planning As explained on page 79, the Committee also undertook a review of the Boards long-term succession requirements in terms of non-executive directors.
This review looked at both theBoards skill and experience requirements, and the needs ofthe committees.
This work was undertaken recognising that two non-executive directors, Phil Carroll and Andy Inglis, were looking to stand down from the Board, and also taking into consideration the length of service and skill experience profile of current non-executive Board members.
Board committee membership The Committee is responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for membership of the Boards committees.
A number of changes were made to committee membership during the year to ensure that they comprised individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience, and that they comply with the requirements of the Companys Articles of Association.
Conflicts of interest As required by procedures adopted by the Board to deal with the authorisation of potential conflicts of interest in accordance with UK company law, the Committee reviewed such authorisations previously agreed by the Board and made recommendations regarding their renewal.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee Dick Olver Nominations Committee Chairman BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 95 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview
