Governance 58 Corporate responsibility Governance for ground-breaking sustainability initiatives.
A Board CR Committee, with the overriding objective The team is fully committed to making continual to ensure that CR initiatives are rmly aligned with progress in energy efficiency, recycling and waste corporate strategy, underlines the importance of management, and Earls Court & Olympia became CR in Capcos corporate governance structure.
This the first venues to be certied under the new Committee is chaired by Ian Henderson and includes BS8901 standard.
The team now sits on the ISO Ian Durant and Ian Hawksworth.
The principal role committee to establish an international standard of the Board CR Committee, as stated in its terms of for sustainability in venues.
reference, is to ensure the adequacy of the Groups policies and the effectiveness of their application The strategy to develop and enhance the Covent within the Group.
Reporting to this Committee is a Garden estate is based upon sympathetic consideration CR Executive Committee chaired by Ian Hawksworth of the local built environment and the need to care with membership reecting all business units within for a number of iconic listed buildings.
The Covent the Group and a Charity Donations Committee.
Garden vision reects this approach in its championing The Groups Business Code of Practice sets out the of pedestrian access and its aim to enhance the long-term commitment to high standards of social, public realm in the area.
In particular in 2010, ethical and environmental issues and frames the constructive support was given for the roll-out of CR aims and objectives, which will be set and the Legible London signage initiative and the reviewed annually.
positioning of bike stands under the Mayors London Cycle Hire Scheme.
First-year accreditations and indices A sustainable approach towards the management Energy, waste and water usage for The Great Capital of the Groups assets is of great importance to Partnership portfolio is recorded by the joint venture the Board and it is the intention to build on the and audited by Bureau Veritas.
benchmarking achieved to date as members of the FTSE4Good Index and, through EC&O Venues, Community engagement the London Green 500 group.
Nowhere are communities more diverse than in London and it is the Groups ongoing aim to work Environment closely with the people who live and work where As Capco becomes more involved in active assets are located, as highlighted above and in the development, it intends to promote and implement Groups Business Code of Practice.
In Covent Garden best industry practice in design, construction, the and EC&O Venues, a number of community and environment and sustainability.
This is demonstrated charity initiatives were held during 2010. in the Groups approach to the Earls Court & West Kensington Opportunity Area ECOA.
The The Covent Garden team has actively engaged masterplan for this major new district of London with and become part of the local community since is being created by the professional team led by Sir the initial acquisition in 2006.
With offices based Terry Farrell, based on his vision of London Plus.
in the estate, they have built strong relationships with the Covent Garden Area Trust, residents and Sustainability and the environment are at the heart the wider business community, supporting key of the masterplan, and leading environmental district initiatives and garnering support for Capco consultants Beyond Green are an integral member activities such as the introduction of Apple into of the design team.
As the masterplan becomes Bedford Chambers.
a reality, the approach to matters relating to the community, architectural design, the environment Between April and July, the Covent Garden team and sustainability will be embedded in the ethos of supported a ground-breaking project with two the actual development and construction processes.
Called Take One, it enabled 46 children to participate in a curriculum-based EC&O Venues is at the forefront of event assignment, which allowed them to explore sustainability, and in recognition of this won the challenging social issues through lm making and 2010 Event Magazine Green Award, two AEO new digital media.
At Christmas the sum of 25,000 Excellence Awards, and a Visit London Gold Award was raised for The Princes Trust in Covent Garden Capital & Counties Properties PLC Report & Accounts 2010
