36 Governance corporate Governance the companys approach to On 1 July 2009 Tessa Bamford joined the Board.
corporate Governance Tessa is also currently a Director of Cantos The Board believes that, in terms of the overall Communications Limited and has a broad direction and control of the Company, effective finance and business development background.
corporate governance will come principally from the values, standards and disciplines it On 21 July 2009, Mark Pain stepped down as seeks to apply in dealings with shareholders, an Executive Director and as Group Finance customers, employees, suppliers, contractors Director and was replaced by David Thomas.
Many of the Companys David has a strong track record as a Finance core values and standards are set out in a Director having held this position at The GAME range of procedures and practice guidelines Group plc and at Millennium and Copthorne communicated throughout the Group.
external governance codes set the framework for the Groups internal standards and it therefore At the end of the financial year the Board seeks to comply with established best practice comprised ten members, including the in all areas of corporate governance.
Chairman, five Non-Executive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The Company statement of compliance with therefore complied during the relevant period code provisions with the principles of the Code in relation to The Company recognises the importance of the balance of Executive and Non-Executive maintaining the highest standards of corporate Directors.
The number and calibre of Nongovernance in all areas of its business.
Throughout Executive Directors on the Board, together the year ended 30 June 2010 the Company with their diverse backgrounds and experience, complied with the provisions of Section 1 of also ensures that this principle is met.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Board responsibilities FRC in June 2008 the Code as detailed The Board has overall authority for the conduct below.
A copy of the Code is available from of the business of the Group.
There are a the FRCs website www.
number of matters that have been specifically reserved for the Board and these include: the Board determination and approval of matters composition relating to the strategy and management of The Company is led and controlled by the the Group, including approval of long-term Group Board.
The names, responsibilities and objectives and commercial strategy and other details of the Group Board Directors are extension of the Groups activities into new set out on pages 28 and 29 of this report.
The businesses geographic areas: Group Board met on 15 occasions during the determination of the structure and capital financial year and attendance at each of these of the Company such as changes to the meetings is set out in Table 2 on page 39.
Groups management and control structure: share issues or buy back of shares: Bob Lawson was appointed Non-Executive approval of financial reporting and controls Chairman of the Company with effect from such as interim and annual results 1 July 2008 and was considered to be announcements, the Group annual report independent on his appointment.
He is also and accounts, dividend payments, currently the Chairman of Hays Plc, the accounting and treasury polices: specialist recruitment company and a Director establishment of effective systems of of The Federation of Groundwork Trusts and will delegation and internal control and the become Non-Executive Chairman of Genus plc annual review of their effectiveness: following its Annual General Meeting on 11 November 2010.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 37 authorising material acquisitions, disposals, year.
Bob is also a member of the Audit and access to his advice and, if necessary, to investments, capital projects and other Nominations Committees.
Following a formal independent professional advice at the significant transactions: performance evaluation process by the Board, Companys expense to assist with the approval of changes to the composition in light of his period of service to date, the Board discharge of their responsibilities as Directors.
of the Board, selection of Chairman has re-appointed Bob for a further one-year During the year the Board took detailed advice and Senior Independent Director and term, subject to re-election, during which period in respect of the raising of additional equity succession planning: he will remain the Senior Independent Director through a Placing and Rights Issue from a appointment and removal of the and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
number of external advisers including the Company Secretary: The Board believes that Bobs performance Companys legal advisers, Slaughter and May determining remuneration of Executive continues to be effective, that he continues to with regard to English law and Davis Polk and Directors, Company Secretary and demonstrate commitment to his role and remains Wardwell LLP with regard to US law and the other senior executives: independent in character and judgement.
Bob Companys financial advisers Credit Suisse annual review of the performance of the will retire and stand for re-election by shareholders Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment Board, its committees and its Directors: at the 2010 AGM, in consequence of the period Bank as Joint Sponsors and Joint Bookrunners.
approval of core policies including, but not that has elapsed since his last re-election under limited to, the Code of Conduct: Health the Articles.
All Directors are provided with a schedule of & Safety Policy: Corporate Responsibility proposed meeting dates for the following Policy: Accounting Policy and Procedure: In addition to Bob Davies, Bill Shannon will calendar year at least six months in advance.
monitoring the Groups overall performance also retire at the 2010 AGM in consequence Any Director who is unable to attend a meeting in relation to its strategies, plans, budgets of the period that has elapsed since his last presents their apologies and is invited to provide and decisions: and re-election and, being eligible, will offer himself their views to the Chairman ahead of the authorisation of conflicts of interest following for re-election.
Bill is a member of the Audit, meeting having reviewed the agenda, briefing recommendations from the Audit Committee Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Reasons and or Nominations Committee.
Following a formal performance evaluation for non-attendance are recorded by the Group process, the Board believes that Bills General Counsel and Company Secretary.
After retirement and re-election performance continues to be effective and the meeting the Group General Counsel and of Directors that he demonstrates commitment to his role.
Company Secretary will meet with any absent The Companys Articles of Association the Director to go through any action points which Articles currently require Directors to submit The Board recommends that shareholders are of relevance to that Director.
themselves for re-election by shareholders at approve the resolutions to be put forward at the first annual general meeting the AGM the 2010 AGM relating to the re-election of Formal minutes of each Board meeting are following their initial appointment to the Board Bob Davies and Bill Shannon.
prepared, circulated and submitted for approval and thereafter at subsequent AGMs at intervals at the next meeting.
of no more than three years, in accordance with information and professional the Code.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed development independence and effectiveness by the Board for an initial three-year term and On joining the Company, each new Director directors independence normally serve a second three-year term participates in an induction process which The Board believes that the Chairman and all subject to performance review and re-election.
includes a meeting with all of the Directors, Non-Executive Directors are independent in that Beyond this a third term of up to three years provision of an induction pack, site visits they have no business or other relationship with may be served subject to a rigorous review.
In and meetings with senior and operational the Group that might influence their accordance with the Code, any Non-Executive management teams.
Director who served nine years or more on the Board would be subject to annual re-election.
The Directors update their skills, knowledge and Roles of chairman, chief executive familiarity with the Company by attending and senior Independent director The Board has noted the provision on annual appropriate external seminars and training The division of responsibility between the re-election of all Directors introduced by the courses, meeting with senior management and Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief UK Corporate Governance Code the New visiting regional and divisional operating offices.
Executive is clearly defined and has been Code which applies to financial years approved by the Board.
beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
In view of In January 2010, the Board met for a full day to the very recent introduction of this requirement, review and develop the overall business strategy The Chairman leads the Board in the the Board has concluded it will not submit all of the Group which included presentations from determination of strategy and in the achievement the Directors for re-election at the annual senior management within the Group as well as of its objectives.
He is responsible for organising general meeting to be held on 17 November external professionals.
the business of the Board, for setting its agenda 2010 the 2010 AGM.
It will thereafter monitor and for ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman emerging practice and take account of Each Director is issued with an agenda, briefing facilitates the effective contribution of the shareholder views on compliance with this papers and comprehensive operating and Non-Executive Directors and also ensures requirement in respect of subsequent years.
financial management reports for the period that the Board receives timely and accurate under review at least a week before any Board information so as to properly conduct its Bob Davies, the Senior Independent Director and Meeting.
The Group General Counsel and business as well as ensuring effective Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, has Company Secretary attends all Board and communications with shareholders.
completed six years service on the Board this Committee Meetings and all Directors have Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 38 Governance corporate governance The Group Chief Executive is responsible for months by the Audit Committee who then make and objectivity of the external auditors and the day-to-day management of the operational recommendations to the Board in respect of the effectiveness of the external audit activities of the Group in accordance with any changes to the authorisations, or terms and process and making recommendations to overall strategy and policy as determined by conditions applied, that may be required.
Each the Board in relation to the appointment, the Board.
The Group Chief Executive, Mark Director is responsible, and is aware of their re-appointment and remuneration of the Clare, carries out duties delegated to him by responsibility, to notify the Audit Committee external auditors: the Board through an Executive Committee and or the Board of any new conflicts or monitoring the Groups financial comprising of himself, the Group Finance possible conflicts and of any change in management and reporting systems and Director, David Thomas, the Group Executive circumstances relating to authorisations already assessing the integrity and effectiveness Directors, Steven Boyes and Clive Fenton, given.
The Board, when authorising any conflict of its accounting procedures, system the Group General Counsel and Company or possible conflict of interest, does not count of internal control and the process for Secretary, Laurence Dent, the Managing in the quorum the Director whose conflict or identifying and monitoring the risks Director of Wilson Bowden Developments possible conflict is being discussed and facing the Group: Limited, Nick Richardson, Group Director of reserves the right to exclude a Director from a reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness Corporate Affairs, Patrick Law and the Group meeting whilst a conflict or possible conflict is of the internal audit function, the annual People and Customer Experience Director, being considered.
The Board may revoke or internal audit plan and all reports produced Jayne Mee.
The Executive Committee meets vary any authorisation at any time.
by the internal auditor and managements on a weekly basis to discuss and review responsiveness to the findings and operational matters and the implementation Board committees recommendations of the internal auditor: of the Groups strategy with a more in-depth The Board has established three standing reviewing whistleblowing procedures and meeting held once a month, which all Committees: the Audit Committee, the ensuring arrangements are in place for members are expected to attend in person.
Remuneration Committee and the Nominations proportionate and independent investigation Committee.
Membership and attendance of each and follow-up action: and The Senior Independent Director has specific Committee is shown in the table on page 39. reviewing and making recommendations to responsibility for co-ordinating the evaluation the Board on the authorisation of Directors by the Nominations Committee of the the audit committee conflicts of interest.
Chairmans effectiveness as well as being a All members of the Audit Committee, as point of contact for shareholders in the event identified in Table 2 on page 39, are independent The Terms of Reference for the Audit of there being any material issues or concerns Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Committee are available from the Companys which the Chairman and or Group Chief Code provision C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that website www.
Executive have failed adequately to address.
Mark Rolfe, who is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and As well as carrying out the work associated with Directors conflicts of interest Wales and was formerly the Finance Director the annual financial reporting cycle, the Audit On 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 of Gallaher Group Plc, has recent and relevant Committee discharged a number of principal codified the duty to avoid conflicts of interests, financial experience.
responsibilities during the year including, inter by which Directors have a duty to avoid a alia, reviews: the effectiveness of internal control situation in which they have, or may have, a The Audit Committee met on five occasions systems: the Audit Committees Terms of direct or indirect conflict of interest or possible during the financial year.
The attendance at Reference: auditor effectiveness, performance conflict of interest with the Company.
This each of these meetings is set out in Table 2 and independence: non-audit fees policy: the duty applies to the exploitation of any property, on page 39.
In addition, senior representatives whistleblowing policy: the internal audit plan: information or opportunity regardless of whether from the auditors, Deloitte LLP Deloitte key accounting policies: judgements and issues: the Company could have taken advantage of it.
attended each of the Audit Committee the external audit plan and associated reports: The Articles were amended at the AGM held on meetings during the financial year.
re-appointment of the external auditors: and 18 November 2008 to include a general power Directors conflicts of interest.
for the Board to authorise such conflicts.
The Audit Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other re-appointment of auditors The Board has, in accordance with the Articles members of senior management and senior The Audit Committee considered the and best practice guidance, authorised the representatives of the external auditors to re-appointment of Deloitte as the auditors to Audit and Nominations Committees to attend meetings as required.
On the basis oversee the process for reviewing and making that Deloittes performance continues to be recommendations to the Board concerning any principal responsibilities satisfactory the Audit Committee made a actual and or potential conflicts of interest which Under its Terms of Reference the Audit recommendation to the Board to propose arise or may arise in relation to each member Committees principal responsibilities are: a resolution re-appointing Deloitte as the of the Board including details of any terms and monitoring the integrity of the Groups auditors to the Company at the 2010 AGM.
conditions which it deems necessary to impose financial statements and any formal on any authorisation given.
This process was announcements relating to the Groups auditor objectivity and carried out satisfactorily during the year.
performance: independence reviewing and challenging where necessary Deloitte provided non-audit related services The Group General Counsel and Company the consistency of, and changes to, its during the year primarily relating to the Secretary maintains a Register of Directors accounting policies: Companys Placing and Rights Issue conflicts of interests which is reviewed every six monitoring the effectiveness, independence which concluded on 4 November 2009.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 39 The Company has developed and implemented The Remuneration Committee met on six obtaining independent professional advice in a policy on Auditor Independence and Non-Audit occasions during the financial year.
Attendance relation to Executive Director remuneration.
The Policy sets out the at each of these meetings is set out in Table 2. duties of the Audit Committee relating to the The Terms of Reference for the Remuneration maintenance of audit independence and principal responsibilities Committee are available from the Companys non-audit fees and the services which the The Remuneration Committees principal website www.
auditors can and cannot provide to the Group.
responsibilities include: determining and reviewing the overall nominations committee Under the Policy the following services should remuneration policy of the Company The members of the Nominations Committee, not be provided by the auditors: with regard to attracting, retaining and the number of meetings held and the attendance bookkeeping or other services related to motivating directors and senior managers at each of these meetings are shown in Table 2. the accounting records or financial of the experience and calibre required: statements: determining and reviewing executive Tessa Bamford joined the Nominations financial information systems design and remuneration policy, including the terms Committee on 1 July 2009. implementation relating to the financial and conditions of employment for Executive statements or accounting records: Directors and their individual remuneration The Nominations Committees principal appraisal or valuation services or packages: responsibilities include: fairness opinions: making recommendations to the Board in regularly reviewing the structure, size actuarial services: relation to the remuneration of the Chairman: and composition required of the Board internal audit outsourcing services: and agreeing targets and benefits in respect of and succession planning for Directors management functions, legal services or performance related pay schemes for all and senior executives: executive recruiting.
employees which are challenging and identifying and nominating candidates commensurate with industry practice: to fill Board vacancies and evaluating The Company is also required, under the approving the rules of and the basis of the role and capabilities required for a Policy, to obtain written confirmation from the participation in Group share options, particular appointment: auditors that they remain independent on an long-term performance plans and cash reviewing the leadership needs of the annual basis.
The Audit Committee is therefore based bonus incentive schemes and the Group to ensure continued ability of satisfied that there are no independence specific awards, grants and payments the Group to compete effectively in issues in respect of the auditors.
made under any such schemes: the market: determining the policy for and scope of annually reviewing, through performance remuneration committee pension arrangements for Executive Directors evaluation, the time required from All members of the Remuneration Committee, and senior management: Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their as set out in Table 2, are considered by the agreeing severance arrangements or other duties: and Company to be independent in accordance compensation for loss of office or early obtaining details of and reviewing any with Code provision B.
2.1. retirement for all employees: interests of candidates which conflict the evaluation of Executive Director or may conflict with the interests of the Tessa Bamford joined the Remuneration performance with regard to the award of Company and recommending to the Committee on 1 July 2009. share incentives, annual bonus and other Board the terms and conditions on which performance based remuneration: and such conflicts should be authorised.
table 2 membership and attendance at Board and committee meetings Group Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Mark Clare 15 15 1 1 Steven Boyes 15 15 Clive Fenton 15 15 David Thomas 15 15 Bob Lawson Chairman 15 15 6 6 Chairman 1 1 Bob Davies 15 15 4 5 Chairman 6 6 1 1 Rod MacEachrane 15 15 5 5 6 6 1 1 Tessa Bamford 15 15 6 6 1 1 Mark Rolfe 14 15 Chairman 5 5 1 1 Bill Shannon 12 15 3 5 3 6 0 1 Includes three special meetings held in respect of the Companys Placing and Rights Issue which concluded on 4 November 2009.
B ob Davies, Mark Rolfe and Bill Shannon presented their comments to the Chairman prior to the meetings they were unable to attend.
15 Indicates number of meetings held whilst a Director.
15 Indicates number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 40 Governance corporate governance The Terms of Reference for the Nominations performance and contribution to the Board The Executive Committee regularly brief senior Committee are available from the Companys and its Committees.
Recommendations from management via telephone conference calls website www.
Egon Zehnder included, inter alia, to increase which allow them to ask questions and enter the frequency of meetings of the Nominations into discussion.
The Board and the Executive The service contracts of the Executive Directors Committee, to revise the procedures and Committee also visit operating divisions and and the letters of appointment of the Nonresponsibility for reviewing the succession plans working sites in order to talk to employees Executive Directors are available for inspection for each of the Directors including the Chairman, face to face and get first-hand experience by any person at the Companys registered to encourage Non-Executive Directors to of employees aspirations and concerns.
office during normal office hours and will be increase the number of site visits beyond those so available at the AGM for 15 minutes prior programmed into the Board meetings schedule The Group runs a Graduate Recruitment to and throughout the meeting.
and to revise the layout of Board papers so as and Development Programme consisting of a to give more emphasis to the key issues that two-year multi-disciplinary programme of both performance evaluation need to be addressed by the Board.
The on-job and off-job modules.
Five graduates In accordance with the Code, the Chairman Chairman, together with the Group General have recently completed their second year of and the Non-Executive Directors met on one Counsel and Company Secretary, will develop the programme and will progress into full-time occasion during the year independently of the and submit an action plan to the Board to roles in the business.
The Group has recruited Executive Directors and the Senior implement the recommendations arising 30 graduates onto the next two-year Independent Director met once during the from the evaluation.
programme which started in August 2010. course of the year with the Non-Executive Directors independently of the Chairman, to employment policy and The Group is committed to employee training assess the performance of the Chairman.
involvement and development at all levels of the The Group is committed to developing the organisation and has introduced a suite of Last year the annual evaluation of the talents of its employees so that they can leadership and management development performance of the Board, its Committees and maximise their career potential and to providing programmes aimed at all levels within the individual Directors was carried out internally rewarding careers in an atmosphere that organisation from graduates and middle by the Chairman and the Group General ensures equal opportunities for all.
Selection management to senior management.
The Counsel and Company Secretary.
Actions for employment and promotion is based on the programme is designed and delivered implemented during the year in respect of objective assessment of ability and experience, internally and is tailored to the needs of the the key issues identified from the evaluation giving full and fair consideration to all applications business.
Succession planning is in place included: the appointment of Egon Zehnder including individuals with disabilities for across the Group and the leadership International Egon Zehnder, an external employment, and the Group is committed development programmes assist with the consultant, to undertake an evaluation of the to ensuring that its workplaces are free from development of individuals as part of the Board, its Committees and its Directors: the unlawful discrimination of any sort.
constitution of a Risk Committee to identify strives to ensure that its policies and practices and manage risks throughout the Group and provide equal opportunities in respect of issues In February 2010 the Company invited all report directly to the Audit Committee: and such as training, career development and eligible employees to participate in the second the review and development of the Companys promotion for all existing or potential staff grant under the Savings Related Share Option brand recognition and land acquisition irrespective of gender, race, ethnic origin, Scheme which was approved by shareholders strategies at the Board Strategy conference colour, religion, physical disability, marital status, at the Companys 2008 AGM the SRSOS.
in January 2010. sexual orientation or age.
Every effort is made This gave those individuals who had previously to retain and support employees who become participated in the 2009 grant, but not used up The evaluation by Egon Zehnder focused on the disabled whilst working within the Group.
all of their entitlement, the opportunity to increase key areas of Board Structure, Board Dynamics their savings and gave new employees the and Relationships, Board Processes, Board The Board recognises that employee chance to participate in the SRSOS and Committees, People and People Processes, engagement is a key factor in the long-term become more involved in the Companys Company Strategy and Performance, Capital success of the Company and has implemented performance.
Approximately 18% of eligible and Risk and Progress and Benchmarking.
a comprehensive employee engagement employees participated.
A questionnaire dealing with each of these programme with the aim of creating a strong, issues was circulated to each Director for shared culture.
All employees are invited to take New initiatives, such as an online recruitment completion and return.
Regular attendees at part in an engagement survey each January system and a flexible benefits package, were Committee meetings were also asked to and the results of this survey are fed back to introduced by the Group during the year to complete questions on the performance of the each operating division who use the results to improve recruitment, motivation and respective Committees.
Representatives from formulate a plan for improving engagement engagement of new and existing employees.
Egon Zehnder attended a Board meeting in during the year ahead.
order to review how the meetings are investor relations conducted and undertook one-to-one A key part of effective employee engagement The Board believes that the effective interviews with each of the Directors.
The Company ensures management of investor relations is critical that all significant events, economic factors to its relationship with its shareholders and to Egon Zehnder presented their findings to the and financial updates and the impact of the market in which the Companys shares Board in August 2010 and intend to provide these on the performance of the Company are held, analysed and traded.
The Groups feedback, from the evaluation, to each are communicated to employees through corporate governance framework sets the individual Director relating to their respective email alerts and regular newsletters.
context for its continuing investor relations Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 GoveRnAnce 41 programme particularly in respect of key areas The Groups joint brokers, Credit Suisse The Placing and the Rights Issue, together with such as board membership, remuneration and Securities Europe Limited and UBS Investment the amended financing arrangements, have public accountability statements.
Bank, also work actively on behalf of the significantly strengthened the position of the Company in an effort to ensure that investors Group and have enabled the Group to take The Group continues to develop its investor and potential investors in the business are given advantage of land acquisition opportunities.
communication programme in conjunction reliable information on the Groups operations, There has been some recovery in the new with its financial public relations PR advisers, its values and ethos in order to make informed housing market during the year, although Maitland, and the Groups joint brokers, Credit investment decisions.
The Chairman of the the market remains subject to economic Suisse Securities Europe Limited and UBS Company and the Chairman of the uncertainty and a lack of mortgage finance Investment Bank.
The Companys website Remuneration Committee also consult, particularly in the higher loan to value segment.
co. uk provides a annually, with major shareholders on the The amended financing arrangements provide full Company profile, regular corporate news Companys remuneration policy.
an appropriate alternative framework for the updates, access to the Companys share Group should a further downturn arise.
price, regulatory announcements and investor The Group Finance Director presents regular relations information.
reports to the Group Board on the Companys Accordingly, after making enquiries, the investor relations activities to ensure that it has Directors have formed a judgement, at the Further, shareholder services have been a clear understanding of the views of major time of approving these financial statements, established whereby shareholders may deal shareholders.
that there is a reasonable expectation that the in the Companys shares via its website and Company has adequate resources to continue also access the Companys share register to Going concern in operational existence for the foreseeable view their shareholding, with the opportunity In determining the appropriate basis of future being at least twelve months from the date to make changes to their account details, preparation of the financial statements, the of these financial statements.
For this reason, including the downloading of appropriate Directors are required to consider whether the they continue to adopt the going concern basis forms and also access the history of their Group can continue in operational existence in preparing the financial statements.
internal control and risk The Groups annual and interim reports, together The Groups business activities, together with management with interim management statements and half factors which the Directors consider are likely The Board confirms in accordance with yearly trading updates, continue to be the to affect its future development, financial principle C. 2 of the Code that it has maintained primary means by which information about performance and financial position are set out a sound system of internal control, to safeguard the Group, its Board and its business is in the Group Chief Executives review on pages shareholders investment and the Companys communicated to institutional and private 6 to 9 and the Business review on pages 12 assets.
There is an ongoing process for shareholders, investors and analysts.
The material financial and operational identifying, evaluating and managing the other major Company publications are available risks and uncertainties that may impact the significant risks faced by the Group that has to shareholders on the Companys website Groups performance and their mitigation are been in place throughout the year ended www.
The AGM is outlined on pages 26 and 27 and financial risks 30 June 2010 and up to the date of this report, used to enable all shareholders to discuss the including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk which is regularly reviewed by the Board and Groups operations and progress directly with and capital risk are outlined in note 25. accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Directors are available to answer shareholder questions, informally, before and The financial performance of the Group is The Groups system of internal control is after the AGM and the Chairman also invites dependent upon the wider economic designed to manage risks that may impede questions from shareholders during the environment in which the Group operates.
the achievement of the Groups business meeting.
Information of a price sensitive nature As explained in the principal risks on pages 26 objectives rather than to eliminate those risks is communicated as required by the Group and 27, factors that particularly impact upon entirely.
The system of internal control therefore General Counsel and Company Secretary to the performance of the Group include changes provides only reasonable, not absolute, the Company Announcements Office of the in the macroeconomic environment including assurance against material misstatement or London Stock Exchange and the Group strives buyer confidence, availability of mortgage loss.
The system of internal control does, to ensure that all key information is effectively finance for the Groups purchasers and however, provide reasonable assurance that and clearly communicated.
potential problems can be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
In addition to the above formal communications, On 23 September 2009 the Company the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance announced a fully underwritten Placing and The Group operates internal controls to ensure Director meet regularly with institutional Rights Issue, to raise gross proceeds of that the Groups financial statements are investors and analysts in order to convey an 720.5m, and certain amendments agreed in reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
understanding of the Groups operations, the relation to the Groups financing arrangements, A review of the consolidated accounts and market and its management objectives, and in which would come into effect following financial statements is completed by the year under review in excess of 100 such completion of the Placing and the Rights Issue management to ensure that the financial meetings were held.
The aim is to meet with and a reduction in the amount of term debt.
position and results of the Group are major institutional shareholders at least once a The equity issue was completed on 4 November appropriately reflected.
Press releases on the Groups activities are 2009 and the amended financing arrangements made to journalists and the media through the came into effect on 16 November 2009.
Group Press Office and its external PR advisers.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010 42 Governance corporate governance The Board is responsible for the Groups failure of the Groups IT systems: and For each of the risks identified, an assessment system of internal control and for reviewing its iv internal control and risk management has been made of the probability and potential effectiveness.
It is the responsibility of the systems are supported by the Groups impact on the business and these risks are Executive Directors and senior management to internal audit team which is responsible for reported on internally and reviewed during implement and maintain the Groups internal advising senior management, the Executive internal audits and control self assessments.
control and risk management systems in Directors and, through the Audit accordance with policy approved by the Board.
Committee, the Board on the operation On behalf of the Board and effectiveness of those systems.
During the year a Risk Committee has been The internal audit team undertakes a Laurence Dent established.
Subject to the general supervision planned programme of audit appraisals Group General Counsel and of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee across Group operations approved by the Company Secretary is to review the effectiveness of the Group Audit Committee, including full divisional 7 September 2010 companies internal control policies and audits and targeted audits of key risk areas procedures for the identification, assessment such as the land viability process, land and reporting of risks.
acquisition control and monitoring, work in progress and subcontractor payment The Risk Committee consists of standing controls.
Where the internal audit team members comprising the Group Finance does not have the expertise or resources Director, Group General Counsel and required to conduct complex audits they Company Secretary, an Operational Executive use external expertise.
Director and or a Regional Managing Director and the Chief Internal Auditor.
Other members In accordance with principle C. 2.1 of the Code of the Executive, Heads of function and senior the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of managers may be invited to attend meetings the Groups system of internal controls, of the Risk Committee having regard to the covering all material controls including financial, business areas to be discussed.
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
A risk framework has The key aspects of the Groups system of been developed for all business processes by internal control and risk management the internal audit function and approved by the framework are as follows: Audit Committee.
This framework forms the i a clear organisational structure with defined basis of the internal control audit plan for the levels of authority and responsibility for year ahead, which tests if controls are being each operating division: applied effectively in each operating division.
ii extensive financial and management Material issues identified during internal audits reporting systems under which financial and follow-up action plans are reviewed by the and operating performance is consistently Executive Directors and by the Board on a reviewed against budget and forecasts at quarterly basis, and necessary actions are divisional, regional and Group level on a immediately taken to remedy any failings in the monthly basis: internal control system.
iii principal risk areas are embedded in the Groups monthly management reporting During the course of its review of systems of system so that risk identification and the internal control, the Board has not identified control of risk are a routine aspect of nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses management responsibility.
which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary actions These risks include: has not been considered appropriate.
the market, including changes in the macroeconomic environment, sales In addition, the management teams of all and quality of product: operating divisions identify key risks in their liquidity, including the availability of monthly management reports to the Executive sufficient borrowing facilities: Committee and complete a control self people, including the development of assessment twice a year in which they confirm a skilled and experienced workforce: that they have applied appropriate levels of subcontractors and suppliers: control.
The Audit Committee, as a standing securing sufficient land: agenda item every six months, reviews the risk Government regulation, including framework to determine if the system of obtaining planning permission: internal control remains effective and report on construction, including achieving key their findings to the Board.
During the year milestones and the impact on the under review, the Executive Committee environment and social surroundings: prioritised the risk framework by identifying the health and safety: and risks considered most significant to the Group.
Barratt Developments plc AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2010
