40 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report Compliance with the Combined Code The posts of chairman and chief executive are separate and their roles and responsibilities are clearly established, set out The board of Grainger is committed to maintaining high in writing and agreed by the board.
A copy of the written standards of corporate governance, which the directors see statement of roles is available on the groups website as fundamental to effective management of the business www.
co. uk or from the company secretary and delivery of long-term shareholder value.
The governance rules applicable to all UK companies The chairman is responsible for running the board and admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are ensuring its effectiveness.
The chief executive reports to set out in the Combined Code, published by the Financial the chairman, as does the company secretary on matters Reporting Council in June 2003, and revised in 2008.
The chairman is the guardian board fully supports the principles set out in the Combined of the boards decision making.
Code and confirms that it has complied with all of the provisions set out in Section 1 throughout the financial The chief executive is responsible for running the business year ended 30 September 2010. and implementing the boards decisions.
All executive management report to him, directly or indirectly.
In June This report sets out Graingers governance policies and 2010 Peter Couch, the groups chief operating officer, was practices and includes details of how the group applies promoted to the board and continues to report to the chief the principles and complies with the provisions of the executive and be responsible for day-to-day management of Combined Code.
the groups operations in accordance with the strategy and The role of the board business plans set by the board.
The chief operating officer The board provides leadership of the group and, either chairs a monthly operations board meeting made up of the directly or through the operation of committees of directors senior management team.
and delegated authority, applies independent judgement on In September 2010, Nick Jopling and Mark Greenwood matters of strategy, performance, resources including key joined the board as executive property director and finance appointments and standards of behaviour.
The board sets director respectively and have both also joined the monthly the groups strategic objectives and approves and monitors operations board.
business plans and budgets submitted by the executive The non-executive directors are responsible for bringing directors and senior management.
independent and objective judgement and scrutiny to all The written statement of matters reserved to the board is matters before the board and its committees, using their reviewed and approved annually by the board and a copy is substantial and wide ranging experience.
The key available on the groups website www.
co. uk responsibilities of non-executive directors are set out in or from the company secretary on request.
their letters of appointment and include requirements to: Challenge and contribute to the development of strategy: Board composition, structure and roles Scrutinise the performance of management in meeting The board was made up of a non-executive chairman, the agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting chief executive, the chief operating officer appointed to the of performance: and board on 1 June 2010, the property director appointed Satisfy themselves that financial information is accurate to the board on 1 September 2010, the finance director and that financial controls and systems of risk appointed to the board on 13 September 2010 and five management are robust and defensible.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41 A copy of the standard letter of appointment for a nonTwo of the meetings were preceded, the evening before, executive director is available on the groups website by an informal meeting allowing more time to debate issues www.
co. uk or from the company secretary in depth.
Two of the board meetings were held at the on request.
The non-executive directors meet periodically companys head office in Newcastle and four of the without the executive directors present.
There were three board meetings were held in the companys offices in such meetings in the year and an additional meeting of Knightsbridge.
The meeting on 1 July 2010 was held in a the non-executive directors without the chairman or the central London hotel to coincide with a full days meeting of executive directors present.
senior management giving the board the opportunity to engage with key staff on a range of issues.
The senior independent director is Bill Tudor John.
He is available to shareholders if they request a meeting or have The chairman, together with the company secretary, ensures concerns, which contact through the normal channels has that the directors receive clear and relevant information on failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
all relevant matters in a timely manner.
Board papers are No such requests were received from shareholders during circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings for them to be the year.
As senior independent director Bill Tudor John thoroughly digested in advance of the meeting to ensure leads the annual performance review of the chairman.
The board papers contain the chief executives written report, high level papers on each Meetings business area, key metrics and specific papers relating to There were seven meetings of the board in the year.
The board papers are accompanied by a board has a list of matters reserved to it and a rolling annual working papers pack containing detailed financial and other plan of items for discussion, agreed between the chairman supporting information.
The list of reserved matters and The board receives a bi-weekly update throughout the year annual plan are reviewed regularly to ensure all matters and occasional ad hoc papers on matters of particular reserved to the board, as well as other key issues, are relevance or importance.
discussed at the appropriate time.
At each board meeting Throughout the year the board received presentations from the chief executive provided a review of the business, how various business units.
it was performing and strategic issues arising.
In the year the range of subjects discussed included: All directors attended all board meetings subsequent to their respective appointments.
The strategy of the group in response to changing economic conditions: Changes to the board Key business areas, including Germany, retirement As noted above, Peter Couch, Nick Jopling and Mark solutions, residential and funds: Greenwood were each appointed to the board in the The groups debt and capital structure: course of the year.
The groups financial results: The terms of reference of the nomination committee are Dividend policy: available on the groups website www.
co. uk Regulatory and governance issues: and or from the company secretary on request.
Principally, the The development of the groups people.
nomination committee is responsible for filling vacancies on the board, reviewing the continuation of service of directors required to retire by rotation and succession planning.
Due to the relatively small size of the board, matters which are included in the nomination committees terms of reference are often discussed by the board as a whole.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 42 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued Independence members including presentations by executives, visits to business operations and circulation of briefing materials.
The following table sets out the boards duly considered view of the independence of the non-executive directors Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility with reference to the criteria set out at A.
3.1 of the for identifying their training needs and to ensure they Combined Code.
are adequately informed about the group and their responsibilities as a director.
Director Boards determination The board is confident that all its members have the Robin Broadhurst Chairman Independent knowledge, ability and experience to perform the functions Bill Tudor John required of a director of a listed company.
Senior Independent Director Independent Access to independent advice John Barnsley Independent All directors have access to the advice and services of the Robert R. S. Hiscox Independent company secretary who ensures that board processes are Henry Pitman Independent followed and good corporate governance standards are Baroness Margaret Ford Independent maintained.
Any director who considers it necessary or appropriate may take independent, professional advice at The board reviews non-executive director independence the companys expense.
None of the directors sought such on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals advice in the year.
professional characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their contribution to unbiased and Performance evaluation independent debate.
Each year the board undertakes a formal evaluation of The board consisted of a majority of independent nonthe performance of the board, its committees and of executive directors excluding the chairman throughout the individual directors.
The chairman led the process which year.
Biographical details of all the current directors are set was, as in previous years, in the form of a confidential out on page 39. survey completed by all directors in relation to the board and any committee of which they were a member together Time commitment with a one-to-one meeting between the chairman and The board is satisfied that the chairman and each of the each director.
non-executive directors committed sufficient time during the The board considered the merit of using an external year to fulfilment of their duties as directors of the company.
body to undertake the performance evaluation process.
None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of It concluded that the current approach was most appropriate interest which has not been disclosed to the board in given that three executive directors had only joined the accordance with the companys articles of association.
board shortly before the evaluation process occurred, but Professional development that serious consideration would be given to an external process in the next financial year.
The chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training are provided to each director and the company The company secretary collated the evaluation results and secretary organises the induction process and regular these were considered by the chairman and the company updating and training of board members.
Each of the three secretary.
These were positive and indicated that the board, newly appointed executive directors attended internal its committees and individual directors were all operating induction sessions and a half day session of exclusive and effectively.
The chairmans performance was reviewed and specifically tailored induction provided by law firm Freshfields his leadership and performance were considered to have Bruckhaus Deringer.
Training and updating as to the business of the group and No major areas were highlighted for consideration from the legal and regulatory responsibilities of directors was the review but there were recommendations made for provided throughout the year by a variety of means to board continuous improvement in the areas of supply of GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 43 information and improved access to company management and approval.
A fundamental part of the control process is and employees.
the diligent monitoring of actual performance against this budget by the board.
Where applicable, revisions are made Recommendations arising from the 2008 09 evaluation to expected outturn against which further progress can process were implemented in the course of the year.
A detailed management information pack Re-election of directors is prepared monthly which covers each major area of the business and which includes detailed consolidated results The companys articles of association require the directors to and financial information for the business as a whole.
The offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
performance of each business area is reviewed monthly by At the annual general meeting in 2011 both Andrew both divisional management and the operations board and Cunningham the chief executive and Henry Pitman will be is subsequently reported to the board.
In the light of the performance evaluations summarised above the board recommends that The board also discusses in detail the projected financial both directors be re-elected.
impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their financing.
All such proposed substantial Internal control investments are considered by all directors.
Where meetings The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the are required between board meetings and a full complement groups system of internal control and its adequacy and of directors cannot be achieved, a committee of directors effectiveness.
The board is also responsible for the discussion and approval of the groups The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing treasury strategy, including mitigation against changes in and managing its significant risks, which has been in place interest rates.
for the full year under review.
The process is designed to enable the board to be confident that such risks are The groups processes for internal control have been in place mitigated, or controlled as far as possible.
It should be noted throughout the year and accord with the Turnbull guidelines however that no system can eliminate the risk of failure to 2005.
The board regularly reviews the groups processes achieve business objectives entirely and can only provide for internal control and conducts a formal annual review reasonable and not absolute assurance against material of these processes and the risks relating to the business.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review in the year.
The audit committee is delegated the task of reviewing all identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full Audit committee and auditor independence board review.
The audit committee reports to the board The audit committee consisted of John Barnsley as chairman, at every board meeting.
Risks and controls are reviewed Baroness Ford and one other non-executive director to ensure effective management of appropriate strategic, throughout the year.
Henry Pitman was a member of the financial, operational and compliance issues.
The audit audit committee up to 1 January 2010 and Bill Tudor John committee also reviews the half year and full year financial has been a member of the committee since 1 January 2010. statements and holds discussions with the groups auditors.
The audit committee met five times in the year, in each In addition, the group has an internal audit function which case with all members of the committee present save that performs relevant reviews as part of a programme approved Baroness Ford did not attend the meeting in February 2010 by the audit committee.
The committee considers any issues and Bill Tudor John did not attend the meeting in September or risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate 2010.
John Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant actions can be undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
financial experience required by the Combined Code.
The internal audit manager has a direct reporting line to the The terms of reference of the audit committee are available chairman of the audit committee.
on the groups website www.
co. uk or from the A detailed annual budget is produced each year, together company secretary on request.
with longer-term projections in accordance with the agreed strategy, which are presented to the board for consideration GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 44 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report continued In addition to the work referred to in the section Internal During the year, 205,000 was paid by the group to Control above, the audit committee is responsible for  LLP for taxation services.
The audit reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external committee give careful consideration before appointing the auditor, and ensuring this is safeguarded notwithstanding auditors to provide taxation advice and regularly use other any provision of any non-audit services to the group.
providers to ensure that independence and full value for money are achieved.
A further 382,000 was paid for other The board recognises the importance of safeguarding services, the main element of which was 366,000 relating auditor objectivity and has taken the following steps to to work performed in connection with the rights issue.
These ensure that auditor independence is not compromised: fees were one-off in nature and are not expected to reoccur.
The audit committee carries out each year a full evaluation In addition to services provided by  of the external auditor as to its complete independence LLP the group also engaged with other accountancy from the group and relevant officers of the group in all firms during the year for the provision of tax and other material respects and that it is adequately resourced and accountancy services.
technically capable to deliver an objective audit to The audit committee is responsible for reviewing and shareholders.
Based on this review the audit committee reporting to the board on the accounting policies and recommends to the board each year the continuation, practices of the group and on the annual and half-yearly or removal and replacement, of the external auditor: financial reporting process.
The external auditors provide audit-related services such The audit committee reviewed the companys whistleas regulatory and statutory reporting as well as formalities blowing policy and was satisfied that this meets FSA rules relating to shareholders and other circulars: and good standards of corporate governance.
The external auditors may undertake due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax and pension The finance director and external audit partner are invited matters given its knowledge of the groups businesses.
to attend meetings of the committee.
Question and answer Such provision will however be assessed on a case-by-case sessions were held by the committee with members of staff basis so that the best placed adviser is retained.
The audit managing key business areas including treasury, IT and committee monitors the application of policy in this regard the German residential business.
These sessions assist the and keeps the policy under review: committee to question risk in the business and to stay close to staff who have significant control responsibilities.
The audit committee reviews on a regular basis all fees paid for audit, and all consultancy fees, with a view to Once in each year the committee meets with management assessing reasonableness of fees, value of delivery, and without the auditors present and also with the auditors any independence issues that may have arisen or may without management present.
potentially arise in the future: and Relations with shareholders The auditors report to the directors and the audit The company has held over 100 meetings with shareholders, committee confirming their independence in accordance analysts and potential investors in the year in addition to with Auditing Standards.
the usual half-yearly results announcements and briefings.
In addition to the steps taken by the board to safeguard Andrew Cunningham, as chief executive and acting finance auditor objectivity,  LLP operates director, has had the vast majority of these meetings and a five-year rotation policy for audit partners.
manages the groups investor relations programme with the head of corporate affairs.
Feedback is always sought GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 45 following such meetings and is presented to the board as a whole and the board is briefed on the views of major shareholders.
All the directors intend to be in attendance at the annual general meeting and available to answer questions.
The groups website includes a specific and comprehensive Investor Relations section, containing all RNS announcements, share price information, annual documents available for download and similar materials.
All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the annual general meeting, which continues as a route for communication with smaller and private shareholders.
The notice of meeting and annual report and accounts are sent out at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate votes are held for each proposed resolution, including the approval of the remuneration committee report, and a proxy count is given in each case after the voting on a show of hands.
Grainger includes, as standard, a vote withheld category, in line with best practice.
Shareholders are also able again to lodge their votes through the CREST system.
Share capital Details of the major interests in the companys share capital and information relating to the rights issue and the companys share capital are provided in the directors report on pages 54 to 57.
Going concern After making diligent enquiries, including the review of future anticipated cash flows and compliance with banking covenants, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company have adequate resources to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
By order of the board Nick On Company secretary 10 December 2010 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final
