Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:58 Page 39 corporate governance report Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 corporate governance report Board composition The Combined Code 39 The Board currently consists of a Chairman, five executive The Group is committed to applying the highest principles of directors and three independent non-executive directors.
corporate governance and, except where stated, has complied The Chairman, Giles Weaver, has been a non-executive throughout the year with the Code provisions set out in Section I of the Combined Code 2008.
The Group also takes director of Helical since 1993 and was appointed Chairman in July 2005.
He is a Chartered Accountant by training and has into account the corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
had a career in the financial services sector, including as a current and former Chairman or director of several listed The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders for companies in that sector.
The experience he brings to the good corporate governance.
This report and the Directors Group and the skills of leadership and guidance shown in Remuneration Report describe how the Group complies with Board meetings, together with his detachment from day-to-day the provisions of the Combined Code 2008 the Code.
issues within the Group, provide the Board with the necessary comfort that despite his time as a non-executive director, he Board of Directors provides an independent approach to the role of Chairman of Compliance Helical.
Giles Weaver was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until 12 February 2010 when he stepped down Helical has 24 employees, including five executive directors.
It operates with a strong management team of senior from the committee.
He remains Chairman of the Nominations and Appointment Committee.
As Chairman of Helical, Giles decision-makers backed up by finance and other support staff.
Given its size the Board do not consider it appropriate to Weaver offers himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 21 July 2010. operate both a main board and a separate executive committee, a structure commonly seen in larger companies.
However, despite The Senior Independent Director is Antony Beevor who was first its size, the Group is keen to promote exceptional talent to appointed to the Board in April 2000.
He is a solicitor by training Board level at the earliest opportunity to expose such individuals and worked in the City throughout his career, most recently as to the broader issues facing the business, encourage their Head of Corporate Finance at Hambros Bank.
A former long term commitment to the Group and to provide for future Chairman of Croda International Plc, he is currently a Deputy succession.
It is for these reasons that Helicals Board of five Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
He was awarded an MBE in executive directors is larger than those of other listed real January 2010 for services to Fairbridge youth charity.
Beevor is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Code provision A.
3 requires a Board to have a balance of executive and non-executive directors and A.
He has served on the Board for more than nine years and accordingly it has considered whether there are any that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
In the Groups reasons why he should not be regarded as independent.
In the view of the Board, Antony Beevor continues to provide a robustly view, this provision would, given the number of executive directors as noted above, create an unnecessarily large and independent approach to his position as a non-executive director and to his roles as Senior Independent Director and unwieldy Board.
Accordingly, it has long held the view that the appointment of non-executive directors should reflect a desire Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For this reason the Board continues to regard Antony Beevor as an independent nonto add complementary skills and experience to the Board and not be driven by a requirement to match the number of executive executive director.
However, as he has been on the Board for more than nine years and has reached the age of 70, he offers directors, provided always that the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders are adequately protected.
himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The remaining non-executive directors, both of whom are In the Boards view, the current composition of the Board meets the criteria that it is comprised of directors with the independent, are Wilf Weeks, who was appointed to the Board in 2005, and Andrew Gulliford, who was appointed to the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its duties Board in 2006, neither of whom are standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
However, given the requirements of A.
3.2, the Board will continue to keep this matter under review.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, whilst the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Companys business.
The division of responsibilities is clearly established at Helical, is set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman of Helical is Giles Weaver and the Chief Executive is Mike Slade.
Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:58 Page 40 corporate governance report Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 Board responsibilities Structure and capital changes to the Groups capital The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading structure: major changes to the Groups corporate structure: and controlling the Group.
The Board provides entrepreneurial changes to the Groups management and control structure: leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and changes to the Groups listing or plc status.
effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
Financial reporting and controls approval of interim and The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensures that the preliminary announcements: approval of annual report and 40 necessary financial and human resources are in place for the accounts, including the corporate governance statement Group to meet its objectives and reviews management and the directors remuneration report: approval of dividend performance.
The Board sets the Groups values and policy: approval of significant changes in accounting standards and ensures that the Groups obligations to its policies or practices: approval of treasury policies.
shareholders and others are understood and met.
Internal controls ensuring maintenance of a sound system The members of the Board, and the roles of each director are of internal control and risk management.
given in the biographical details of the directors on page 36.
Communication approval of resolutions and documentation All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Group.
to be put to shareholders in general meeting: approval of As part of their roles as members of the Board, non-executive press releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals Board membership and other appointments to senior on strategy and the risk appetite of the Group.
directors scrutinise the performance of management in Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
They satisfy themselves on the Corporate governance matters including directors integrity of financial information and that financial controls performance evaluations.
and systems of risk management are robust and defensible.
Approval of policies including code of conduct: share dealing They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of code: health and safety policy: environmental and corporate remuneration of executive directors and have a prime role in social responsibility policy and equal opportunity policy.
appointing and, where necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
In addition to Boardroom Directors information and professional development discussions, the Chairman contacts other non-executive The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in directors by telephone and, if appropriate, will hold meetings a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge with the non executive directors without the executive its duties and its directors are free to seek any further directors present.
In addition to ad hoc meetings arranged to discuss particular Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys transactions and events and the 2009 AGM, the full Board responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within met on five occasions during the year under review.
The the Board and its Committees and between senior management attendance record of the directors is shown in the table below.
and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating induction The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to and assisting with professional development as required.
The Board controls the business but delegates The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board day-to-day responsibility to the executive management.
through the Chairman on all governance matters.
However, there are a number of matters which are required to The Board ensures that directors, especially non-executive be or, in the interests of the Group, should only be decided by directors, have access to independent professional advice the Board of Directors as a whole.
A summary of the decisions at the Groups expense where they judge it necessary to reserved for the Board is set out below: discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Training is available for new directors and other directors as necessary.
Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: Strategy and management responsibility for the overall All directors have access to the advice and services of the management of the Group: approval of the Groups longCompany Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for term objectives and commercial strategy: approval of ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
annual administration budgets: oversight of the Groups The Group has arranged appropriate insurance cover in operations: extension of the Groups activities into new case of legal action against its directors.
business areas: any decision to cease to operate all or any material part of the Groups business.
Nigel Matthew Giles Michael McNair Gerald BonningJack Antony Wilf Andrew Meetings Weaver Slade Scott Kaye Snook Pitman Beevor Weeks Gulliford Full Board 5 5555 5 5 5 5 Audit Committee n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 2 2 Remuneration Committee 4 n a n a n a n a n a 5 5 5 Nominations and Appointments Committee 2 n a n a n a n a n a 2 2 2 Giles Weaver stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 12 February 2010.
Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:58 Page 41 corporate governance report Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 Directors performance evaluation Nominations and Appointments Committee The Chairman is responsible for the annual evaluation The terms of reference of the Nominations and Appointments process, and will act on its outcome.
This process involves Committee are available by request and are included on the each director submitting an appraisal to the Chairman in Groups website at www.
respect of the performance of the main Board, of each member of the Board and in respect of each Board Committee The membership of the Committee is as follows: 41 of which they are a member.
Giles Weaver Chairman The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent Antony Beevor Wilf Weeks non-executive director, are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account views of Andrew Gulliford executive directors.
Each director completes an evaluation of Directors appointments to the Board the Chairmans performance and provides this evaluation to Appointments are made on merit and against objective the senior independent non-executive director.
Care is taken to ensure that appointees have enough During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its time available to devote to the job.
own performance and that of its Committees and individual The Nominations and Appointments Committee controls the directors in the period and the Chairman reported results of process for Board appointments and makes that evaluation process to the Board.
The evaluation process reiterated previous concerns regarding Directors re-election the balance between the time spent considering the business and time spent on governance issues.
The Board concluded All directors are subject to re-election, after receiving the recommendation of the Nominations and Appointments that Board meeting timetables should be reviewed again to ensure that an appropriate amount of time is devoted to each Committee, every three years and, on appointment, at the first AGM after appointment.
The Nominations and Appointments area.
The Senior Independent Director noted that there were no matters arising from the evaluation of the Chairman that Committee have recommended the re-appointment of the following directors at the 2010 AGM and confirms to necessitated any action or required a meeting to be held without the Chairman present.
Otherwise, there were no shareholders that, following the annual formal performance evaluation, these directors continue to be effective and significant matters arising out of the annual evaluation process which required action by the Board.
demonstrate commitment to their roles: Giles Weaver has served more than nine years on the Board Relations with shareholders and in accordance with the Code offers himself for re-election: The Group values the views of its shareholders and recognises their interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board Antony Beevor has served more than nine years on the membership and quality of management.
It therefore holds Board and has reached the age of 70 and in accordance regular meetings with, and presentations to, its institutional with the Code offers himself for re-election and: shareholders to discuss its objectives.
The Group also regularly Gerald Kaye is due to retire by rotation and offers himself meets, with the help of its brokers, institutions that do not for re-election.
currently hold shares in the Group to inform them of its objectives.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available Biographical details of the directors are given on pages to shareholders, should they wish to discuss matters relating 36 and 39. to the Group.
There were no meetings during the year between The work of the Nominations and Appointments Committee shareholders and non-executive directors.
in the year The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and The Committee met twice during the period and a record of they are encouraged to participate.
The members of the Audit, attendance at these meetings is shown above.
During these Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees meetings the Committee appointed Andy Gulliford as Chairman are available to answer questions.
Separate resolutions are of the Remuneration Committee, in place of Giles Weaver who proposed on each issue so that they can be given proper stepped down from the Committee, and resolved that Giles consideration and there is a resolution to consider the annual Weaver, Antony Beevor, Andy Gulliford, Michael Slade and report and accounts.
The Group counts all proxy votes and will Nigel McNair Scott be recommended to shareholders for indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it re-appointment as directors at the 2009 AGM.
has been dealt with by a show of hands.
Accountability and audit The Group communicates with all shareholders through the issue of regular press releases and through its website at Financial reporting www.
The Group receives regular reports from The Board presents a balanced and understandable sector analysts and its investor relations advisors on how it is assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
It seeks to viewed by its shareholders.
do so in all published information and in particular in interim and preliminary announcements and other price-sensitive reports and reports to regulators as well as in the information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:58 Page 42 corporate governance report Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 Going concern It is common practice at Helical for Audit Committee meetings The directors have reviewed the current and projected to be attended by all Board members who are available, whether financial position of the Group making reasonable or not they are members of the Audit Committee so that their assumptions about future trading performance.
The second and fifth items in the above list were considered in depth at a full Board Meeting The key areas of sensitivity are: at which all Audit Committee members were present.
42 timing and value of property sales Internal control availability of loan finance and related cash flows The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of future property valuation and its impact on covenants internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the and potential loan repayments Groups assets.
Such a system is designed to manage, but committed future expenditure cannot eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business future rental income and potential bad debts objectives.
There are inherent limitations in any control system repayment timing and value of trade receivables and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide The forecast cashflows have been sensitised to eliminate those only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material cash inflows which are less certain and to take account of a misstatement or loss.
further deterioration of property valuations.
From their review The key features of the Groups system of internal control are the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources as follows: to continue to be operational as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
clearly defined organisational responsibilities and limits of authority.
The day-to-day involvement of the executive Audit Committee and auditors directors in the running of the business ensures that these The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available responsibilities and limits are adhered to: by request and are included on the Groups website at www.
financial controls and review procedures: The membership of the Committee is as follows: financial information systems including cash flow, profit and Antony Beevor Chairman capital expenditure forecasts.
The Board receives regular Wilf Weeks and comprehensive reports on the day-to-day running of the Andrew Gulliford business: The Committee endorses the principles set out in the FRC an Audit Committee which meets with the auditors and Guidance on Audit Committees.
deals with any significant internal control matter.
In the year under review the Committee met with the Auditors on two The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for occasions.
considering how it applies the Groups financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate Internal audit relationship with its auditors.
The Board reviewed its position during the year to 31 March 2010 and reaffirmed its stance that in view of the relatively Whilst all directors have a duty to act in the interests of the small size of the Group it does not consider that an Internal Group, the Audit Committee has a particular role, acting Audit function would provide any significant additional independently from the executive, to ensure that the interests assistance in maintaining a system of internal controls.
of shareholders are properly protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
Audit independence Appointments to the Audit Committee are made by the Board A policy of reviewing audit independence has been adopted on the recommendation of the Nominations and whereby non-audit services undertaken by the auditors is Appointments Committee in consultation with the Audit approved prior to work being carried out.
During the year under Committee Chairman.
review non-audit services comprised a review of financial performance as required by the Groups Performance Share The work of the Audit Committee in the year Plan.
The audit committee considers the external auditors to The Audit Committee met twice during the year.
A record of be independent and has satisfied itself of the effectiveness attendance at these meetings is shown on page 40.
The Audit of the external auditors, making use of information available Committee met the external auditors on both occasions to from the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financing Reporting Council.
discuss matters arising from the annual and interim audits, The Groups policy on awarding non-audit work to its auditors and with the executive board members and Chairman, is designed to ensure that the Group receives the most reviewed and approved: appropriate advice without compromising the independence the financial statements of the Group and the Preliminary of the auditors.
Whilst no fee caps or limits have been set Announcement of the annual results to 31 March 2009 by the Committee, the level of fees would be a factor in and the Interim Statement on the half year results to considering whether the auditors independence could be 30 September 2009: affected by the award of non-audit work.
the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: the re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: the external auditors independence and the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: and, Giles Weaver arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, Chairman, on behalf of the Board raise concerns about possible improprieties, the Groups Whistleblowing Policy.
