27 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance report The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically control of the Companys activities and is committed to the highest reserved to it for decision making, although its primary role is to provide standards of Corporate Governance, as set out in the UK Corporate leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Governance Code the Code published by the Financial Reporting Group as a whole.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values Council in June 2010.
It is the Boards view that the Company was fully and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations compliant with the provisions of the Code or its predecessor in force to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board is specifically during the year, save in the brief period to 18 January 2010 before the responsible for: Board was restructured.
approval of Group strategy and its budgetary and business plans: The following section together with the Directors report on pages 24 approval of significant investments, any decision to divest or close to 26 and the Directors Remuneration report on pages 32 to 39 any Group business and capital expenditure: provides details of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
review of performance, assessed against the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: Board composition and balance approval of annual and half year results and interim management Following the restructuring of the Board effective 18 January 2010, statements, accounting policies and the appointment and, subject the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent to shareholder approval, remuneration of the external auditors: Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
approval of the dividend policy and interim dividends and the The restructuring of the Board was designed to streamline recommendation of final dividends: management of the Group and provide an improved focus on changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of decision making.
As a result of this restructuring, three Executive any securities: Directors Rupert Sebag-Montefiore, Simon Hope and Robert McKellar stood down from the Board on 18 January 2010, although establishing the Groups risk appetite, system of internal control, all three continue to be members of the Group Executive Board with governance and approval authorities: unchanged responsibilities.
The Board is satisfied that this restructuring executive performance and succession planning, including the has delivered the targeted benefits of streamlining decision making appointment of new Directors: and and allowing the Board to focus on strategy, risk management and governance.
determining standard of ethics and policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social and community Following the retirement of Fields Wicker-Miurin, who was appointed responsibilities.
to the Board in 2002, from the Board effective 5 May 2010, the Board has comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, three Independent At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the duties Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
above and received updates on the following: financial performance: key management changes: material new projects: financial plans: legal Since the restructuring of the Board effective 18 January 2010, the and regulatory updates, and in particular: Company is in full compliance with the Code which requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Independent concluded its own restructuring effective 18 January 2010: Non-Executive Directors.
reviewed the growth strategy and optimum ownership structure for The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separated.
the Groups Fund Management business, Cordea Savills, resulting The Chairman is responsible for the workings and leadership of the in the Group, with shareholder approval, acquiring the 40% of the Board and for the balance of its membership.
The Group Chief voting rights in Cordea Savills not previously owned by the Group: Executive is responsible for leading and managing the business within reviewed the strategies and policies being pursued to mitigate risks, the authorities delegated by the Board.
particularly those in relation to financial services: and Martin Angle, Timothy Ingram and Charles McVeigh are Independent maintained the Directors conflicts of interests register.
The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no business or One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically devoted other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of to the review and approval of the Groups strategy.
Members of the their judgement.
Group Executive Board joined this meeting to present the proposed strategy of the business for which they were responsible.
The delivery Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram has been the Senior of strategic plans is continually monitored and reviewed by the Board Independent Director.
He is available to shareholders if they have and periodic updates on progress and market developments are concerns which have not been addressed by contact with the presented by the heads of the Groups businesses.
Chairman and or Group Chief Executive.
As well as planned briefings, Directors are also expected to take The biographies of the current Board members appear on pages 22 responsibility for identifying their own individual needs and to take and 23. appropriate steps to ensure that they are properly informed about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
Functioning of the Board The Board has delegated authority to certain committees to carry out The Directors receive management information, including financial, specified objectives as defined by their terms of reference.
Additional operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
information on the responsibility of each of the Board Committees From time to time the Board receives presentations from non-Board appears on pages 29 and 30. members on matters of significance.
The Non-Executive Directors periodically visit different Group companies to gain greater insight into the business.
The Group Company Secretary provides the Board with ongoing reports that cover legal and regulatory changes and developments.
28 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance report continued The individual assessments of each Director confirmed that Board performance and evaluation performance was effective, and the Board subsequently endorsed The Board engaged Linstock Limited Linstock to undertake these assessments and confirmed that the contributions made by an independent evaluation of Board and Board Committee each Director, each of whom, in accordance with the Code, offers performance and to identify areas where performance and procedures themselves for re-election at the AGM on 4 May 2011, continued to might be further improved.
In particular the review considered the be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
following issues: The details of the Directors, are set out on page 22.
Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Linstock have been engaged on a three year programme, so that the Board support, time management and Board Committee review content for each subsequent evaluation is designed to build performance: upon learning gained in the previous year and to allow measurement of year on year progress.
strategic, operational and risk oversight: succession planning and human resource management: and Directors conflicts of interest priorities for change.
From 1 October 2008, Directors have had a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or could have, an interest that conflicts On completion of the review process, Linstock presented a report, or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director considering the key themes and issues raised, and formulated a will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been number of recommendations to further enhance Board effectiveness.
authorised in accordance with the Articles by the other Directors.
The programme of regular presentations by the heads of the Groups The Board has adopted a set of guiding principles on managing businesses to the Board was maintained to ensure that the Board, conflicts and approved a process for identifying current and future following its restructuring, continued to have full visibility over the actual and potential conflicts of interest.
It was also agreed that the performance of each business and to have exposure to management Nominations Committee would review authorised conflicts at least below Group Executive Board level, in particular to support succession annually or if and when a new potential conflict situation was identified planning.
or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2010, actual and A performance assessment of the Non-Executive Directors and the potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director were Group Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman during the subsequently authorised by the Committee, subject to appropriate year.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive conducted a performance conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
review of the Group Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairmans performance, with input from all Directors.
Board meetings During the year the Board held seven scheduled meetings and a separate strategic review to confirm Group strategy.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 7 5 4 2 Attended Attended Attended Attended Non-Executive Directors Peter Smith 7 4 2 Martin Angle 7 5 4 2 Timothy Ingram 7 4 3 2 Charles McVeigh 7 5 3 2 Fields Wicker-Miurin retired 5 May 2010 3 2 2 1 Executive Directors Jeremy Helsby 7 2 Simon Shaw 7 Simon Hope resigned 18 January 2010 Robert McKellar resigned 18 January 2010 Rupert Sebag-Montefiore resigned 18 January 2010 Members of the Group Executive Board The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow open The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each year discussion.
All Directors receive detailed papers in advance of Board without the presence of the Executive Directors and also meet at least meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Directors may attend once a year without the Chairman, at which time the Chairmans by audio or video conference.
When Directors are not able to attend performance is appraised.
Board or Committee meetings, their comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance to the Chairman of that meeting.
29 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance report continued The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the of reference and, where necessary, to obtain external legal or other Board on company law and corporate governance matters and for independent professional advice.
The Committees activities during ensuring that Board procedures are followed, as well as ensuring the year have included: that there is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision reviewing the half year and annual financial statements with making.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services particular reference to accounting policies, together with significant of the Group Company Secretary and through him have access estimates and financial reporting judgements and the disclosures to independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the made therein: Companys expense.
monitoring the financial reporting process: Board committees reviewing management representations made to the external The Board has delegated certain authorities to committees each with auditors: formal terms of reference, which are available on request or on the reviewing the Groups procedures to ensure that all relevant Companys website www.
The membership of each information is disclosed: committee is detailed on page 22.
The principal committees of the Board are as follows: discussing any issues arising out of the half year review or the full year audit with the external auditors in the absence of management Nomination Committee where appropriate : Following the retirement of Fields Wicker-Miurin from the Board with effect from 5 May 2010, the Committee comprises the three making recommendations to the Board with regard to continuing Independent Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: and Group Chief Executive.
The Committee is chaired by the Group overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditor and the Chairman, Peter Smith save in circumstances where the Chairmans effectiveness of the audit process: succession is considered.
The Committee meets at least once a year and met twice during 2010. reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls: The Committee provides a forum to consider Board succession planning, whether to recommend the re-election of a Director and to monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit make recommendations to the Board on certain matters including its function and reviewing all reports prepared by the internal auditors composition, structure, size and balance.
and assessing managements responsiveness to such reports: and The Articles provide that Directors must submit themselves for rereviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal election every three years and that newly appointed Directors must control and risk management systems see pages 20 and 21. submit themselves for reappointment at the first AGM after their Over the last 12 months the Committee in particular considered its appointment.
Notwithstanding the requirements provided by the annual work plan to ensure that this was appropriately focused, Articles, the Board has resolved, consistent with the recommendations oversaw the satisfactory closure of the FSAs Arrow-Lite review of of the Code which applies to financial years starting on or after Savills Private Finance Limiteds processes and procedures which 29 June 2010, that all Directors should stand for annual re-election.
focused on the suitability of mortgage and other regulated products In making recommendations to shareholders for the reappointment resold to clients, and its Treating Customers Fairly protocols and election of any Director, the Nomination Committee considers the reviewed the arrangements for the quality assurance of professional Directors performance and their ongoing contribution to the success work.
The Committee also considered the implications of the UK of the Company and makes its relevant recommendation to the Board.
Bribery Act 2010 and the controls designed to prevent the Group, Audit Committee and or its associates, joint venture partners and agents, breaching the Following the retirement of Fields Wicker-Miurin from the Board with Act.
The Committee will further consider these when the Governments effect from 5 May 2010, the Committee has consisted of the three guidance on the adequate procedures required to mitigate this risk Independent Non-Executive Directors and has been chaired by are published.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the independence The meetings are also attended by the Group Chairman Nonof the external auditors and has established policies to consider the Executive, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the external auditors to Group Financial Controller, representatives from the internal and the perform non-audit services including consideration as to whether the external auditors, Group Director of Audit and Risk, Group Legal auditors are the most suitable supplier of such services.
Director & Company Secretary and other senior executives of the Group by invitation.
Martin Angle has recent relevant financial As detailed on page 26 the external auditors are experience and the Board considers that the members of the Audit  LLP.
The external auditors are responsible Committee collectively have sufficient recent and relevant financial for the annual audit and have also provided certain non-audit services experience to carry out the functions of the Committee.
to the Company, principally advice on taxation matters.
The approval of the Committee is required prior to awarding contracts to the external auditors for non-audit services in excess of 100k.
Below this level the Chairman is kept appraised of new instructions given to the external auditors for the delivery of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by  LLP and the objectivity of the external auditors has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness and continued independence.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to tender the audit work since the audit was last tendered 30 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance report continued in 2000.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner Group Executive Board GEB responsible for the Group audit every five years.
There are no The GEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of Financial Officer, the heads of the Groups businesses and the Group external auditor.
The Auditors report appears on page 41.
Under the leadership of the The provision of internal audit services during 2010 was jointly Group Chief Executive, the GEB is responsible for overseeing the delivered by the Groups internal audit team and KPMG KPMG having development and implementation of strategy, the operational previously provided internal audit services on an outsourced basis.
performance of the Group and other specific matters delegated The Boards responsibility for internal control and risk is detailed on to it by the Board.
Members of the GEB are detailed on page 23.
Globally, all of our businesses have established whistle-blowing Relations with shareholders procedures to enable employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters on a The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular dialogue confidential basis.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer have a regular programme of meetings and Remuneration Committee presentations with analysts and investors, including presentations Following the retirement of Fields Wicker-Miurin from the Board with following the publication of the Companys full and half year results.
effect from 5 May 2010, the Committee has consisted of the three This programme maintains the ongoing two-way dialogue between Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was the Company and shareholders, and helps to ensure that the Board appointed as a Committee member in March 2010.
It is chaired by is aware of shareholders views on a timely basis.
The Board also Charles McVeigh and meets at least three times a year.
The Group receives feedback at least twice each year from its corporate brokers Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and also provides on investors and the markets perceptions of the Company.
The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine Company communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended by all policy on senior executive remuneration and to agree the remuneration the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions packages of the Executive Directors.
The Committee excluding the during the meeting and to meet Directors following the conclusion of Chairman also determines the level of fees payable to the Chairman.
the formal part of the meeting.
In accordance with the Code, the level In addition to the above responsibilities, the Committee in particular and manner of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM considered the renewal of the Groups longer term incentives.
To date, is declared at the meeting and published on the Companys website.
the longer term incentive has been provided through the Executive The Directors aim to give as much notice of the AGM as possible Share Option Scheme 2001.
This Scheme reaches the end of its which will be at least 21 clear days, as required by the Articles.
agreed ten year life span in May 2011 although options granted In accordance with the Articles, electronic and paper proxy pursuant to its terms up to and including May 2011 will continue to appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than be exercisable subject to the satisfaction of the performance 48 hours before a general meeting.
After review, and having considered The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within the the alternatives, it is proposed that the Scheme is replaced by a Companies Act 2006 which allow communications with shareholders Performance Share Plan, details of which are set out in the to be made electronically where shareholders have not requested hard Remuneration report and in the AGM Circular.
Details of the information available for shareholders Given the central part that remuneration plays in the success of the can be found on page 96.
Information about the Company is also Group, in terms of recruitment, motivation and retention of high available on the Companys website www.
quality employees, the Group Chief Executive is consulted on the remuneration packages of the Group Chief Financial Officer and Internal control and risk management Group Executive Board members and attends Committee meetings The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the by invitation.
Groups system of risk management and internal control to safeguard The Committee is advised by Towers Watson and the Group shareholders investments and the Groups assets, and for reviewing Company Secretary.
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid the effectiveness of this system.
However, such a system is designed to the Non-Executive Directors, which are decided by the Executive to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Directors and the Chairman except when his own fee is being objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute discussed.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 32 to Key elements of the Groups system of risk management and internal 39.
The Remuneration report will be put to shareholders at the AGM on control are: 4 May 2011. a comprehensive system for planning and reporting the performance of each operating subsidiary.
The GEB and the Board meet regularly and review the Groups results against plan and the previous year.
The Group regularly reviews performance forecasts.
Clear responsibilities are given to operational and financial managers for the maintenance of effective financial controls and the production of accurate and timely financial management information: the regular review and assessment of the performance of the business including in relation to risk management and internal control by the Board and its subcommittees, including the GEB: 31 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance report continued attendance at operating subsidiary and associate boards by reports from the external auditors on any issues identified during the the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer.
These boards and their associated committees also meet regularly The Board, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal and have formal reporting structures.
Directors of operating control, can confirm that necessary actions have been, or are being, subsidiaries are also closely involved in the day to day business of taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
their respective operations and are tasked with identifying key risks and ensuring that appropriate action is taken to mitigate and Going concern manage these: The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect a Group Risk Management Policy which sets out the process for its future development, performance and position are set out in the identifying, evaluating, assessing and managing the key risks to Business review on pages 6 to 13.
The financial position of the Group, the Groups business objectives, supported by an appropriate its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in organisational structure and clearly defined management the Financial review on pages 14 and 15.
In addition, Note 3 to the responsibilities: financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and a Group Risk Committee which reports to the GEB and is tasked processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management with the review, discussion and challenge of key risks reported, objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: the ongoing Group-wide development of internal control and and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the monitoring of internal audits and other sources of assurance The Group has considerable financial resources, including a 50m on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Committee consists committed revolving credit facility that matures on 31 March 2014, of the Group Chief Financial Officer, senior subsidiary business together with a broad spread of businesses across different management and Group function heads including the Group geographic areas and sectors some of which enjoy stable revenue Director of Audit and Risk, Group Legal Director & Company under contract with a number of customers.
As a consequence, the Secretary and Group IT Director: Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business whistle-blowing procedures available to employees who are risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
concerned about possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear that the Company and the Group have adequate resources of victimisation or reprisal: to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
a programme of assurance activities which assesses the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in effectiveness of our internal controls in respect of our key risks preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
which includes: By order of the Board a programme of internal audits undertaken in accordance with Peter Smith an annual risk based plan approved by the Audit Committee.
Chairman The plan is designed to ensure that internal audit reviews are focused on priority controls across the Group to provide both 16 March 2011 independent review and challenge on the effectiveness of these controls, and the promotion of good practice and consistency in their development: compliance programmes within our regulated businesses in support of the Groups commitment to conduct its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject: and an annual self assessment and certification by management of the existence and effectiveness of the controls within each of our operating subsidiaries.
The results are collated for review and challenge by the Group Risk Committee and onward reporting to the GEB and Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control.
In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee considered the following reports and activities: internal audit reports on the review of priority controls across the Group and the monitoring of management actions arising: managements own assessment of the performance of the system of risk management and internal control during 2010: invitation of key financial and operational managers to present on the operation of the system of risk management and internal control within their businesses: reports from the Group Risk Committee including reporting on Group-wide key risk assessment activity and annual self assessment findings: and
