co. uk 31 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate Ian Menzies-Gow is the Senior Independent Director.
He is available for governance within the Company.
Throughout the year ended consultation by shareholders, whenever appropriate.
He will be retiring 30th November 2010, the Company has complied with Section 1 after the Companys Annual General Meeting on 22nd March 2011.
David of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 Garman will be appointed the Senior Independent Director on that date.
the Code except in relation to the following matters: The Companys Articles of Association provide that all directors are The Code asks the Board to identify each non-executive director it subject to re-election at least every three years.
In addition, all directors considers to be independent.
Of the eight non-executive directors at are subject to re-election by shareholders after their initial appointment.
the end of 2010, the Board considers Bill Shannon, Ian MenziesThe reappointment of non-executive directors is not automatic.
It is Gow, David Garman, Lesley James, Katherine Innes Ker, and John intended that appointments will be for an initial term of three years, Salmon to be fully independent.
The Board recognises that Simon which may be extended by mutual agreement.
Prior to each nonClarke does not meet the criteria for a fully independent director executive director offering himself to the members for re-election his under the Code, although his position as a representative of the reappointment must be confirmed by the Chairman or the Senior Clarke and Leavesley families who together hold 49.1m shares Independent Director in relation to the Chairman in consultation with 24.52% in the Companys issued share capital, gives him a very the remainder of the Board.
strong interest in challenging and scrutinising management to secure excellent performance from the Company.
The Board is supplied with timely and relevant information regarding the business, through regular monthly and ad hoc reports, site visits The Code recommends that all members of the Audit and and presentations from members of the management team and Remuneration Committees are independent non-executive directors.
by meetings with key partners.
Where appropriate, the Company Each of these Committees comprises all of the non-executive provides the resources to enable directors to update and upgrade their members of the Board.
As explained above, Simon Clarke is not a knowledge.
Through the Company Secretary, the Board is informed of fully independent director under the Code, but the Board considers corporate governance issues and all Board members have access via the that its discussions benefit from his involvement in the preparatory Company Secretary to independent advice if required.
detailed scrutiny which takes place in these Committees.
As also noted above, Simon Clarke has a strong interest in challenging and The criteria used for evaluating individual executive directors monitoring managements performance.
performance are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Individual non-executive directors performance is reviewed by the The Code recommends that a chief executive should not go on to be Chairman and Chief Executive.
The performance of the Board as a the Chairman of the same company.
As explained in previous years whole is assessed in the context of the Companys achievement of its annual reports, the Board recommended the appointment of former strategic objectives and total shareholder return targets.
Feedback on Chief Executive, Anthony Glossop, as Chairman of the Board in 2004 the Company is sought through external surveys from shareholders, which was endorsed by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting analysts and other professionals within the investment community that same year.
As of 11th February 2008 Anthony Glossop became following regular briefings, presentations and site visits undertaken by non-executive Chairman.
He will be retiring after the Companys the Company.
This feedback is made available to the whole Board.
Annual General Meeting on 22nd March 2011.
Bill Shannon, who was deemed to be independent on appointment, will take over In support of the principles of good corporate governance, the Board as Chairman.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are has appointed the following Committees, all of which have formal terms carefully differentiated.
of reference which are available for inspection by shareholders and are posted on the Companys website, www.
co. uk: BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES a Audit Committee The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities, which The Audit Committee currently comprises all of the non-executive include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Committee is chaired by John Salmon, who as a former The Board currently consists of the non-executive Chairman, three partner of  LLP, is considered by the Board to executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
The composition have the required recent and relevant experience.
of the Board provides an appropriate blend of experience and qualifications, and the number of non-executives provides a strong base The Companys Finance Director, Financial Controller and Internal for ensuring appropriate corporate governance of the Company.
The Auditor attend Audit Committee meetings but the Committee also Boards decisions are implemented by the executive directors.
meets without management being present and has private sessions with the auditors.
The Committee has direct access to the internal and The Board met 11 times during the year and the Chairman and the external auditors.
non-executive directors also met without the executive directors being present.
The programme of Board meetings is tailored to enable some The Audit Committees functions include: meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
In advance of each Ensuring that appropriate accounting systems and financial controls meeting, each director receives a Board pack containing comprehensive are in operation and that the Groups financial statements comply briefing papers.
Presentations on business and operational issues are with statutory and other requirements.
made regularly to the Board by senior management.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to communicate directly with the executive Receiving reports from, and consulting with, the internal and external directors between formal Board meetings and in addition to these auditors.
regular Board meetings, the Board holds an annual strategy meeting at Reviewing the interim and annual results and reports to shareholders, which it discusses the future direction of the Company as part of the and considering any matters raised by the internal and external auditors.
Considering the appropriateness of the accounting policies of the Group used in preparing its financial statements.
Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 32 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report continued Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
b Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Anthony Glossop as chairman Reviewing and monitoring the independence and objectivity of the of the Committee, Ian Menzies-Gow, John Salmon, Lesley James and Groups external auditors.
Katherine Innes Ker together with David Garman and Bill Shannon who joined on 19th April and 1st November 2010 respectively.
Paul Rigg Monitoring the scope, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the audit.
Monitoring the Groups policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The Committee is responsible for: Making an annual assessment of the external auditors and Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the recommending, or not, their reappointment.
Board and the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees.
Annually reviewing the performance of non-executive directors and Reviewing its own performance, constitution and terms of reference to Board Committees.
ensure it is operating at maximum effectiveness and recommending any changes it considers necessary to the Board for approval.
Recommending and reviewing new appointments to the Board as they become due.
During the year, the Committee was assisted in the performance of these duties by the Companys internal auditor, tasked with auditing the Reviewing and approving Board and Committee succession.
documented internal control procedures and ensuring compliance.
During the year external consultants Zygos Partnerships were engaged to assist in a search for two new non-executive directors to replace The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
Following a rigorous external auditors is that, whilst it is appropriate and cost effective for the assessment process, the Committee recommended the appointments external auditors to provide tax compliance and tax planning services to the of Bill Shannon and David Garman to the Board and they were duly Group, other services should only be provided where alternative providers appointed.
The Committee also endorsed the appointment during the do not exist or where it is cost effective or in the Groups interest for the year of Michael Dunn as Group Finance Director and he was appointed external auditors to provide such services.
In all cases the provision of nonon 1st December 2010. audit services is carefully monitored by, and subject to the prior approval of, the Committee.
The external auditors would not be invited to provide c Remuneration Committee any non-audit services where it was felt that this could conflict with their The composition and functions of the Remuneration Committee are set independence or objectivity.
Such services would include the provision of out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38. internal audit and management consulting services.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE The attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 30th November 2010, was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee C. C. A. Glossop 11 4 2 S. J. Burke 10 T. P. Haywood resigned 26.11.10 11 3 W. A. Oliver 11 4 1 S. W. Clarke 11 3 4 2 L. James 10 3 4 2 K. Innes Ker 10 3 4 2 R. I. Menzies-Gow 11 3 4 2 D. P. Rigg resigned 26.3.
of meetings during the year 11 3 4 2 In attendance, but not a member of the committee.
co. uk 33 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Groups key internal controls are centred on comprehensive monthly The Code recommends that the Board undertake a formal and rigorous reporting from all activities which includes a detailed portfolio analysis, annual evaluation of its own performance.
A formal evaluation, development progress reviews, management accounts and a comparison facilitated by an external assessor, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, of committed expenditure against available facilities.
These matters are was undertaken during 2008-09.
The principal findings of the review reported to the Board monthly, with reasons for any significant variances were that although there had been a significant improvement in risk from budget.
Detailed annual budgets are reviewed by the Board and management, communication with shareholders and stakeholders revised forecasts for the year are prepared on a regular basis.
and a shared sense of vision, areas that required further review were The Group has put in place its own internal audit function.
Internal succession planning and clarity of Board agenda and papers.
audit work is focused on the controls that mitigate the principal risks During 2009-10 a number of changes were made to the composition faced by the Group.
The internal audit reports are prepared for the of the Board, including the appointment of Chairman Designate and executive management and the findings are reported to the Groups Senior Independent Director Designate and the Group Finance Director Audit Committee.
There are clearly defined procedures for the authorisation of capital Evaluations of the Board process continue to be carried out by the expenditure, purchases and sales of development and investment Chairman Designate and Company Secretary and it is intended that the properties, contracts and commitments and a formal schedule of next Board evaluation which is due later in 2011, will be undertaken matters, including major investment and development decisions and externally.
strategic matters, that are reserved for Board approval.
Formal policies and procedures are in place covering all elements of employment, the RISK MANAgEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL construction process, health and safety and IT.
The Board recognises that it has overall responsibility for the Internal control, by its nature, provides only reasonable and not absolute identification and mitigation of risks and the development and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The directors continue, maintenance of an appropriate system of internal control.
however, to strive to ensure that internal control and risk management During the period under review the directors have reviewed: are further embedded into the operations of the business by dealing with areas for improvement as they are identified.
In the year under review, no the effectiveness of the system of internal control in accordance with material loss was suffered by a failure of internal control.
the Turnbull guidance, through the production of a detailed report which covered the Groups control environment: The analysis of the businesss key risks was also reviewed and redefined in the light of current experience.
the manner in which key business risks are identified: The Companys policies with respect to its: the adequacy of information systems and control procedures: and a financial risk management objectives and policies, including the the manner in which any required corrective action is to be taken.
policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used: and b exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cashflow risk, are contained in Note 16 to the accounts.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 34 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report continued Risks and Uncertainties St. Modwen recognises that the identification, assessment, monitoring and response to business risks is essential to the delivery of the Groups objectives.
St. Modwen has policies and procedures in place that are designed to enable the business to manage and mitigate its corporate, operational and financial risks.
This is reinforced by a management structure that seeks to reduce risks in the business.
Risk Area Description of Risk Risk Mitigation Assessment Economic and Property Lack of demand for space from Regional spread and portfolio We have chosen to operate only occupiers or land from housebuilders diversity mitigates sector or location in one geographical area, the UK, restricts business development.
which is subject to relatively lowrisk, low-returns from a stable and Declining rental yields reduce Active portfolio management mature, albeit cyclical economy and profitability and cash flow.
achieves a better than market property market.
By involvement utilisation of assets.
Reduced availability of well funded with all sectors of that economy property purchasers reduces profits Professionally conducted and and that property market, we are and restricts cash flow.
as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Market investment yield movements reduce profitability and affect property portfolio valuations.
Financial Funding constraints restrict growth Recurring income from rental Our cautious approach to forward and development of the business.
provides funding for ongoing commitments, speculative overhead and interest costs.
development and asset disposals Unforeseen significant changes to has enabled us to optimise cash flow requirements limit the Regular and detailed cash flow operational cash flows, and to ability of the business to meet its forecasting enables monitoring of offset the impact of fluctuating ongoing commitments.
performance and management of market conditions.
Headroom is Interest rate changes cause we have once again recorded maintained in high quality banking unforeseen financial loss.
a trading profit in the year, facilities.
demonstrating our ability to Performance against budget is succeed in varying markets.
Our banking facilities have been extended, our gearing reduced and Hedging policy contains interest interest rate risk hedged.
Business Organisation Shortage of skilled and experienced Targeted recruitment with Vacancies are few, and are and People people.
competitive, performance driven generally filled promptly, indicating remuneration packages.
the attractiveness of the Company Poor succession planning.
To Succession planning reviewed at IT failure prevents business support the long-term financial Board level.
objectives, we will need to continue Dedicated IT team monitor to improve the skills of our performance of all information employees.
With improving economic conditions, pension contributions, payment of bonuses and modest salary increases have been reintroduced.
Failure to Secure Poor market intelligence on Regional offices in touch with The excellent reputation and Appropriate Schemes schemes or competitors prevents their local market.
restored financial capacity of successful bids or causes the the Company have enabled us to Dedicated central resource to selection of inappropriate win a number of schemes and support regional teams.
to grow the hopper to record Flexible and innovative approach levels, even in the current Lack of availability of finance to acquisitions and schemes  climate.
limits potential scheme in order to adapt as market We anticipate that the number development.
of opportunities will increase as vendor expectations become Inaccurate reputation with Financial headroom maintained to more realistic and lenders begin clients reduces ability to secure provide flexibility.
to address the issues in their schemes.
Projects, acquisitions and loan books.
In this environment, disposals are reviewed and with a reduced number of active financially appraised within competitors, we expect to be able clearly defined authority limits.
to continue to source attractive Business wide PR programme in acquisitions.
co. uk 35 Risk Area Description of Risk Risk Mitigation Assessment Construction Financial or reputational damage Strong internal construction The Company is willing to accept from inappropriate quality or management team.
contamination risk, enabling Use and close supervision of higher returns to be made for the Inaccurate initial project a preferred supply chain of perceived higher risks undertaken.
assessments of contamination, high quality trusted suppliers These risks are passed on or development cost or contractor and professionals, including minimised where possible, but status prevent effective delivery assessment of their financial cannot be eliminated.
In our causing financial loss.
recent experience, the residual risks have been acceptably low.
Lack of trusted contractor and Clearly defined formal tender sub-contractor resources available process that evaluates qualitative In current markets there is an for increased post-recession and quantitative factors in bid increased risk of contractor activity.
Our panel of contractors Proven experience of completing is assessed for stability and schemes successfully despite suitability but is not immune contractor failure.
Using a sufficiently broad mix of contractors, for whom our work is important, mitigates the impact of a single failure.
Reputational Difficulty in securing appropriate Monthly review of performance The Company enjoys an excellent partnerships and schemes if to identify if senior management reputation with its stakeholders reputation with influential third intervention is required.
including investors, business parties negatively affected.
This Regular feedback obtained from is based on, and reinforced by, Investor perception damaged.
a strong set of principles and Recruitment and retention of key consistent delivery of promises.
The very nature of our business, however, means that there will always be an element of local controversy, thus exposing us to reputational damage.
Regulatory Planning regime changes Use of high quality professional Our daily exposure to all aspects limit ability to secure viable advisers.
of the planning process, and permissions.
internal procedures for spreading Compliance training programmes best practice ensure we remain Lack of compliance with complex in place.
tax regulations causes financial Programme of regular high level We have become more active loss.
meetings with influential public in attempting to influence bodies.
public policy debate, although meaningful and beneficial changes are very difficult to bring about, notwithstanding the formalities of extensive public consultation.
Social, Ethical and Serious injury or death of an Performance indicators are We continue to remain vigilant on Environmental employee, a client or a member of reviewed monthly.
assessment of environmental costs Defined business processes and the subsequent optimising Environmental pollution leading and authority levels to manage of remediation solutions is an to financial penalties or loss of transactions.
integral part of our acquisition reputation.
Any issues dealt with openly and and post-acquisition procedures.
Inappropriate ethical or business promptly.
We seek to minimise or pass on behaviour causing legal risks or any such environmental risks, loss of reputation.
and believe that the residual risk in this respect is acceptably low.
In other social and ethical areas, the Company has benefited from the underpinning of a simple but rigorous set of operating commitments.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 36 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance report continued PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES REAPPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS The Company acts as the holding company of a group of property The directors listed on pages 28 to 29 constituted the Board during investment and development companies.
A list of the subsidiary and the year.
David Garman and Bill Shannon, having been appointed since associated undertakings affecting the profit or net assets of the Group the last Annual General Meeting AGM, offer themselves for election.
are included in Note F to the Company Financial Statements.
Anthony Glossop and Ian Menzies-Gow will retire from the Board and are not seeking re-election.
Michael Dunn, who was appointed BUSINESS REVIEW Director on 1st December 2010, will also offer himself for election.
In The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to include a accordance with a new provision included in the Governance Code, all business review in this report.
This information can be found on pages other directors will seek re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
08 to 19, which is incorporated in this report by reference.
Although this provision of the Governance Code would not apply to the Company until the financial year ending 30th November 2011, the DIVIDENDS Board has decided to comply this year.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 2p per ordinary share to be paid on 4th April 2011 to ordinary shareholders on the register on 11th DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS March 2011 which, together with the interim dividend of 1p paid on No contract existed during the year in relation to the Companys 6th September 2010, makes a total of 3p for the year 2009: nil.
business in which any director was materially interested, with the exception of those detailed in Note 21.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN ORDINARY SHARES The interests of the directors in the issued share capital of the QUALIFYINg THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY PROVISIONS Company, are shown below: As at the date of this report, there are qualifying third party indemnity provisions governed by the Companies Act 2006 in place, under which 30th November 30th November the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, former directors 2010 2009 and the Company Secretary of the Company, directors and former Beneficial directors of any member of the Group or of an associated company or S. J. Burke 174,643 112,123 affiliate company and members of the Executive Committee, to the S. W. Clarke 6,112,657 7,122,657 extent permitted by law and the Articles against all liability arising in C. C. A. Glossop 1,708,792 1,757,292 respect of any act or omission in their duties.
In addition the Company T. P. Haywood resigned on 26.11.10 155,324 has in place Directors and Officers liability insurance for each officer L. James 10,000 10,000 of the Company and its associated companies.
10 2,812 It is the Groups policy to agree specific payment terms for its business J. H. Salmon 25,000 18,000 transactions with its suppliers and to abide by those terms whenever D. Garman appointed 19.4.
10 10,000 it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods and services in W. M. F. C. Shannon appointed on 1.11.10 40,000 accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
Non-beneficial During the year ended 30th November 2010 trade creditors represented C. C. A. Glossop 180,000 180,000 an average of 32 days purchases 2009: 31 days.
This has been calculated by expressing year end creditors as a fraction of purchases Mr. M. E. Dunn who was appointed as Group Finance Director on made in the year, and multiplying the resulting fraction by 365 days.
1st December 2010, held 30,000 shares on 30th November 2010.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The above interests do not include shares held under the share option Details of the Groups Key Performance Indicators can be found on page schemes described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 18.
39 to 41. gOINg CONCERN There has been no change in these beneficial interests between In consideration of the basis of going concern, the directors have 30th November 2010 and the date of this report.
considered the factors described in the Business Review and reviewed SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS the Groups future cash forecasts and valuation projections, which the As at 4th February 2011 the Company had been notified of the directors believe are based on realistic assumptions.
following interests in more than 3% of its issued share capital: On these grounds the Board has continued to adopt the going concern Number of Percentage of basis for the preparation of the financial statements.
Ordinary Ordinary EMPLOYEES Shareholder Shares Held Share Capital The Group encourages employee involvement and places emphasis J. D. Leavesley and connected parties 18,543,382 9.25% on keeping its employees informed of the Groups activities and Lady Clarke and family holdings performance.
The Companys executive runs quarterly management excluding S. W. Clarke 24,462,539 12.21% meetings at which staff are informed about information affecting them Aberforth Partners 14,429,368 7.20% as employees, where their feedback is sought on decisions likely to Co-operative Asset Management 9,640,359 4.81% affect their interests, and where a common awareness is achieved of the Morgan Stanley Investment Management 9,533,648 4.76% financial and economic factors affecting the Companys performance.
Kempen Capital Management 9,515,186 4.75% This information is then cascaded to staff at the Companys head office BlackRock 7,520,923 3.75% and regional offices.
A performance related annual bonus scheme CBRE Global Real Estate Securities 7,269,244 3.63% and share option arrangements are designed to encourage employee AXA Investment Managers 7,182,457 3.58% involvement in the success of the Group.
co. uk 37 The Group operates a non-discriminatory employment policy under ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS which full and fair consideration is given to disabled applicants, to Each year the Company produces and posts annual reports to all of its the continued employment of staff who become disabled, and to shareholders, at considerable cost to the Company and the environment.
their continued career development and promotion.
It is the policy In an effort to reduce the cost and the environmental burden and of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of provide instant access, the Board has agreed to make more use disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other of electronic and website communication.
documentation will continue to be published directly on our website www.
Shareholders will be notified by email or post The Group operates a pension scheme which is open to all employees each time a document is published on the website and how to find it.
see Note 18 of the financial statements.
The interim management statements will continue to be available via the website.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Company did not make any political donations in the year.
Details Shareholders who prefer to receive a printed copy will be able to elect of the Companys charitable activities are included in the CSR review.
to do so those who have elected to receive a printed copy already will Direct charitable donations during the year, excluding donations made continue to do so.
Shareholders who have elected to receive electronic by the St. Modwen Environmental Trust, totalled 12,000 communications can at any time change their election and require the 2009: 14,000.
Company to send them a paper copy of any document or information which has been posted on the Company website.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The executive directors have a programme of meetings with institutional Although electronic communications will become the default option, shareholders and analysts at which the Companys strategy and the Company reserves the right to send printed documents by post, most recently reported performance are explained and questions should the information be more suited to that format.
If the Company and comments made are relayed to the whole Board.
Visits are also is required to restrict the sending of any documents or information to arranged to sites of particular interest or significance to assist investors any shareholder due to the local laws of the jurisdiction in which the understanding of the Companys business.
The Companys Annual shareholder is resident or located and as a result, the Company is not General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to communicate with permitted to use electronic means to communicate with shareholders, it private investors.
In addition to the usual period for questions which is will send hard copies of the documents or information.
made available for shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, John Salmon, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Lesley James, the BUSINESS STANDARDS Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, will be available to answer The Company does not condone any form of corrupt behaviour in appropriate questions.
Any matters of concern regarding the Company business dealings and has disciplinary procedures in place to deal with are discussed by the Senior Independent Director with shareholders or any illegal or inappropriate activities by employees.
appropriate corporate governance bodies and comments are fed back by him to the whole Board.
Copies of all press releases, investor presentations and Annual Reports are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk, together with additional details of major projects, key financial information and company background.
The number of proxy votes cast in resolutions is announced at the Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website.
To simplify and encourage participation in voting on resolutions at our Annual General Meeting, the Company provides the opportunity to vote electronically through CREST for further details see pages 92 and 93.
In addition, shareholders will also be able to appoint a proxy electronically via the Company Share Registrars website, www.
