Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 42 Corporate governance statement non-executive directors with effect Combined Code These matters include:  from1st March 2010, and the retirement group strategy, business objectives, of John Burns with effect from The Combined Code on Corporate long-range plans and annual budgets: 23rdSeptember 2010.
Details of the Governance 2008 edition sets out annual and interim results, and interim non-executive directors, are set out guidance in the form of principles and management statements: onpage 41.
Their biographies reflect provisions on how companies should be dividend policy: asuitable breadth of strategic, directed and controlled to follow good appointment removal of directors management and financial experience governance practice.
The Financial and company secretary: in a range of multinational companies.
Services Authoritys listing rules require material acquisitions, disposals the company to explain how it has andcontracts: Description Balance applied the Main Principles in Section 1 major changes to the groups internal Period ofchange ofboard of the Combined Code throughout controls or to its risk management 1st January Non-executive 2010.
This report, together with the orfinancial reporting policies and 27thFebruary chairman report on directors remuneration, procedures: 2 executive sets out how the company has done major changes to the groups capital, directors so.
Thelisting rules also require the corporate or management structure: 4 non-executive company to confirm that it complied remuneration policy for senior directors throughout 2010 with the detailed executives: 28th February Resignation of Philip Rogerson provisions in Section 1 of the Combined shareholder circulars and and Ren Code and, if it did not do so, to provide prospectuses: Schuster relevant details.
setting standards for ethical 1st March Appointment Non-executive behaviour: and It is the boards view that the of Iain chairman treasury policy and significant company has fully complied with the Ferguson, 2 executive fundraising.
David Lowden provisions inSection 1 of the Combined directors and Andrew Code on Corporate Governance Matters which are outside the scope 5 non-executive Wood of the schedule of matters reserved for directors throughout 2010. the board are decided by executive 23rd Resignation of Non-executive Further information on the Combined September John Burns chairman management.
Code can be found on the Financial 2 executive Reporting Councils website at directors Composition www.
uk 4 non-executive During 2010, the board comprised the directors Role of the board non-executive Chairman Christopher The board considers that during 2010 Kemball, the Chief Executive Peter The board is responsible for providing the non-executive directors provided Ventress, the Finance Director Kevin effective leadership and direction in a solid foundation for good corporate Quinn and at least four non-executive order to deliver value to shareholders governance for the group, ensuring directors.
In the boards view all and stakeholders over the long term.
that no individual or group dominated non-executive directors during 2010 The principal role of the board is to the boards decision-making, and were independent of management set the parameters within which the that this will remain the case for 2011. and had no relationships which would group seeks to further the interests Collectively, the non-executive materially interfere with the exercise of its shareholders and to monitor the directors have brought a wide range of of their independent judgement.
performance of the executives to whom international experience and expertise it delegates the management of the On 1st January 2010 Peter Ventress was to the board and will continue to do so.
appointed as Chief Executive on the business.
Although it does not involve All the non-executives occupy or have itself with the day-to-day activities retirement of Roger Dye.
The company occupied senior positions in industry.
announced the retirement from the of management, the board does have Consequently, they are able to a formal schedule of matters that are board of Philip Rogerson and Ren contribute significantly to board Schuster with effect from 28th February reserved for its own decision.
2010, the appointment of three new How the board spent its time in 2010: Balance of non-executive directors Length of tenure of non-executive directors and executive directors 31st December 2010 31st December 2010 1 Strategy formulation, 1 Chairman 1 1 03 years 3 1 1 1 implementation 5 2 Executive 2 46 years 1 and monitoring 25% 2 directors 2 3 79 years 0 2 Performance 2 3 Independent 2 4 monitoring 20% 4 More than non-executive 9 years 0 3 Governance directors 4 3 and risk 25% 3 4 Non-independent 4 Meeting country non-executive management directors 0 site visits 20% 5 Other 10% Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 43 As in previous years, during 2010 the Chairman and Chief Executive Information flow board met senior management teams The roles of the Chairman and the Formal board meetings are held six at group locations.
This was achieved Chief Executive are separately held and times a year.
Prior to each board through site visits to Dorsten, Germany the division of their responsibilities is meeting an agenda, together with in May 2010 and Dublin, Eire in clearly established, set out in writing supporting papers, is circulated to September 2010.
These comprehensive and agreed by the board.
directors to ensure they are supplied sessions gave board members detailed with all the necessary information.
The Chairman, Christopher Kemball, insight into the operations of our Included with these papers are detailed businesses, their challenges and is responsible for the leadership of the monthly accounts, together with board, ensuring its effectiveness by opportunities.
These meetings and reports from the Chief Executive, subsequent follow-up are representative creating and managing a constructive Finance Director and the Managing relationship between the executive and of the free flow of information and Directors of the Nordic, Continent and communication between the board and non-executive directors.
His role is to UK Ireland regions.
After each board promote a culture of challenge and the senior management teams within meeting, there is a comprehensive the group.
Similar sessions have already debate, making sure that the board has follow-up procedure by the Company the appropriate balance of skills and been scheduled for 2011.
Secretary to ensure that actions are experience in order to carry out its completed as agreed by the board.
The Company Secretary manages the duties.
Although it is the responsibility Briefing packs are also circulated provision of information to the board in of the Chief Executive and Finance in months where board meetings are connection with formal board meetings Director to engage with shareholders not scheduled.
These briefing packs and at other appropriate times, in on a day-to-day basis, the Chairmans ensure that the non-executive consultation with the Chairman and role includes maintaining an overview directors are kept well informed Chief Executive.
In addition to formal of such matters.
of the latest issues affecting the group.
meetings, the Chairman and Chief Peter Ventress, the Chief Executive, is The information provided to the board Executive maintain regular contact responsible for leading and managing will be reviewed during the first half of withall directors.
the business within the authorities 2011 to ensure it reflects the revised The Chairman also holds informal delegated by the board.
strategy of the new organisation meetings with non-executive directors, structure effective 1st July 2011. without executives being present, to He is accountable for: the overall performance and management of The Chief Executive and the Finance discuss any issues affecting the group.
Director ensure that the board is kept the group: the development of group strategy for approval by the board: fully aware on a timely basis of business issues and prospects throughout the ensuring that the board is fully informed on all important matters: succession group.
Both are directors of Sunlight Service Group, the holding company of planning for key management roles: andCorporate Responsibility.
our UK trading businesses, and attend bi-monthly UK Ireland board meetings, Between board meetings there is as well as having frequent less formal regular interaction between the Chief contact with Sunlight board members.
Executive and the Chairman and, where They are also directors of Sophus required, with other board members.
Berendsen A S, the management company of our Nordic and Continent Senior independent director businesses, and, as well as attending Iain Ferguson, our Senior Independent bi-monthly Nordic and Continent board meetings, they periodically attend Director, plays an important role on the board.
He is an experienced and trusted individual country board meetings, thereby meeting the management sounding board for the Chairman and Chief Executive, while also acting as teams of each operation.
The key issues raised at these meetings are brought to a communication channel between the Chairman and non-executive directors the attention of the board.
Also, as with the UK Ireland region, frequent less and shareholders, when necessary.
formal contact is maintained with Nordic and Continent board members.
Non-executive director Chairman Non-executive director Chairman industry background experience previous positions 1 CEO listed plc 2 1 Business 1 1 services 1 2 CFO listed plc 1 2 FMCG 1 4 5 3 CEO 2 large group 1 3 Industrial transportation 1 4 Partner 3 4 professional 4 Logistics 2 3 services 1 distribution 1 5 Financial Advisory 1 Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 44 Corporate governance statement continued The main areas the board focused on during 2010 were: Strategy formulation, Met with the Berkeley Partnership, the consultants appointed to advise on the 2010 implementationand monitoring group strategy review Received regular updates from the Chief Executive on progress ofthe2010 strategy review Attended an additional board meeting on 11th August 2010 to review andchallenge the output from the 2010 strategy review Reviewed and approved the disposal of Bjrnklder on 1stDecember 2010 Reviewed and approved the purchase of ISSs washroom business in Scandinavia on 20th December 2010 Received a competitor analysis presentation from the newly appointed Director ofBusiness Development Performance monitoring Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Executive and the Regional Managing Directors onthe key issues affecting the business Reviewed monthly reports from the Finance Director on performance against budget and forecast Reviewed reports from the Finance Director on the financial position ofthe group, which included treasury management Reviewed regular reports from the chairman of the audit committee on matters discussed at audit committee meetings Approved the full year and half year results for the group Reviewed reports on peer group comparison of results following the release of preliminary and half year results Made recommendations regarding the 2009 final dividend andapproved the 2010 interim dividend Approved the groups budget for 2011 and long-range plan to 2013 Approved the medium-term plan Governance and risk Reviewed reports on governance issues, including changes arising from the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and updates on changes in company law Approved the appointment of Iain Ferguson, David Lowden and Andrew Wood Reviewed regular reports and KPIs on health and safety and corporate social responsibility issues Reviewed and approved the groups guidelines on anti-bribery and corruption inadvance of the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2010 Reviewed the effectiveness of the board following the 2010 board evaluation Performed regular reviews of the significant risks affecting the group Received reports from each of the board committees chairman Meeting country management Non-executive directors induction programme involved site visits and meeting site visits management in Denmark, Netherlands and the UK Attended regular meetings with the executive board Met the German workwear management team on 10th 11thMay 2010 Met the Irish management team on 22nd 23rd September 2010 Other Reviewed reports from brokers on shareholder feedback from meetings with the ChiefExecutive and Finance Director Non-executive directors dinner with institutional investors on 8th December 2010 Approved the 2010 Annual Report Made preparations in respect of the 2011 Annual General Meeting Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 45 To strengthen the independence of Induction and continuing Re-election professional development the non-executive directors and to Under the companys Articles of enable them to discuss more freely the There is a formal induction programme Association all directors are subject to performance of the groups executive for all new non-executive directors re-election to the board every three management, the Chairman meets covering matters such as the operations years.
Any director appointed by the formally with the non-executive and activities of the group including site board during the year will also stand directors at least once each year visits and meeting members of the for appointment by shareholders without the executives being present.
senior management teams, the groups at the next Annual General Meeting.
The 2010 meeting was held on key financial and non-financial risks, The board has discussed the 15th November.
therole of the board and the matters requirement of the UK Corporate reserved for its own decision, and the Governance Code for all directors to The independence of the directors responsibilities of the groups board offer themselves for re-election on an isfurther supported by the work committees.
The induction programme annual basis and annual re-election for oftheCompany Secretary whose for Iain Ferguson, David Lowden and all directors will be effected from the appointment and removal is the Andrew Wood commenced in April, April 2012 Annual General Meeting.
responsibility of the board as a whole.
involved site visits and meetings The Company Secretary, who is also with senior management in Denmark, Board independence secretary to the audit, nomination and Netherlands and the UK, and was remuneration committees, ensures that In December 2010, the nomination completed in June 2010. board procedures are complied with committee performed a thorough and provides advice on corporate The Chairman is responsible for review of the independence of the governance and regulatory compliance.
ensuring that all non-executive non-executive directors.
All directors have unrestricted access to directors receive ongoing training and The committee concluded that all the advice and services of the Company development in order that they can four non-executive directors remain Secretary.
There is also an agreed appropriately perform their duties.
independent from management and procedure by which directors can, Training and development needs provide a strong independent element where necessary for the discharge were discussed at the non-executive on the board, being free from any of their duties, obtain independent directors meeting on 15th November business or other relationship which professional advice at the companys 2010 and, where appropriate, during could materially interfere with the expense.
No director made use of this the annual evaluation of each director.
Each non-executive director currently serving on the board has confirmed To safeguard their independence, Per Utnegaard has served on the directors are not entitled to vote on any board for six years and as a result that in 2010 they have kept themselves properly briefed and informed on matter in which they have a material the board has in particular reviewed personal interest unless the directors theextent to which he remains current issues.
unanimously decide otherwise and, independent.
Following this review, where necessary, directors are required the board are of the view that he to absent themselves from a meeting continues to demonstrate strong of the board while such a matter is independence incharacter and being discussed.
judgement and in themanner in which he discharges hisresponsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board is satisfied that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management that could compromise his independence and that therefore he remains independent.
Case study: Case study: Germany Ireland The board visited Dorsten in Germany The board visited Dublin in Ireland on on 10th 11th May 2010.
The agenda included 22nd 23rd September 2010 in order a site tour of our Dorsten workwear facility, to ascertain how our Spring Grove operation presentations from the German workwear was coping with the downturn in the Irish management team on their operations and economy.
Thevisit included visits to an update on the integration of the Klarner our Stillorgan and Pottery Road plants.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 46 Corporate governance statement continued Attendance at meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, and board visits to Germany and Ireland, the board met eight times during 2010.
One of these meetings was held on the 11th August 2010 specifically to review and challenge the strategy review prepared by management.
In addition, as referred to above, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors on 15th November 2010.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2010 is detailed below.
Board and committee Committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings committee committee committee Total number of meetings 8 3 4 2 Executive directors: P J Ventress CEO Nom No 8 8 2 2 K Quinn FD No 8 8 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball Nom, Rem No 8 8 4 4 2 2 I G T Ferguson Nom, Rem Yes 7 7 3 3 1 1 D S Lowden Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 7 7 2 2 3 3 1 1 P H Utnegaard Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 7 8 3 3 3 3 2 2 A R Wood Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 6 7 2 2 4 4 1 1 Former directors: P G Rogerson Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 R H Schuster Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 J D Burns Nom Yes 4 6 1 1 Excluding non-executive directors meetings and site visits Resigned 28th February 2010 Resigned 23rd September 2010 Andrew Wood was unable to attend the meeting on 24th June due to a vacation booked prior to joining the company as a non-executive director Procedures to deal with directors conflicts of interest The board has put procedures in place to deal with situations where a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of these procedures, the board: considers each conflict situation separately based on its particular facts: considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their duties under the Companies Act 2006: keeps records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
The board has complied with these procedures during the year.
Performance evaluation A comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and each of its directors is carried out individually.
For 2010 evaluation the process was led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
As in previous years, the views of all directors were canvassed in respect of the performance of the board as a whole and of its committees.
Each director was also asked to assess the strengths and weaknesses of his individual contribution to the boards performance.
The board also engaged the services of Lintstock, an independent governance consultancy, to assist in the formulation and distribution of the questionnaires and to help in the collation and analysis of the results.
Amongst other things, the assessment focused on the boards: contribution to the testing and development of group strategy: understanding of, and contribution to, the groups risk management: oversight of the risks and opportunities inherent in the management of the group: performance assessments of the executive board: relationships with senior management: and alignment of executive remuneration with shareholders interests.
This process was complemented with separate meetings between each director and the Chairman where feedback was discussed.
The evaluation of the Chairman himself was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the exercise described above, the executive directors are evaluated in respect of their executive duties througha separate process whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the Chief Executive and the ChiefExecutive assesses the Finance Director and the other members of the executive board.
The full results of the board evaluation were initially discussed at the non-executive directors meeting on 15th November 2010 and then presented to the board on 17th December 2010.
The directors have concluded that, following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing to the overall Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 47 effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board has identified a number of areas in which further improvement is required.
The Chairman has considered the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of performance and external board evaluation every three years.
The board has agreed to such an evaluation being carried out within the next two years.
Board performance evaluation 2010 objectives 2010 achievements Assisting and supporting the new Chief Executive Completed the induction of our new Chief Executive, PeterVentress, by March 2010 Regular scheduled meetings between the Chairman and ChiefExecutive The induction of the three new non-executive directors Detailed induction programme prepared and completed byJune 2010 Increased focus on management development Interim Human Resources consultant recruited to review and talent management andmake recommendations in respect of the current management development and talent management programmes.
Decision taken to appoint a permanent HumanResources senior manager in early 2011 Improved interaction between the board The board has been actively involved in the strategy review and senior management performed by the executive board during 2010, and Regional Managing Directors attended and presented at three board meetings during 2010 For 2011 the board set the following performance objectives for itself: R Supporting the Chief Executive and executive team in communicating and executing the new strategy: R Ensuring that executive remuneration for 2012 is aligned with the new strategy and business structure: R Repositioning on a timely basis the manage for value businesses in line with the new strategy: and R Ensuring increased focus on talent management and succession planning.
Role of the executive board The executive board sits at the apex of managerial decision-making within the company.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive, Peter Ventress.
The other members are: the Finance Director, Kevin Quinn, the three Regional Managing Directors, Christian Ellegaard, Peter Havus and Steve Finch, and the Company Secretary, David Lawler.
In addition to regular and ad hoc communication between members, during 2010 the executive board met formally eight times and between these meetings held regular conference calls, in particular to discuss the strategy review and, in the last quarter of 2010, its implementation.
The members of the executive board have collective responsibility for the day-to-day running of the groups business.
They develop the groups strategy and budget for board approval and monitor the financial, operational and service performance of the whole group.
They review the group risk register, allocate resources across the group within plans agreed by the board, plan and initiate major cross-business programmes, oversee development plans for the senior talent base and succession plans for the group.
The executive board Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn David A Lawler Chief Executive Finance Director Company Secretary See biography on page 41 See biography on page 41 See biography on page 41 Christian Ellegaard Peter Havus Steve Finch Regional Managing Director Regional Managing Director Regional Managing Director Christian joined the group in 1993 and was Peter was appointed Managing Director for Steve was appointed Managing Director appointed Managing Director of the Nordic the Continent Region in 2007.
He joined the of the Sunlight Service Group in 2001 having Region in 2007 having held a number of group in 1985, and has held a number of joined the group through the acquisition senior posts, including Managing Director senior posts, including Managing Director of Spring Grove Services in 1996 where in Denmark.
Christian holds a B. Sc in Sweden, Managing Director Denmark he held the position of Commercial Director.
Economics and Business Administration and Chief Operating Officer.
He started Prior to joining Spring Grove in January 1995 from the Copenhagen Business School his career in the Textile Rental Industry he spent 25 years in the telecommunications and a MBA from Monterey Institute in Sweden in 1983.
Peter holds a degree industry, more latterly as Sales Director of International Studies.
in Hutchison Telecom now Orange.
Steve holds an Executive MBA from Bath University.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 48 Corporate governance statement continued Board committees The three principal committees of the board are the audit committee, the nomination committee and the remuneration committee.
Their membership during 2010 was as follows: Audit committee Andrew Wood chairman Philip Rogerson chairman David Lowden Ren Schuster Per Utnegaard Nomination committee Christopher Kemball chairman Philip Rogerson Iain Ferguson Ren Schuster David Lowden John Burns Per Utnegaard Peter Ventress Andrew Wood Remuneration committee Per Utnegaard chairman Philip Rogerson Iain Ferguson Ren Schuster Christopher Kemball David Lowden Andrew Wood Resigned 28th February 2010 Resigned 23rd September 2010 Audit committee report The board considers that the committee Functions chairman has sufficient recent and The audit committees principal function Composition relevant financial experience to is to enable the board to monitor the The audit committee met three times discharge the committees duties.
integrity of the groups financial reports during 2010 in February, August and In particular, Andrew Wood is a and to manage the boards relationship December.
Up to 28th February 2010 Chartered Management Accountant with the groups external auditors.
Its the committee comprised Philip and was a Group Finance Director other functions include: reviewing and Rogerson committee chairman of a FTSE 250 listed company for monitoring: the financial reporting Ren Schuster and Per Utnegaard.
process: the annual audit: the For the remainder of the year, following effectiveness of the groups internal the resignation of Philip Rogerson The group provides an induction controls: the groups internal audit and and Ren Schuster, the committee programme for new audit committee risk management systems, and the comprised Andrew Wood committee members and, where required, provides independence of the external auditor chairman, David Lowden and Per ongoing training to enable all the and its provision of non-audit services.
All members of the committee members to carry out their committee are non-executive directors duties.
The induction programme The audit committee is required to and are considered by the board to covers the role of the audit committee, report its findings to the board, be independent.
its terms of reference and expected identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement time commitment by members and The Chairman, the Finance Director, an overview of the groups business, is needed, and make recommendations the Internal Audit Manager and senior on the steps to be taken.
including the main business and representatives from the external financial dynamics and risks.
Ongoing auditors attend each meeting at the The committees terms of reference training includes attendance at formal request of the committee chairman.
were reviewed and approved by the conferences and briefing by external At least once each year, the committee board in February 2011.
meets with the external auditors relevant matters required by Section without executive management The board requires the audit committee 7.1.
3 of the Disclosure and Transparency present.
From time to time, the members to have an understanding of: Rules and the relevant Combined Code committee chairman also meets in and are available on the companys the principles of, content of, and private session with the Head of Internal website or on request from the developments in financial reporting Audit without any other member Company Secretary.
including the applicable accounting of management being present.
standards and statements of recommended practice: key aspects of the groups operations including corporate policies, group financing and systems of internal control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: and the role of internal and external auditing and risk management.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 49 design and implementation of Actions taken by the audit External audit The audit committee manages the financial information systems: committee in2010 internal audit outsourcing services: During 2010 the audit committee has: relationship with the external auditor onbehalf of the board.
It considers the legal and other services unrelated reviewed the preliminary to the audit: or reappointment of the external auditor announcement and the June 2010 each year, as well as remuneration management functions including half-yearly financial report.
and other terms of engagement, and of the review the committee received makes a recommendation to the The total sum invoiced to the group a report from theexternal auditors on board.
Theaudit committee is satisfied byits external auditor for non-audit their audit ofthe annual report and with theauditors effectiveness and services provided in 2010 was financial statements and review of independence and has not considered 0.3 million 2009: 0.3 million.
the half-yearly financial report: itnecessary to require an independent The total sum invoiced by them for audit considered the output from the tender process.
The last competitive services inrespect of the same period group-wide process used to identify, audit tender was in 2006, when was 1.0million 2009: 1 million.
evaluate and mitigate risks:  LLP was reviewed the effectiveness of the appointed by the board on the Internal audit groups internal controls and The group employs internal auditors recommendation of the audit disclosures made in the annual report committee.
There are no contractual with skills and experience relevant and financial statements on this totheoperations of the group and obligations that restrict the audit matter: committees capacity to recommend supplements this with external reviewed and agreed the scope of resources.
Internal audit activities are a particular firm for appointment the audit work to be undertaken by as auditor.
co-ordinated centrally by the Head the external auditors: of Internal Audit who is accountable Iain Ferguson, who joined the agreed the fees to be paid to the to the audit committee and has access board on 1st March 2010, is a external auditors for their audit of the to the committee or its Chairman at member of the Advisory Board to December 2010 report and financial any time during the year.
 LLP, the statements and June 2010 half-yearly companys auditors.
Accordingly, he is All group businesses are required to financial report: not a member of the audit committee comply with the groups financial undertaken an assessment of the and does not take part in any board control framework that sets out qualification, expertise and resources, discussions regarding the appointment minimum control requirements.
and independence of the external of the external auditor.
auditor and the effectiveness of Internal audit conducts reviews of theaudit process.
This included the businesses focused on risk areas The group follows a pre-approval policy consideration of a report on the audit for the provision of non-audit services.
noted through monitoring of the groups firms own quality control procedures: risk profile and requests from the In most instances, the individual required that the committee prethreshold for any non-audit services is executive board and audit committee.
approved all non-audit services to be Theauditcommittee receives regular 50,000.
Other accounting firms were performed by the groups external used for larger, non-audit services, reports on the results of internal auditor that exceeded pre-set auditswork and monitors the status including taxation and consultancy thresholds: advice and due diligence in relation to ofrecommendations arising.
The agreed a programme of work for committee reviews annually the significant acquisitions.
The objective the groups Internal Audit function: ofmaintaining a policy on non-audit adequacy, qualifications and experience received reports from the Head of of the groups internal audit resources services is to ensure that the provision Internal Audit on the work undertaken of such services does not impair the and the nature and scope of internal by internal audit and management audit activity in the context of the external auditors independence or responses to proposals made in the objectivity.
The external auditor cannot groups risk management system set audit reports issued during the year: out below.
be engaged to perform any assignment monitored and reviewed the where the output is then subject to their An Internal Audit Strategy has been effectiveness of the groups internal review as external auditor.
The Strategy ensures audit function: and services provided by the groups auditor the assurance needs of the group are reviewed the whistleblowing and its associates are included in note 3, met through the implementation of the arrangements in place for staff to page 86. group strategic plan and beyond.
raise concerns in confidence about The following are specifically prohibited: possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters and, where appraisal or valuation services, required, ensuring independent fairness opinions or : and reviewed its own kind reports: effectiveness.
broker or dealer, investment adviser The committee chairman reports or investment banking services: bookkeeping services related on each committee meeting at the to accounting records or financial following board meeting.
statements: Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 50 Corporate governance statement continued Ongoing process for risk identification, Nomination committee report During the year the committee has also: evaluation and management Composition assessed thoroughly the extent to There is an ongoing process for the The nomination committee met twice which current non-executive directors identification, evaluation and during 2010 in February and December.
remain independent: management of the most significant Up to 28th February 2010 the considered the terms of appointment risks faced by the group details of which committee comprised Christopher of Christopher Kemball and Per are outlined on pages 32 to 35.
Kemball committee chairman John Utnegaard and the recommendation This process includes the following: Burns, Philip Rogerson, Ren Schuster, to the board that these terms to be Per Utnegaard and Peter Ventress.
extended for a further three years: a defined organisational structure Forthe remainder of the year, following considered the membership of the with appropriate delegation of the resignation of Philip Rogerson and boards committees and concluded authority approved by the board: Ren Schuster on 28th February 2010, that their membership at December formal authorisation procedures for the committee comprised: Christopher 2010 was appropriate: and all investments with clear guidelines Kemball committee chairman, evaluated the time commitment on appraisal techniques and approval IainFerguson, David Lowden, required from each non-executive criteria: Andrew Wood, Per Utnegaard, director and the Chairman in fulfilling clear responsibilities of line and Peter Ventress and, until his resignation their respective roles.
financial management for the on 23rdSeptember 2010, John Burns.
maintenance of good financial As at 31stDecember 2010 four of Remuneration committee report controls and the production and the six members of the committee are review of detailed, accurate and Full details of the committees regarded by the board as independent.
timely financial management composition, role, authority and activities information: are set out in the report on directors Functions a comprehensive financial review The nomination committee is remuneration on pages 5461, which cycle, which includes a rolling will be subject to an advisory vote by responsible for board succession three-year planning process, an planning and makes recommendations shareholders at the Annual General annual budget approved by the Meeting on 28th April 2011. to the board on the appointment and board, review of monthly variances reappointment of all directors.
It also against budget and quarterly Internal controls and risk management keeps under review succession planning reforecasting of annual performance: for senior executives.
Theterms of The board has responsibility for provision to management and the reference of the nomination committee establishing, maintaining and reviewing board of relevant, accurate and timely were reviewed and approved by the the effectiveness of the groups systems information including relevant key board in February 2011 andare available of internal control.
As internal control performance indicators, based on on the companys website or upon systems are designed to manage rather reliable management information request from the Company Secretary.
than eliminate the risk of failure to systems which are regularly improved Activities in 2010 achieve business objectives, they can and updated: Following the decision of Philip therefore only provide reasonable and monthly reports to the board from Rogerson and Ren Schuster to retire not absolute assurance against material the Chief Executive, Finance Director from the board with effect from misstatement or loss.
and the managing directors of the 28thFebruary 2010, the committee Nordic, Continent and UK and Ireland These systems of internal control performed a detailed evaluation of the regions: are regularly reviewed by the board.
skills, knowledge and experience on regular business unit management Thekey elements of the existing theboard which resulted in the decision board meetings periodically systems of internal control, which to recruit three new non-executive attended by the Chief Executive or accord with the revised Turnbull directors.
Recruitment consultants Finance Director, executive board Guidance 2005, and which operated Spencer Stuart were retained, candidate meetings and company board throughout the year and up to the date specifications were prepared, and the meetings at which existing, new of approval of the 2010 Annual Report committee interviewed a number of and evolving operational, financial and Accounts, are as follows: candidates before the board decided to and other risks are discussed, and appoint Iain Ferguson, David Lowden Open culture appropriate actions to manage these and Andrew Wood with effect from The board considers that the group risks are agreed and followed up: 1stMarch 2010. operates a risk-aware culture with discussion of any significant issues or anopen style of communication.
control weaknesses identified and, if In the last quarter of 2010 an interim Thisfacilitates the early identification considered necessary, their inclusion Human Resources consultant was ofproblems and issues, so that in reports to the executive board and recruited to assist the Chief Executive appropriate action is taken quickly to company board: and the non-executive directors in the minimise any impact on the business.
the maintenance of business unit risk review and development of succession registers: plans for senior executives.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 51 the maintenance of a group risk How we identify, manage appropriate.
In setting the groups register which sets out the most andcontrolrisk delegation of authority and approving significant risks facing the group and The board agrees and sets the group policy and procedure in key the actions being taken in mitigation, strategic direction for the group.
areas, the boards aim is to reduce risks regularly updated and reviewed by The identification of the most significant to acceptable levels.
Mitigation plans the board, and summarised in the risks that face the group is the for the most significant risks facing the Business Review on pages 32 to 35: responsibility of the board.
Risk group are communicated to all business and identification procedures take into units who are then required to a structured and approved account each of the strategic objectives implement them.
programme of internal audit visits outlined on pages 8 and 9.
In February In addition business unit management with the implementation of 2011 the board considered the principal teams are responsible for the recommendations made being risks and opportunities facing the group identification, analysis and assessment monitored as part of a continuous and their relative balance.
The board of local risks, and the implementation programme of improvement.
also reviewed these in February, June of appropriate and effective mitigation and December 2010.
The board Due to the change in organisational plans to, where possible, reduce these delegates the development of structure from 1st July 2011, risk risks to acceptable levels.
mitigation plans to manage these management guidelines will be significant risks to the Executive Board reviewed during the first half of 2011. and other senior members of management where considered Risk management framework The board k Sets strategic objectives.
k Approves group policy and procedure.
Executive board Risk management assistance: Audit committee k Monitors performance Specialist management functions k Monitors assurance and risk and changes in risk profile, including the following assist management arrangements.
and provides regular reports with the management of risk to the board.
across the group: k Agrees key risk mitigation plans.
k Group Risk Management responsibilities include maintaining group risk register and advising business units.
Business unit risk management Effectiveness of risk and control processes k Insurance.
k Management and employees are responsible for the Reviews of the effectiveness of key k Health and Safety.
identification, assessment, risk management and control management and reporting k Fire Management.
processes by: of local risks.
k Maintenance of local risk registers.
k Implementation of key risk k Quality Control Audit.
k Group Insurer Property Risk Surveys.
Assurance lines of defence 1 Business unit management.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 52 Corporate governance statement continued Whistleblowing Annual assessment of the effectiveness Financial reporting of systems of internal control In addition to the general internal The group has a system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns The board and audit committee controls and risk management requested, received and reviewed processes described above, the group about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
During 2010 reports from senior management, its also has specific internal controls and advisers, group Internal Audit and our risk management systems to govern the system was operational throughout the group in 15 countries.
Due to the external auditors in order to assist the the financial reporting process and board with their annual assessment preparation of the annual financial diversity of our workforce the system operates in 25 languages.
Procedures ofthe effectiveness of the groups statements.
These systems include systems of internal controls.
clear policies and procedures for are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a confidential manner.
ensuring that the groups financial Through the ongoing processes reporting processes and the TheCompany Secretary is required to outlined above, areas for improvement report to the audit committee twice a preparation of its consolidated accounts in internal controls are continuously comply with allrelevant regulatory year in February and August on the identified and action plans are devised.
integrity of these procedures, the reporting requirements.
These are Progress towards completion of actions comprehensively detailed inthe Group state of ongoing investigations and is regularly monitored by management conclusions reached.
During 2010 group Finance Manual, which is used by the and the board.
The board considers businesses in the preparation of their employees used this system to raise thatnone of the areas of improvement concerns about nine separate issues, results.
Financial control requirements identified constitute a significant failing are also set out in the Group Finance all of which were appropriately or weakness.
The board considers that the Management representations covering Shareholder engagement information that it receives is sufficient compliance with relevant policies and to enable it to review the effectiveness the accuracy of financial information Shareholders play an important role in of the groups internal controls in are also collated on a biannual basis.
the groups governance by electing the accordance with the internal control Detailed accounts for each reporting directors, by monitoring and rewarding guidance for directors on the entity are prepared monthly, comprising their performance and by engaging CombinedCode issued by the income statement, cash flow and in constructive dialogue with the board.
balance sheet in a manner very similar The Chairman, Christopher Kemball, to the year end and half yearly reporting is responsible for ensuring that there is processes.
These are subject to ongoing and effective communication management review and analysis in the with shareholders.
If shareholders have financial review cycle as set out above.
any concerns, which contact through Anti-bribery and corruption the normal channels with the Chief In December 2010 the board reviewed Executive, the Finance Director or the the groups approach to anti-bribery Chairman have failed to resolve, or for and corruption.
Updated business unit which contact is inappropriate, then the instructions were subsequently Senior Independent Director is available distributed outlining how they should to them.
To that end, both the Chairman beadopting a risk-based approach to and the Senior Independent Director managing this risk.
All business units make themselves available, when arerequired to undergo appropriate requested, for meetings with investors training and instruction to ensure that on issues relating to the groups they have effective anti-bribery and governance and strategy.
corruption policies and procedures inplace.
Compliance will be regularly monitored by the audit committee andinternal audit during 2011.
Analysis of our shareholders by range Percentage of holders Percentage of issued capital at 31st December 2010 at 31st December 2010 Size of shareholding 5 Number of shareholders 1 Zero 1 Zero 4 1 1 2 3 to 10,000 84.3% 3 to 10,000 1.6% 2 2 10,001 2 10,001 to 100,000 9.0% to 100,000 3.9% 4 3 100,000 3 100,000 5 to 1 million 5.2% to 1 million 18.4% 4 1 million 4 1 million to 10 million 1.4% to 10 million 41.2% 5 10 million 0.1% 5 10 million 34.9% Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 53 Any member attending the Annual During 2010, 74 separate meetings and The company is committed to two telephone conference calls were increasing shareholder value and General Meeting has the right to ask questions.
Any such question relating held with major shareholders, by either communicates its achievements and or both the Chief Executive and the prospects to its shareholders in an tothe business will be dealt with at themeeting, except in certain Finance Director.
These focused accurate and timely manner.
Apart primarily on the groups trading fromthe Annual General Meeting, circumstances including if it is undesirable in the interests of the company or the operations and the strategic review.
thecompany communicates with its Where significant views were shareholders by way of the annual good order of the meeting to do so or if to do so would involve the disclosure expressed, either during or following the report and accounts and the interim meeting via our brokers, these were results announcement.
Shareholders attending the meeting are informed recorded and circulated to all directors.
matters relating to the trading or development of the business are of the number of proxy votes lodged On 2nd November 2010 the Chief for each resolution.
disseminated to the market by way Executive hosted an investor day for ofStock Exchange announcements over thirty shareholders and advisers Other information required by the which appear on the companys website when the key conclusions of the 2010 www.
The company FSAs corporate governance rules strategy review were presented.
also holds meetings with its major Shareholders were also given the Certain information required by the institutional shareholders.
opportunity to meet the executive FSAs corporate governance rules to be board and receive presentations from The Annual General Meeting takes set out or referred to in this corporate management in respect of our place in London.
The 2011 meeting governance statement is set out in the workwear, facilities and healthcare will be held on 28th April at the Royal Directors Report, on pages 63 to 64, businesses.
Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, underthe headings: Restrictions on London.
Formal notification is sent to transfer of securities in the company: In addition, on 8th December 2010 the shareholders approximately six weeks Amendment of Articles of Association: Chairman hosted a dinner where five inadvance and in any event at least Appointment and replacement of major shareholders had the opportunity 21days before the meeting.
Other directors: Powers of the directors: to meet and raise issues directly with the general meetings may also be convened Substantial shareholdings and Purchase non-executive directors without the from time to time on at least 21 days of own shares.
notice or where certain requirements By order of the board All the directors at the time of the 2010 are met, including prior approval Annual General Meeting attended that byshareholders, by way of special meeting and it is expected that all board resolution, on 14 days notice.
David Lawler members will attend the Annual General TheAnnual General Meeting gives Company Secretary Meeting on 28th April 2011 and will be shareholders an opportunity to hear 24th February 2011 available to meet shareholders.
about the general development of the business and to ask questions of the To facilitate easier voting for our Chairman and, through him, the shareholders who hold their shares chairmen of the key committees and in certificated form, we will enable other directors.
Details of the meeting them to vote electronically through and the resolutions to be proposed our Registrars website.
together with explanatory notes are set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders and is also available on our website www.
Analysis of our shareholder base between institutional and private investors Number of private Issued capital to private andinstitutional investors andinstitutional investors at 31st December 2010 at 31st December 2010 1 Institutional 614 1 Institutional 1 2 1 168.3m 2 Individual 1,445 2 Individual 3.5m 2
