Unite 37 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
However, such a system is designed to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement.
The provisions of the Combined Code in respect of internal controls require that Directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial control.
Through reports from the Groups Leadership Executive, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the period covered by the annual report and accounts and has concluded that such controls were effective throughout such period.
The Company has an established framework of internal controls which, amongst other things, includes the following: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are reported on monthly and compared against budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the year and revised as necessary.
The Company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Investment appraisal The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where investment or development properties are being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed for major investments.
Business risk assessment The Group has developed a comprehensive risk management system whereby strategic threats to the business are identified and the management and control of those threats prioritised.
As a result of this system, the Board is satisfied with the high level controls in place, although all areas of the business are kept under review and new controls introduced as appropriate.
An analysis of the more important risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is set out on pages 28 and 29.
The Groups objectives and policies with regard to the management of financial risks are set out in note 20 to the financial statements.
Social responsibility The Company has formal procedures for considering the significance to its business of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters, which are considered as part of the Groups risk management system referred to above in relation to Business Risk Assessment.
The results of the benchmarking reviews which form part of that system which are carried out by the Groups Leadership Executive, are reported to and considered by the full Board on a six-monthly basis.
Details of the risks and uncertainties that are considered most significant to the Group are set out on pages 28 and 29.
In light of the above, the Board believes that it has in place appropriate procedures to identify and assess the significant risks to the Companys short and long-term value arising from SEE matters, as well as opportunities to enhance value that may arise from an appropriate response.
In that respect, the Board considers that it receives adequate information to make those assessments and that the Company has in place effective measures for managing significant risks.
Account is taken of SEE matters in relation to the training of Directors.
the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company confirms that, in respect of its current and future financial years, it intends to comply with the principles of best practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
In particular, the Company confirms that its Board evaluation exercise will be externally facilitated at least once every three years and that all Directors will, with effect from the Annual General Meeting, be subject to annual re-election byshareholders.
investor relations The Executive Directors have a programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Feedback from suchmeetings regarding shareholder opinion is provided to the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity, which the Board encourages, for private investors to communicate with the Company.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Other Financial Governance Business Introduction statements information review
