Unite 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 the Board of Directors Phil White CBe Mark Allan Chairman Chief Executive Phil, 61, was appointed Non-Executive Mark, 38, was appointed to the role Director and Chairman Designate ofChief Executive in September 2006, ofthe Group in January 2009 and having previously served as Chief appointed Chairman in May 2009.
Financial Officer for three years.
Themajority of Phils executive career Markheld a variety of other roles in was spent in the public transport thebusiness prior to that, having joined sector, during an exciting period of theGroup in 1999.
As Chief Executive deregulation and privatisation.
He was he chairs the Groups Leadership Chief Executive of National Express Executive and has overall responsibility Group plc from 1997 to 2006, leading for the Groups performance against its the business through a period of business plan targets, whilst continuing considerable growth both in the UK to develop UNITEs growth strategy.
Phil is currently NonExecutive Chairman of Kier Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Lookers plc.
His experience gained in leading customer focused businesses, both in an executive and nonexecutive capacity, is invaluable to theGroup.
Joe Lister John tonkiss Chief Financial Officer Chief Operating Officer Joe, 39, joined UNITE in 2002.
He was John, 43, joined UNITE in 2001 as appointed as Chief Financial Officer in General Manager of the Groups offJanuary 2008 having held a variety of site manufacturing facility.
John joined roles including Investment Director and UNITEs Leadership Support Board in Managing Director of Livocity.
Joe is 2002 and subsequently was promoted responsible for the Groups finances to the role of Group Development and investment strategy.
In 2006, John was Financial Officer, Joe is also responsible appointed Managing Director of for the Company secretarial function UNITEs Student Hospitality UK Business and Chairs the Groups Major and, in 2007, was made UNITEs Chief Investment Approval meetings.
Operating Officer to reflect his Priortojoining UNITE, Joe qualified responsibility for strategic and asachartered accountant with tacticalbusiness operations .
