Governance Board of Directors and Management Committee 64 64 Baroness Hogg Chairman Non-Executive Directors Willem Mesdag Chairman since 2002 and a non-executive Non-executive Director since 2007.
Chairman of the Managing Partner of Red Mountain Non-executive Director since September Financial Reporting Council, Senior Adviser Capital Partners LLC.
Chairman of DSG International since to the Financial Services Authority and and Managing Director of Goldman, September 2009.
A non-executive Member of the Takeover Panel.
Chairman Sachs & Co. Director of ISS A S and National Grid plc of Frontier Economics Limited and Senior and a member of the University of Christine Morin-Postel Independent Director of BG Group plc.
Formerly CFO Non-executive Director since 2002.
From 1995 to 2002 Chairman of Foreign of Deutsche Post, having been appointed A Director of British American Tobacco & Colonial Smaller Companies PLC.
From to the Management Board following its p. l. c. Royal Dutch Shell plc and EXOR S. p. A.
2003 to 2006 Deputy Chairman of GKN acquisition of Exel plc in December 2005 Formerly Chief Executive of Socit plc.
Formerly Head of the Prime Ministers where he had been Chief Executive since Gnrale fide Belgique, executive VicePolicy Unit.
Formerly Chairman of Samsonite President and member of the executive Michael Queen Chief Executive Corporation and a non-executive Director committee of Suez and a Director of Chief Executive since January 2009, of PHS Group plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys Tractebel, Fortis and Alcan, Inc. and an Executive Director since 1997. plc and Connell plc.
Robert Swannell A member of the Management Alistair Cox Non-executive Director since 2006 and Committee and the Groups Investment Non-executive Director since October Senior Independent Director since April Committee since 1997.
Chief Executive of Hays plc.
Chairman of HMV Group plc and From 1994 to 1996 seconded to HM Formerly Chief Executive of Xansa plc Senior Independent Director of The British Treasury.
Group Financial Controller from from 2002 to 2007, and Regional Land Company PLC.
Formerly Chairman 1996 to 1997 and Finance Director from President of Asia and Group Strategy of Citis European Investment Bank and 1997 to 2005.
Managing Partner, Growth Director at Lafarge formerly Blue Circle Vice-Chairman Citi Europe.
A member of Capital 2005 to 2008 and Managing Industries between 1994 and 2002. the Takeover Panel Appeal Board, and a Partner, Infrastructure 2008 to January trustee of Career Academies UK.
Past Chairman of the British Richard Meddings Venture Capital Association.
Group Finance Director of Standard Julia Wilson Group Finance Director Chartered PLC since 2006, having joined Group Finance Director and member of the Board of Standard Chartered PLC as a the Management Committee since 2008.
Group Executive Director in November Joined 3i in 2006 as Deputy Finance 2002.
A member of the Governing Council Director, with responsibility for the Groups of the International Chamber of finance, taxation and treasury functions.
Formerly Previously Group Director of Corporate Chief Operating Officer, Barclays Private Finance at Cable & Wireless plc.
During Clients, Group Financial Controller at her absence on maternity leave from Barclays PLC and Group Finance Director April 2009 to March 2010 her major of Woolwich PLC.
responsibilities were managed by Stephen Halliwell, Chief Financial Officer of the Group's infrastructure business, and by Ian Nolan.
Baroness Hogg John Allan Willem Mesdag Michael Queen Alistair Cox Christine Morin-Postel Julia Wilson Richard Meddings Robert Swannell 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 65 Management Committee Bob Stefanowski Board Committees Chairman and Managing Partner, Kevin Dunn Audit and Compliance Committee 3i North America, 3i Asia.
Head of General Counsel and Company Secretary the Groups Global Financial Services Robert Swannell Chairman responsible for 3is legal, compliance, Practice.
A member of the Management John Allan internal audit, human resources and Committee since joining 3i in 2008.
Spent Alistair Cox company secretarial functions.
A member 15 years with GE Capital Corporation, of the Management Committee since Richard Meddings most recently President and CEO of joining 3i in 2007.
Formerly a Senior GE Corporate Finance EMEA.
Christine Morin-Postel Managing Director, running GEs European Leveraged Finance business Paul Waller Remuneration Committee after serving as European General Counsel Managing Partner, Funds.
A member John Allan Chairman for GE.
Prior to GE, was a partner at of the Management Committee since the law firms Travers Smith and Latham 1999 and the Groups Investment Baroness Hogg & Watkins.
Willem Mesdag Past Chairman of the European Private Christine Morin-Postel Ian Nolan Equity and Venture Capital Association.
Managing Partner, Investments Nominations Committee Chief Investment Officer.
A member Guy Zarzavatdjian of the Management Committee since Managing Partner, Growth Capital.
Baroness Hogg Chairman February 2009 and the Groups A member of the Management John Allan Investment Committee since 2006.
Committee since 2007 and a member of Alistair Cox Formerly Managing Director UK Buyouts.
the Groups Investment Committee since Richard Meddings Joined 3i in 1987.
Managing Director, Benelux from 1999 Willem Mesdag Jonathan Russell to 2002 and Managing Director, France Christine Morin-Postel Managing Partner, Buyouts.
Michael Queen of the Management Committee and Robert Swannell the Groups Investment Committee since 1999.
Past Chairman of the European Private Equity and Venture Valuations Committee Capital Association.
Baroness Hogg Chairman Willem Mesdag Michael Queen Robert Swannell Julia Wilson Kevin Dunn Bob Stefanowski Ian Nolan Paul Waller Stephen Halliwell During Julia Wilsons maternity leave in the year many of her responsibilities were managed by Stephen Halliwell, who has been Chief Financial Officer for 3is infrastructure investment business since 2007, responsible for its operational, financial and reporting requirements.
Previously Head of Financial Planning and Analysis in the Groups Finance function.
Jonathan Russell Guy Zarzavatdjian 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 66 66 This section of the Directors report contains statutory conservative basis such that the Company should be and corporate governance information for the year to well-placed to deal with external events, take advantage 31 March 2010 the year.
of opportunities and manage its investment and divestment activities in a flexible manner.
The Board has decided that net debt should not exceed 1 billion in the Principal activity next three years and may at times be significantly below 3i Group plc is an international investor focused on this limit.
As a consequence, during that period, gearing, buyouts, growth capital and infrastructure, investing which is a function of both net debt and asset values, in Europe, Asia and North America.
The principal activity is expected to be in the range of 0%30%.
It should be of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group is noted that subject always to the formal gearing limit investment.
in the Companys investment policy statement set out above the actual gearing level at any point in time will Group investment policy fluctuate since it is a function of, among other things, 3is investment policy, which as a closed ended asset valuations and the timing of investment and investment fund it is required to publish, is as follows: realisation cash flows.
The Board anticipates that the Company may be in a net cash position during certain 3i is an investment company which aims to provide periods for example during periods of high valuations its shareholders with quoted access to private equity where realisations might be expected to exceed returns.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted investment but may have net debt in other periods and unquoted equity and or debt investments in for example where valuations are relatively low or after businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and North periods of low return flows.
The geographies, economic sectors, funds and asset classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve Tax and investment company status as opportunities are identified.
Proposed investments are assessed individually and all significant investments The Company is an investment company as defined by require approval from the Groups Investment section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Overall investment targets are subject to & Customs has approved the Company as an investment periodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation reviewed to monitor exposure to specific geographies, Taxes Act 1988 for the financial period to 31 March economic sectors and asset classes.
Since that date the Company has directed its affairs to enable it to continue to be so approved.
3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion of investments by geography, economic sector, asset Regulation class and size as well as through the maturity profile 3i Investments plc, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, of its investment portfolio.
In addition, although 3i wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Company, are does not set maximum exposure limits for asset authorised and regulated by the FSA under the Financial allocations, no more than 15% by value of 3is Services and Markets Act 2000.
Where applicable, portfolio can be held in a single investment.
certain Group subsidiaries' businesses outside the United Investments are generally funded with a mixture Kingdom are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
of debt and shareholders funds with a view to maximising returns to shareholders, whilst maintaining Management arrangements a strong capital base.
3is gearing depends not only on its level of debt, but also on the impact of market 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the movements and other factors on the value of its Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
The Board takes this into account when, these investment management and other services, as required, it sets a precise maximum level of gearing.
for which regulatory authorisation is required, provide The Board has therefore set the maximum level of for fees based on the work done and costs incurred gearing at 150% and has set no minimum level of in providing such services.
These contracts may be gearing.
If the gearing ratio should exceed the 150% terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce 3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and the gearing ratio to below that limit as soon as administrative services, for which no regulatory practicable thereafter.
3i is committed to achieving authorisation is required, under contracts which provide balance sheet efficiency.
for fees based on the work done and costs incurred in providing such services together with a performance When the Company published its investment policy in fee based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
its Annual Report and accounts for the year to 31 March 2009, the Board also stated that it would reconsider the appropriateness of the previously stated optimum Results and dividends gearing ratio range of 30% to 40% across the cycle in Total recognised income and expense for the year was light of the then occurring dislocation in the debt 407 million 2009: 2,150 million.
An interim markets and the substantial changes in the pricing and dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share in respect of the availability of debt finance.
year to 31 March 2010 was paid on 13 January 2010.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.0p per The Board has decided that in current circumstances ordinary share be paid in respect of the year to it is appropriate to adopt a more conservative financing 31 March 2010 to shareholders on the Register at structure.
The Board recognises the current need to the close of business on 18 June 2010. manage liquidity and gross and net debt levels on a 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 67 The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the until the Companys AGM in 2010 or 7 October 2010, Employee Trust has waived subject to certain minor if earlier.
In the year to 31 March 2010, the Company exceptions dividends declared by the Company after repurchased and cancelled 4,670,975 B shares 26 May 1994 on shares held by the Employee Trust.
representing 0.01% of the nominal value of the Companys total called-up share capital as at 1 April Business review 2010 pursuant to this authority for 5,932,138.
The Groups development during the year to 31 March 2010, its position at that date and the Groups likely future Directors interests development are detailed in the Chairmans statement on In accordance with FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, page 5, the Chief Executives statement on pages 8 to 10 Directors interests in the shares of the Company and the Business review on pages 11 to 44. in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rule Share capital 3.1.
2 R as at 31 March 2010 are shown below: The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March Ordinary 2010 comprised 970,381,476 ordinary shares of shares B shares 19 73 22p each and 4,635,018 B shares cumulative Baroness Hogg 83,328 0 preference shares of 1p each, which represented 99.99% J M Allan 933 0 and 0.01% respectively of the nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
During the year, the issued A R Cox 800 0 share capital of the Company altered as set out below.
R H Meddings 14,360 0 W Mesdag 115,885 0 Ordinary shares C J M Morin-Postel 19,851 0 The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as M J Queen 1,266,012 6,227 at 1 April 2009 was 383,970,880 ordinary shares.
During the year to 31 March 2010 this increased by R W A Swannell 36,685 0 586,410,596 ordinary shares as a result of the J S Wilson 45,877 1,038 Companys rights issue, the issue of shares to the trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan, the issue of shares in The share interests shown for Mr M J Queen and connection with the Employee Share Investment Plan and Mrs J S Wilson include shares held in the 3i Group Share the issue of shares in connection with the 3i Quoted Incentive Plan see the table on page 86 and share Private Equity plc acquisition.
bonus awards under the 3i Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 8 July The share interests shown exclude share option, 2009, the Directors were authorised to repurchase performance share and super-performance share up to 96,000,000 ordinary shares in the Company awards detailed in the Directors remuneration report.
representing approximately 22.8% of the Companys From 1 April 2010 to 1 May 2010, Mr M J Queen and issued ordinary share capital as at 8 May 2009 until Mrs J S Wilson became interested in an additional 138 the Companys AGM in 2010 or 7 October 2010, if ordinary shares each and there were no other changes earlier.
This authority was not exercised in the year to to Directors share interests.
Major interests in ordinary shares B shares Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been received by The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the 2009 was 9,305,993 B shares.
No new B shares were FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 31 March issued in the year to 31 March 2010.
At the AGM 2010 and 1 May 2010: on 8 July 2009, the Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 9,305,993 B shares in the Company As at As at 31 March % of issued 1 May % of issued 2010 share capital 2010 share capital Nature of holding Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 22,069,504 5.24 22,069,504 5.24 Direct and indirect AXA S. A. and its group 15,580,556 4.06 15,580,556 4.06 Direct and indirect BlackRock, Inc. 146,283,947 15.08 146,283,947 15.08 See Note 1 below Deutsche Bank AG 36,145,173 3.72 36,145,173 3.72 See Note 2 below Lloyds Banking Group Plc 20,160,720 4.78 20,160,720 4.78 Direct and indirect Legal & General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 38,620,595 3.98 38,620,595 3.98 Direct Schroders Plc 48,480,507 4.99 48,553,167 5.00 Indirect Standard Life Investments plc 50,093,084 5.16 50,093,084 5.16 Direct and indirect The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 22,865,000 5.97 22,865,000 5.97 Indirect 1 Indirect, and Financial Instruments with similar economic effect to Qualifying Financial Instruments.
2 Direct, and Qualifying Financial Instruments.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 68 68 There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid Rights and restrictions attaching to shares shares in the Company, save as follows.
The Board may A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching to decline to register a transfer of uncertificated shares in shares as at 31 March 2010 is set out below.
the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated The amendment of the Companys Articles of Securities Regulations or where a transfer is to more Association is governed by relevant statutes.
The Board may decline to The Articles may be amended by special resolution register any transfer of certificated shares which is not of the shareholders in general meeting.
in respect of only one class of share, which is to more than four joint holders, which is not accompanied by the The 2010 Notice of AGM contains a special resolution certificate for the shares to which it relates, which is not proposing the adoption of new Articles of Association.
duly stamped in circumstances where a duly stamped If this resolution is passed, the rights and restrictions instrument is required, or where in accordance with attaching to shares will be altered as set out in the section 794 of the Companies Act 2006 a notice form of Articles of Association submitted to the AGM.
under section 793 of that Act has been served by the A summary of the differences between the current and Company on a shareholder who has then failed to give proposed Articles of Association is set out in the 2010 the information required within the specified time.
In the latter circumstances the Company may make the Holders of ordinary shares and B shares enjoy the rights relevant shares subject to certain restrictions including accorded to them under the Articles of Association of in respect of the ability to exercise voting rights, to the Company and under the laws of England and Wales.
transfer the shares validly and, except in the case of a Any share may be issued with or have attached to liquidation, to receive the payment of sums due from it such rights and restrictions as the Company by the Company.
Since 14 July 2009 the Company has ordinary resolution or failing such resolution the Board been entitled to appoint a person to execute a transfer may decide.
on behalf of all holders of B shares in acceptance of an offer, paying the holders such amount as they would Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak have been entitled to on a winding-up of the Company.
and vote at general meetings of the Company and to appoint proxies and, in the case of corporations, corporate There are no shares carrying special rights with regard representatives to attend, speak and vote at such to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions meetings on their behalf.
On a poll, holders of ordinary placed on voting rights of fully paid shares, save where shares are entitled to one vote for each share held.
Holders in accordance with Article 12 of the Companys Articles of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys of Association a restriction notice has been served by Annual Report and accounts, to receive such dividends and the Company in respect of shares for failure to comply other distributions as may lawfully be paid or declared on with statutory notices or where a transfer notice as such shares and, on any liquidation of the Company, to described below has been served in respect of shares share in the surplus assets of the Company after and has not yet been complied with.
satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of the B In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the shares or such other shares with preferred rights as may Companys Articles of Association the Company may then be in issue.
serve a transfer notice on holders of shares.
The relevant Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits circumstances relate to: a potential tax disadvantage available for distribution in any year and in priority to any to the Company, b the number of United States payment of dividend or other distribution to holders of Residents who own or hold shares becoming 75 or ordinary shares, to a cumulative preferential dividend of more, or c the Company being required to be registered 3.75% per annum calculated on the amount of 127p as an investment company under relevant US legislation.
per B share the Return Amount.
On a return of The notice would require the transfer of relevant shares capital other than a solvent intra group re-organisation and pending such transfer the rights and privileges holders of B shares are entitled to receive in priority to attaching to those shares would be suspended.
any payment to holders of ordinary shares payment of To attend and vote at a Company general meeting the Return Amount together with any accrued but a shareholder must be entered on the register of unpaid dividends but are not entitled to any further right members at such time not being earlier than 48 hours of participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
before the meeting as stated in the notice of general Holders of B shares are not entitled to receive notice meeting.
of or attend, speak or vote at general meetings of the The Company is not aware of any agreements between Company save where the B share dividend has remained holders of its securities that may restrict the transfer unpaid for six months or more or where the business of of shares or exercise of voting rights.
the meeting includes consideration of a resolution for the winding-up of the Company other than a solvent intra group re-organisation in which case holders of B shares shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote only in relation to such resolution and in either case shall, on a poll, be entitled to one vote per B share held.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 69 Debentures Directors conflicts of interest As detailed in notes 19 and 20 on pages 117 and 118 Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of respectively, as at 31 March 2010 the Company had interest with the Company.
The Companys Articles in issue 3.625 per cent convertible bonds due 2011, of Association enable Directors to approve conflicts of Notes issued under the 3i Group plc 2,000 million interest and include other conflict of interest provisions.
Note Issuance Programme and Notes issued under the The Company has implemented processes to identify 3i Group plc 1,000 million Euro-Commercial Paper potential and actual conflicts of interest.
are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Appointment and re-election of Directors Directors indemnities Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, evaluation, non-executive Directors are appointed for the Company has maintained Qualifying Third-Party an initial period of three years.
Before the third and sixth Indemnity Provisions as defined under relevant anniversaries of a non-executive Directors first legislation for the benefit of the Companys Directors appointment, the Director discusses with the Board throughout the period.
whether it is appropriate for a further three year term to be served.
Employment The Groups policy is one of equal opportunity in the The Companys Articles of Association provide for: selection, training, career development and promotion a the minimum number of Directors to be two and the of employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual maximum to be 20, unless otherwise determined by orientation, ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled the Company by ordinary resolution: or otherwise.
b Directors to be appointed by ordinary resolution of The Group treats applicants and employees with the Companys shareholders in general meeting or by disabilities equally and fairly and provides facilities, the Board: equipment and training to assist disabled employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary to c Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if: ensure access and support to job applicants who happen i they have been appointed by the Board since the to be disabled and who respond to our request to inform preceding AGM: or the Company of any requirements.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment, efforts ii they held office during the two preceding AGMs are made to retain them in their current employment but did not retire at either of them: or or to explore the opportunities for their retraining or iii not being Chairman of the Board, they held redeployment within the Group.
The Group also non-executive office for a continuous period of provides financial support to disabled employees who nine years or more at the date of that AGM: and are unable to work, as appropriate to local market conditions.
d shareholders to have the power to remove any Director by special resolution.
The Groups principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its employees are through employee appraisals, Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring informal consultations, team briefings, and staff Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The office of conferences and surveys.
Managers throughout the Director shall be vacated if the Director resigns, becomes Group have a continuing responsibility to keep their staff bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director fully informed of developments and to communicate or where the Board so resolves following the Director financial results and other matters of interest.
This is suffering from mental ill-health or being absent from achieved by structured communication including regular Board meetings for 12 months without the Boards meetings of employees.
The Group has clear grievance and disciplinary Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles of procedures in place, which include comprehensive Association for the periodic retirement of Directors, in procedures on discrimination and the Groups equal accordance with emerging best practice the Board has opportunities policy.
The Group also has an employee decided it would be appropriate for all Directors to assistance programme which provides a confidential, submit to reappointment every year.
Accordingly at the free and independent counselling service and is available AGM to be held on 7 July 2010 all the Directors will to all staff and their families in the UK.
retire from office at the Annual General Meeting as will Sir Adrian Montague who has been appointed a Director There are clearly defined staff policies for pay and with effect from 1 June 2010.
All these Directors, working conditions.
The Groups employment policies including Sir Adrian Montague, are eligible for, and, save are designed to provide a competitive reward package for Baroness Hogg who is stepping down as Chairman at which will attract and retain high quality staff, whilst the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, seek, ensuring relevant costs remain at an appropriate level.
The Boards recommendation for the reappointment of Directors is set out in the 2010 Notice of AGM.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 70 70 The Groups remuneration policy is influenced by market b 300 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement conditions and practices in the countries in which it dated 15 July 2009, between the Company, operates.
All employees receive a base salary and are 3i Holdings plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc, eligible for a performance-related bonus.
Where The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Socit Gnrale, appropriate, employees are eligible to participate in Group Commerzbank AG, London Branch, Standard share schemes to encourage employees involvement in Chartered Bank, UBS Limited, Bank of Ireland and the performance of the Group.
Investment executives JPMorgan Chase Bank N. A. London Branch in relation may also participate in co-investment plans and carried to the provision of a multi-currency revolving credit interest schemes, which allow executives to share directly facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under in any future profits on investments.
Employees this agreement, the Company would be required to participate in local state or company pension schemes as notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc in its capacity as agent for appropriate to local market conditions.
the banks, within five days of any change of control of the Company.
Such notification would open a negotiation period of 20 days from the date of the Charitable and political donations change of control to determine whether the Charitable donations made by the Group in the year to Majority Lenders as defined in the agreement 31 March 2010 amounted to 407,490.
Detail on these would be willing to continue to make available the donations is provided in the full Corporate responsibility facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement report, which can be found in the Additional information and if so required by the Majority Lenders, amounts section of our Reporting centre and in the CR section of outstanding would be required to be repaid and the our Investor relations website, www.
facility cancelled: In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March c 100 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement 2010 no donations were made to political parties or dated 17 September 2009, between the Company, organisations, or independent election candidates, and 3i Holdings plc and Nordea Bank AB publ in relation no political expenditure was incurred.
to the provision of a multi-currency revolving credit facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under Policy for paying creditors this agreement, the Company would be required to The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with notify Nordea Bank AB publ within five days of any the terms and conditions of the relevant markets in change of control of the Company.
Such notification which it operates.
Expenses are paid on a timely basis in would open a negotiation period of 20 days from the ordinary course of business.
The Company had no the date of the change of control to determine trade creditors outstanding at the year end.
3i plc had whether Nordea Bank AB publ would be willing to trade creditors outstanding at the year end representing continue to make available the facility and, if so, on on average 11.5 days purchases.
Failing agreement and if so required by Nordea Bank AB publ, amounts outstanding would be required to be repaid and the facility cancelled: Significant agreements As at 31 March 2010 the Company was party to the d 200 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement following agreements that take effect, alter or terminate dated 4 November 2009, between the Company, on a change of control of the Company following a 3i Holdings plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc in relation to takeover bid: the provision of a multi-currency term and revolving credit facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
a 486 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement Under this agreement, the Company would be dated 20 September 2005, between 3i Holdings plc, required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc within five Barclays Capital, Bayerische Landesbank, London days of any change of control of the Company.
Such branch, Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Limited, notification would open a negotiation period of 20 HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank days from the date of the change of control to of Scotland plc, Socit Gnrale, UBS Limited, determine whether Lloyds TSB Bank plc would be WestLB AG, London branch and the Company, in willing to continue to make available the facility and, relation to the provision of a multi-currency revolving if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so credit facility to 3i Holdings plc and the Company.
required by Lloyds TSB Bank plc, amounts Under this agreement, the Company would be outstanding would be required to be repaid and the required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc, in its capacity facility cancelled: as agent for the banks, within five days of any change of control of the Company.
Such notification would open a negotiation period of 50 days from the date of the change of control to determine whether the Majority Banks as defined in the agreement would be willing to continue to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so required by the Majority Banks, amounts outstanding would be required to be repaid and the facility cancelled.
If no such requirement was imposed by the Majority Banks, any dissenting bank could require amounts outstanding to it to be repaid and cease to participate in the facility: 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 71 e Limited Partnership Agreements dated 12 July Statement of Directors responsibilities 2006, between 3i EFV GP Limited, 3i Europartners V The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. KG, the Company and Report and the Group financial statements in accordance other investors from time to time in relation to the with applicable United Kingdom law and those formation of partnerships to carry on the business of International Financial Reporting Standards which have investing as the fund known as 3i Eurofund V. Under been adopted by the European Union.
these agreements, the manager, 3i Investments plc, would be required to notify the investors of any Under Company Law the Directors must not approve change of control of the Company.
If such a change the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied of control occurs before the end of the relevant that they present fairly the financial position, financial investment period, the managers powers to make performance and cash flows of the Group for that new investments on behalf of the partnerships period.
In preparing the Group financial statements the would be suspended unless the investors had given Directors: consent before the change of control occurred.
a select suitable accounting policies in accordance with Where suspension occurs, the investors may consent IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting at any time before the end of the investment period Estimates and Errors and then apply them to the resumption of the managers powers: consistently: f Limited Partnership Agreements dated 24 March b present information, including accounting policies, in 2010, between 3i GC GP Limited, the Company, a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable other 3i entities and other investors from time to and understandable information: time in relation to the formation of partnerships to carry on the business of investing as the fund known c provide additional disclosures when compliance with as 3i Growth Capital Fund.
Under these agreements, the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to the manager, 3i Investments plc, would be required enable users to understand the impact of particular to notify the investors of any change of control of transactions, other events and conditions on the the Company.
If such a change of control occurs Groups financial position and financial performance: before the end of the relevant investment period, d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, the managers powers to make new investments on subject to any material departures disclosed and behalf of the partnerships would be suspended explained in the financial statements: and unless the investors had given consent before the change of control occurred.
Where suspension e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable occurs, the investors may consent at any time before and prudent.
the end of the investment period to the resumption The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that of the managers powers: and proper accounting records are kept which are sufficient g 3i Group plc 430,000,000 3.625 per cent to show and explain the Groups transactions and convertible bonds due 2011 the bonds.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Condition 6 of the terms and conditions of the financial position of the Group and enable them to bonds sets out the conversion rights of the holders ensure that the Group financial statements comply with of the bonds and the calculation of the conversion the Companies Act 2006.
They also have a general price payable.
The conversion price will decrease responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably if a Relevant Event occurs.
Condition 6 b x sets open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and out the definition of Relevant Event and the to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and In summary, a Relevant Event occurs if an offer is Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of made to all or as nearly as may be practicable all their knowledge that: shareholders to acquire all or a majority of the issued shares of the Company or if any person proposes a a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with scheme with regard to such acquisition other than a applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair Newco Scheme as defined and such offer or view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and scheme having become unconditional in all respects profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings the right to cast more than 50% of the votes which included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and may ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general meeting b the Directors report includes a fair review of the of the Company has or will become unconditionally development and performance of the business and vested in the offeror and or an associate as defined the position of the Company and the undertakings of the offeror.
Condition 7 d of the terms and included in the consolidation taken as a whole conditions of the bonds gives bondholders an early together with a description of the principal risks and redemption option early repayment at face value uncertainties that they face.
plus accrued interest upon a Relevant Event occurring.
The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on pages 64 and 65.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 72 72 Going concern The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation to the financial statements for the year to 31 March 2010.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review section.
The financial position of the Group, its capital structure, gearing and liquidity positions are described in the Financial review section.
The Groups policies on risk management, including treasury and funding risks, are contained in the Risk section.
Further details are contained in the financial statements and notes including, in particular, details on financial risk management and derivative financial instruments.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have considered the uncertainties inherent in current and expected future market conditions and their possible impact upon the financial performance of the Group.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has and will maintain sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue operating in the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
Audit information Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the Directors confirms that: a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
Appointment of auditors In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to members at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board K J Dunn Company Secretary 12 May 2010 Registered Office: 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 73 At the AGM in July 2009, shareholders renewed the Corporate governance statement Boards authority to allot ordinary shares and to buy-back Corporate governance ordinary shares on behalf of the Company subject to Throughout the year, the Company complied with certain limits.
At the AGM in July 2009, shareholders the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code authorised the Board to buy-back B shares on behalf of on corporate governance published by the Financial the Company subject to certain limits.
Details of the Reporting Council in June 2008. authorities which the Board will be seeking at the 2010 AGM are set out in the 2010 Notice of AGM.
The Companys approach to corporate governance The Company has a policy of seeking to comply with The Articles of Association also specifically empower established best practice in the field of corporate the Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow governance.
The Board has adopted core values and money and to mortgage or charge the Companys assets global policies which set out the behaviour expected of and any uncalled capital and to issue debentures and staff in their dealings with shareholders, customers, other securities.
colleagues, suppliers and others who engage with the The Board determines matters including financial strategy Company.
One of the core values communicated within and planning and takes major business decisions.
The the Group is a belief that the highest standard of integrity Board has put in place an organisational structure.
This is is essential in business.
further described under the heading internal control.
The Boards responsibilities and processes Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall The table below shows the number of scheduled management of the Group and may exercise all the meetings attended by Directors during the year to powers of the Company subject to the provisions of 31 March 2010 and, in brackets, the number of relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to and any directions given by special resolution of the these meetings a small number of ad hoc meetings were shareholders.
The Articles of Association empower the held to discuss specific items as they arose.
Board to offer, allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of the unissued shares of the Company on such terms as the Board may decide.
The Articles of Association empower the Board to issue and buy-back shares, which powers are exercisable in accordance with authorities approved from time to time by shareholders in general meeting.
Audit and Compliance Nomination Remuneration Valuations Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 6 4 2 7 3 Number attended: Baroness Hogg 6 6 2 2 7 7 3 3 M J Queen 6 6 2 2 3 3 1 J M Allan 4 4 2 2 1 1 3 3 2 A R Cox 3 3 2 2 1 1 R H Meddings 6 6 4 4 1 2 3 W Mesdag 6 6 1 2 7 7 1 1 C J M Morin-Postel 6 6 4 4 1 2 7 7 4 Lord Smith of Kelvin 2 3 1 2 0 1 4 4 5 O H J Stocken 4 4 0 1 2 2 R W A Swannell 6 6 4 4 2 2 3 3 6 J S Wilson 2 2 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2009 and to Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee on 1 October 2009.
2 Appointed to the Board and Nominations Committee on 1 October 2009 and to Audit and Compliance Committee on 1 November 2009.
3 Appointed to Valuations Committee on 1 January 2010.
6 On leave of absence for maternity from 7 April 2009 to 1 March 2010.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 74 74 Matters reserved for the Board Meetings of the Board The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters The principal matters considered by the Board during reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for the year in addition to matters formally reserved to the decision.
These include: Board included: approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan the strategic plan, budget and financial resources: and annual operating budget: the Groups capital structure, including the Companys approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual rights issue: financial statements and changes in the Groups regular reports from the Chief Executive: accounting policies or practices: the recommendations of the Valuations Committee changes relating to the capital structure of the on valuations of investments: Company or its regulated status: the Board's risk appetite and risk tolerance: major capital projects: the business model and its application by different major changes in the nature of business operations: business lines: and investments and divestments in the ordinary course independence of non-executive Directors.
of business above certain limits set by the Board from time to time: Information Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a adequacy of internal control systems: timely manner in preparation for Board and committee appointments to the Board and Management meetings.
These papers are supplemented by Committee: information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
principal terms and conditions of employment of members of Management Committee: and Performance evaluation changes in employee share schemes and other During the year, the Board conducted its annual long-term incentive schemes.
evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation was Matters delegated by the Board to management externally facilitated by The Zygos Partnership and the include implementation of the Board approved strategy, results of the process formally reported to the Board.
day-to-day operation of the business, the appointment and remuneration of all executives below Management The Board performance evaluation included Committee and the formulation and execution of risk consideration of the overall functioning of the Board management policies and practices.
including strategic planning, risk management processes, Board balance and succession issues including the A succession and contingency plan for executive criteria for identifying a successor to the Chairman, leadership is prepared by management and reviewed who had announced her intention to retire during 2010. periodically by the Board.
The purpose of this plan is The evaluation found a strong correlation of views on to identify suitable candidates for succession to key the topics considered and clearly shared goals between senior management positions, agree their training and the executive and non-executive Directors.
The Board development needs, and ensure the necessary human continued to identify areas where its working practices resources are in place for the Company to meet its could be developed further.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr R W A Swannell led a review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 75 The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Directors Senior Independent Director The Board comprises the Chairman, six independent The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of non-executive Directors and two executive the Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined and Directors.
Biographical details for each of the has been approved by the Board.
Directors are set out on page 64.
Baroness Hogg Chairman, Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag, The Chairman Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Mr M J Queen, The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of Mr R W A Swannell and Mrs J S Wilson served its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
throughout the period under review.
Mr J M Allan The Chairman is responsible for organising the business and Mr A R Cox served as Directors from 1 September of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting 2009 and 1 October 2009 respectively.
The Chairman has no involvement in the of Kelvin and Mr O H J Stocken served as Directors day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chairman until 31 October 2009 and 31 December 2009 facilitates the effective contribution of non-executive respectively.
Directors and constructive relations between executive and non-executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as that regular reports from the Companys brokers are Directors, non-executive Directors are expected to bring circulated to the non-executive Directors to enable an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, non-executive Directors to remain aware of performance, resources and standards of conduct, shareholders views.
The Chairman ensures effective and to help the Board provide the Company with communication with the Companys shareholders.
They are also expected to ensure high standards of financial probity on the part of the The Chief Executive Company and to monitor the effectiveness of the The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group executive Directors.
on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups Group.
The Chief Executive has formed a committee strategic plan and annual budget, provide the noncalled Management Committee to enable him executive Directors with the opportunity to contribute to carry out the responsibilities delegated to him to and validate managements plans and assist in the by the Board.
The Committee comprises the development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors executive Directors, Mr K J Dunn, Mr I M Nolan, receive regular management accounts, reports and Mr J B C Russell, Mr R Stefanowski, Mr P Waller, and information which enable them to scrutinise the Mr G A R Zarzavatdjian.
The Committee meets on a Companys and managements performance against regular basis to consider operational matters and the agreed objectives.
implementation of the Groups strategy.
Directors independence Senior Independent Director All the non-executive Directors other than the Throughout the year Mr R W A Swannell served as Chairman, who was independent on appointment Senior Independent Director, to whom, in accordance were considered by the Board to be independent with the Combined Code, concerns were able to be for the purposes of the Combined Code in the conveyed.
year to 31 March 2010 with the exception of Mr O H J Stocken who served as a Director until 31 December 2009 and who was considered non-independent having served as a non-executive Director for in excess of nine years.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the non-executive Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships rather than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the financial period that was significant in relation to the business of the Company.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 76 76 Directors employment contracts Audit and Compliance Committee Details of executive Directors employment contracts The Audit and Compliance Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on comprises Mr R W A Swannell Chairman, page 87.
Mr J M Allan, Mr A R Cox, Mr R H Meddings, and Mme C J M Morin-Postel, all of whom served Training and development throughout the period, save for Mr J M Allan and The Company has developed a training policy which Mr A R Cox who served from 1 October 2009 and provides a framework within which training for Directors 1 November 2009 respectively.
Lord Smith of is planned with the objective of ensuring Directors Kelvin served as a member of the Committee understand the duties and responsibilities of being a until 31 October 2009.
All the members of the director of a listed company.
All Directors are required to Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
update their skills and maintain their familiarity with the The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman, Company and its business continually.
Presentations on Mr R W A Swannell, has recent and relevant financial different aspects of the Companys business are made experience.
On appointment, all nonexecutive Directors have discussions with the Chairman During the year, the Committee: and the Chief Executive following which appropriate reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, the environment of the Group and the Groups Companys business and the Companys procedures compliance with its regulatory requirements and are arranged.
The Company provides opportunities received reports on bank covenants, third-party for non-executive Directors to obtain a thorough liabilities and off balance sheet liabilities: understanding of the Companys business by meeting members of the senior management team who in turn reviewed and recommended to the Board the arrange, as required, visits to investment or support accounting disclosures comprised in the half-yearly teams.
and annual financial statements of the Company and reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan The Company has procedures for Directors to take and the external audit findings: independent legal or other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the valuation of the Groups investment assets: The Boards committees received regular reports from the Groups internal The Board is assisted by various standing committees audit function, monitored its activities and of the Board which report regularly to the Board.
effectiveness, and agreed the annual internal The membership of these committees is regularly audit plan: reviewed by the Board.
When considering committee membership and chairmanship, the Board aims to ensure received regular reports from the Groups regulatory that undue reliance is not placed on particular Directors.
compliance function and Group Risk Management Committee, and monitored their activities and These committees all have clearly defined terms of effectiveness: reference which are available at www.
The terms of reference of the Audit and Compliance oversaw the Companys relations with its external Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the auditors including assessing auditor performance, Nominations Committee provide that no one other independence and objectivity, recommending the than the particular committee chairman and members auditors reappointment and approving the auditors may attend a meeting unless invited to attend by the fees: and relevant committee.
met with the external auditors in the absence of management.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 77 Remuneration Committee Valuations Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr J M Allan The Valuations Committee comprises Baroness Hogg Chairman, Baroness Hogg, Mr W Mesdag and Chairman, Mr M J Queen, Mr W Mesdag, Mme C J M Morin-Postel, all of whom served Mr R W A Swannell and Mrs J S Wilson, all of whom throughout the period, save for Mr J M Allan who served throughout the year save for Mr W Mesdag who served from 1 October 2009.
Lord Smith of Kelvin served from 1 January 2010.
Mr O H J Stocken served served as Chairman and member of the Committee until as a member until 31 December 2009.
All the current members of the During the year, the Valuations Committee considered Committee are independent non-executive Directors, and made recommendations to the Audit and save for Baroness Hogg who was independent on Compliance Committee on valuations of the Groups appointment as Chairman of the Board.
investments to be included in the half-yearly and annual Details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are financial statements of the Group and reviewed set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Nominations Committee The Company Secretary The Nominations Committee comprises All Directors have access to the advice and services of Baroness Hogg Chairman, Mr M J Queen, the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is Mr J M Allan, Mr A R Cox, Mr R H Meddings, responsible for advising the Board, through the Mr W Mesdag, Mme C J M Morin-Postel and Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Mr R W A Swannell, all of whom served throughout the Articles of Association and the schedule of matters year, save for Mr J M Allan and Mr A R Cox who served reserved to the Board or its duly authorised committees from 1 October 2009.
Lord Smith of Kelvin and for decision provide that the appointment and removal Mr O H J Stocken served as members of the Committee of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
until 31 October 2009 and 31 December 2009, Relations with shareholders respectively.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining During the year, the Nominations Committee: a purposeful relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Finance established a sub-committee to consider candidates Director, together with the Group Communications to succeed Baroness Hogg as Chairman: Director, meet with the Companys principal institutional considered and recommended two candidates for shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
appointment as non-executive Directors of the The Chairman maintains a dialogue with shareholders Company, being Mr J M Allan and Mr A R Cox: and on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration as required.
considered the size, balance and composition of the Board.
The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers on shareholder issues and non-executive Directors are A formal, rigorous and transparent process for the invited to attend the Companys presentations to appointment of Directors has been established with the analysts and are offered the opportunity to meet objective of identifying the skills and experience profile shareholders.
required of new Directors and identifying suitable candidates.
The procedure includes the appraisal and The Companys major shareholders are offered the selection of potential candidates, including in the case opportunity to meet newly-appointed non-executive of non-executive Directors whether they have Directors.
sufficient time to fulfil their roles.
Specialist recruitment The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to consultants assist the Committee to identify suitable communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, candidates for appointment.
The Committees business presentations are generally made by the Chief recommendations for appointment are put to the full Executive and the Finance Director.
The Chairmen of the Board for approval.
Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and Nominations Committees are generally available to answer shareholders questions.
During the year, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Companys major shareholders met with the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Company Secretary to discuss matters of corporate governance and corporate responsibility relevant to the Company and its shareholders.
The 2009 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made available on the Companys website.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
