3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41 approval of the appointment and removal The principal matters considered by Corporate governance of the Investment Adviser and periodic the Board during the year included: review and continued approval of key report the Companys strategy, budget agreements with service providers, The Companys approach to and financial resources: including the Investment Advisory corporate governance the Companys capital structure, balance Agreement with 3i Investments: The Company is committed to the highest sheet efficiency and taxation approval of major changes in the nature of standards of corporate governance.
arrangements: business operations or investment policy: It observes the requirements of the approval of investment decisions: Combined Code on Corporate Governance approval of investments and divestments: published by the UK Financial Reporting review of portfolio asset performance: approval of portfolio company valuations Council in June 2008 the Combined Code, review of counterparty exposure and limits: and review of the performance and plans a copy of which is available from the Financial for each portfolio company: Reporting Council website www.
uk, review of the Companys hedging strategy: as modified by Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2 and review of the adequacy of internal control review of regular reports from the to the extent applicable to the Company, systems including those operated by Investment Adviser relating to the given that it has no Executive Directors.
independent service providers: and infrastructure market and early stage Throughout the year, the Company observed work-in-progress: appointments to the Board and determination the provisions of section 1 of the Combined of terms of appointment of Directors.
Code on the basis set out above, with two review the recommendations of the exceptions: given the size and composition of Investment Adviser on the valuation Meetings of the Board the Board, the Company does not have a of investments: The Board is required to meet a minimum Remuneration Committee, and also did not of four times a year.
A calendar of nine the Companys share price performance have a Nominations Committee until one was scheduled main Board meetings was agreed and shareholder perceptions following established on 28 September 2009.
On at the start of the year.
Due to the nature the release of financial information: remuneration, the Board as a whole instead of the Boards close involvement in the reviews the scale and structure of the review of the risk management operation of the Company and in making Directors remuneration, taking into account arrangements, internal controls and the investment-related decisions, a number the interests of shareholders and the investment approval process: of further meetings are arranged at shorter performance of the Company.
During the year, there were nine review of the corporate responsibility main meetings of the Board of Directors.
The Board has adopted a code of Directors initiatives and performance: In addition to these meetings, there were dealings in ordinary shares, which is based review of the relationship with 3i Group plc two full Board meetings arranged at short on the Model Code for Directors dealings as a shareholder: notice and nine meetings of specifically contained in the Listing Rules the Model formed committees of the Board.
The Board is responsible for taking review of the performance of key service Directors attendance at main Board all proper and reasonable steps to ensure providers to the Company: meetings is set out in the table below: compliance with the Model Code by review of the independence of the Directors.
Directors: and Directors attendance The Boards responsibilities review of updates to UK and Jersey law.
Number of and processes meetings whilst Information The Board is responsible to shareholders for a Director Attendance Reports and papers are circulated to the the overall management of the Company.
Peter Sedgwick 9 9 Directors in a timely manner in preparation It determines matters including financial Philip Austin 9 9 for Board and committee meetings.
These strategy and planning and takes all investment Sir John Collins 9 8 papers are supplemented by information decisions, taking into account the advice 1 specifically requested by the Directors from Martin Dryden 2 2 it receives from the Investment Adviser.
2 The Board has put in place an organisational Charlotte Valeur 5 5 structure.
This is further described under 3 Peter Wagner 8 5 the heading internal control.
Paul Waller 9 8 The Board has approved a formal schedule Steven Wilderspin 9 9 of matters reserved to it and the Audit 1 Served until the Companys AGM on 7 July 2009.
These include: 2 Appointed with effect from 29 September 2009.
3 Served until 5 February 2010. approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual operating budget: approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies or practices: approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or its regulated status: 3i Infrastructure plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance continued During the financial year to 31 March 2010, Performance evaluation Directors the Directors were due the following: During the year, the Board conducted a The Board comprises the Chairman and five emoluments in the form of fees: formal evaluation of its own performance non-executive Directors.
Biographical details Directors fees and that of its committees, including the for each of the Directors are set out on Total fees Total fees Audit Committee, and individual Directors page 37.
Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, Year to Year to with the assistance of Dr Tracy Long from Sir John Collins, Paul Waller and Steven 31 March 31 March Boardroom Review, a specialist consultancy.
Wilderspin served throughout the year under Director 2010 2009 The Chairman led the process.
Charlotte Valeur served as a Director Peter Sedgwick 130,000 115,000 members gave personal views from 29 September 2009.
Martin Dryden Philip Austin 50,000 45,000 to the Chairman and the Chairman gave served as Director until the Companys AGM 1 Sir John Collins 45,000 11,250 feedback to the Board.
Additionally, the on 7 July 2009 while Peter Wagner served 2 Senior Independent Director, Philip Austin, led until 5 February 2010.
Martin Dryden 12,644 43,500 3 a review by the Directors of the performance Charlotte Valeur 22,745 No Director has a service contract with of the Chairman.
Following the completion 4 Peter Wagner 61,950 71,500 the Company, nor are any such contracts of the above process the Board: 5 proposed.
The Directors were appointed as Paul Waller 42,000 41,000 noted the significant role the Investment non-executive Directors by the subscribers Steven Wilderspin 46,500 42,500 Adviser undertook in the Companys asset to the Memorandum of Association of the 1 Appointed on 27 November 2008. management and determined to receive Company or at subsequent Board meetings.
2 Served until the Companys AGM on 7 July 2009.
3 Paid fees with effect from appointment on 29 September more regular updates on operational Their appointment was confirmed by letters 2009.
4 Served until 5 February 2010. performance of its portfolio companies dated 29 January 2007 in the case of Peter 5 Fees paid to 3i Investments.
from the Investment Adviser: Sedgwick, Philip Austin and Martin Dryden, 16 February 2007 in the case of Peter In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities determined the scope of control reviews Wagner, 27 March 2007 in the case as Directors, the Directors are expected to being conducted by the Investment of Paul Waller, 20 September 2007 in the bring an independent judgment to bear on Adviser.
case of Steven Wilderspin, 27 November issues of strategy, performance, investment The Chairman 2008 in the case of Sir John Collins and appraisal and standards of conduct.
They are The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the 28 September 2009 in the case of Charlotte also expected to ensure high standards of Board in the determination of its strategy Valeur and re-confirmed with letters dated financial probity on the part of the Company.
and in the achievement of its objectives.
7 July 2009 in the case of Philip Austin, The Directors receive monthly management The Chairman is responsible for organising Paul Waller and Sir John Collins, who were accounts, reports and information which the business of the Board, ensuring its re-elected or elected at the 2009 AGM.
enable them to scrutinise the Companys effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Their appointment is expressed to be subject performance against agreed objectives.
The Chairman also acts as a manager of to the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors independence 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings The Directors appointment can be terminated, All the Directors, with the exception of Paul S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg without compensation for loss of office, in Waller, are considered by the Board to be S. r. l. which are subsidiaries of the Company accordance with the Articles of Association.
independent for the purposes of the Combined and receives no additional remuneration for Under the Articles, their appointments can Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the these roles.
The Chairman facilitates the inter alia be terminated on notice from the independence of each of the Directors at effective contribution of all the Directors and other members of the Board, and also on least annually, having regard to the potential constructive relations between the ceasing to be a Director, if they retire by relevance and materiality of a Directors Companys advisers, including the Investment rotation and are not re-elected.
Paul Waller is interests and relationships, rather than applying Adviser, and the Directors.
The Chairman required to retire and seek re-election every rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No ensures, that regular reports from the year and the other Directors are required to Director was materially interested in any contract Companys advisers are circulated to the retire by rotation at least once every three or arrangement subsisting during or at the Directors to enable Directors to remain years.
Steven Wilderspin is retiring by rotation end of the financial year that was significant aware of shareholders views.
The Chairman this year and Charlotte Valeur is standing for in relation to the business of the Company.
ensures, with the cooperation of the election, having been appointed to the Board Investment Adviser, that a programme of Training and development since the last AGM.
Of the other Directors, effective communications is available for The Company has developed a framework Philip Austin was re-elected last year and shareholders, including with the Chairman within which training for Directors is planned, Peter Sedgwick was re-elected the year before.
and Senior Independent Director, when with the objective of ensuring Directors The remuneration of each of the Directors shareholders so wish.
understand the duties and responsibilities was subject to fixed fee arrangements, and of being a director of a listed company.
Senior Independent Director none of the Directors received any additional All Directors are required to update their Philip Austin is the Senior Independent remuneration or incentives in respect of his or skills and maintain their familiarity with Director.
In accordance with the Combined her services as a Director of the Company.
the Company and its business continually.
Code, concerns can be conveyed to the Presentations on different aspects of the Senior Independent Director.
Companys business are made regularly to the Board, most commonly by the Investment Adviser.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 43 On appointment, all Directors have discussions The Board is assisted by an Audit Committee reviewed the calculation of the advisory with the Chairman, following which appropriate which reports regularly to the Board.
The and performance fees of the Investment briefings on the responsibilities of Directors, membership of this committee is regularly Adviser with advice from the auditor, in the Companys business and the Companys reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee line with the policy of the Audit Committee procedures are arranged.
The Company has clearly defined terms of reference which concerning conflicts of interest and the provides opportunities for Directors to obtain are available at www.
payment of fees for non-audit services: a thorough understanding of the Companys The terms of reference of the Audit and business and the industry it operates in by Committee provide that no one other than met with the external auditors in the meeting senior members of the investment the chairman and members may attend absence of the Investment Adviser.
advisory team who in turn can arrange, as a meeting unless invited.
The Audit Committee has reviewed auditor required, visits to portfolio investments Audit Committee performance during the year and concluded or support teams.
The Audit Committee comprises Steven that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as During the year the Directors received Wilderspin, Philip Austin, Sir John Collins and the Companys auditors should be continued.
training, briefing or advice on the following: Charlotte Valeur, all of whom served Investment Committee throughout the year, save for Charlotte valuation techniques, including discounted As outlined on page 38, the Board as a whole Valeur, who served from 29 September cash flow methodologies: acts as the Investment Committee.
Martin Dryden and Peter Wagner changes in Listing Rules and legal update in served on the Audit Committee until they The Company Secretary relation to changes to laws and regulations resigned from the Board, on 7 July 2009 The Company has appointed Mourant & Co. in Jersey and the UK: and and 5 February 2010 respectively.
The Secretaries Limited as Company Secretary.
qualifications of the members of the Audit the role of the non-executive Director.
All Directors have access to the advice and Committee are set out in the biographical services of the Company Secretary and The Directors attended a number of details of the Directors on page 37.
All the legal advisers to the Company, who advise seminars, meetings and conferences on the members of the Audit Committee are the Board, through the Chairman, on review of the Combined Code and other independent non-executive Directors.
The Companys Articles governance issues, and also received The Board is satisfied that the Audit of Association and the schedule of matters presentations on specific aspects of the Committee chairman, Steven Wilderspin, reserved for the Board or its duly authorised Companys business.
The Company has has recent and relevant financial experience.
committees for decision provide that procedures for Directors to take independent During the year, there were five meetings the appointment and removal of the legal or other professional advice about the of the Audit Committee.
The members who Company Secretary would be a matter performance of their duties.
served throughout the year attended all for the full Board.
The Boards committees meetings, with the exception of Charlotte On 1 April 2010, State Street Corporation Due to the structure of the Company, having Valeur, who attended the three meetings held acquired from Mourant Limited the vehicles no employees or executive management, since her appointment, Peter Wagner, who that conduct Mourant International Finance the Company does not have a Remuneration attended two out of the four meetings held Administrations business including Mourant Committee.
In conformity with the Combined while he was a Board member, and Martin & Co. Limited and Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Code, the Board as a whole reviews the Dryden, who attended the one meeting Limited: the entities which have been engaged scale and structure of the Non-executive held while he was a Board member.
by the Company to provide administrative Directors remuneration.
During the year, the Audit Committee: and secretarial services.
State Street The Board established a Nominations Corporation is headquartered in Boston, reviewed the effectiveness of the internal Committee constituted of Peter Sedgwick, Massachusetts, USA and trades on the New control environment of the Company and Philip Austin and Sir John Collins at a York Stock Exchange under the symbol STT.
the Companys compliance with its meeting held on 28 September 2009.
As a result of this acquisition, the names of regulatory requirements: The Committee has held one meeting in the certain of the vehicles will be changed on or year to 31 March 2010.
The Committee has reviewed and recommended to the Board before 1 October 2010 to reflect the fact been charged with interviewing potential the accounting disclosures comprised in the that the vehicles no longer form part of the candidates, but final decisions on nominations interim and annual financial statements of Mourant group of companies.
will be taken by the entire Board.
the Company: Relations with shareholders The Nominations Committee normally avails reviewed the scope of the annual external The Board recognises the importance of itself of the services of external search audit plan and the external audit findings: maintaining a purposeful relationship with consultancies, as was the case for the the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman received relevant reports from the Internal appointment of Charlotte Valeur.
maintains a dialogue with shareholders Audit and Compliance functions of key As well as seeking an appropriate balance of on strategy, corporate governance and service providers: expertise and experience, especially in finance Directors remuneration as required.
Senior oversaw the Companys relations and infrastructure, the nominations process members of the investment advisory team with its external auditors, including has to take account of the residence of also meet with the Companys principal assessing independence and objectivity, Directors, as the majority of Directors have institutional shareholders to discuss recommending the auditors reappointment to be non-resident in the UK and for relevant issues as they arise.
and approving the auditors fees: practical reasons relating to the conduct of the Companys affairs most are resident in the Channel Islands.
3i Infrastructure plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance continued The Board receives reports from the The Board has contractually delegated The Company does not have a separate Companys brokers and other advisers on investment advisory and support services to internal audit function as it is not deemed shareholder issues and Directors are invited its key service providers and their contractual appropriate given the structure of the to attend the Companys presentations to obligations encompass the implementation of Company, although this is reviewed analysts and are offered the opportunity systems of internal control, including financial, periodically by the Audit Committee.
operational and compliance controls and risk Principles and processes management.
The Audit Committee and The Company also uses its AGM as an The Company adopts a set of core values Board of the Company receive reports on the opportunity to communicate with its and controls, which include: control systems and their operation from its shareholders.
At the AGM, business a planning framework which incorporates a main service providers, and are responsible presentations are made by the Chairman and Board approved medium-term strategy: for reviewing these reports for determining senior members of the investment advisory the effectiveness of internal controls.
formal business and operating risk reviews team.
The chairman of the Audit Committee which evaluate the potential financial is also available to answer shareholders Key procedures designed to provide effective impact and likelihood of identified risks questions.
The Notice of AGM for 2009 internal control for the year under review and possible new risk areas: was dispatched to shareholders not less and up to the date of this Report include: than 20 working days before the meeting.
the setting of control, mitigation and the Board considers and approves At that meeting, voting on each resolution monitoring procedures and the review Company strategy and approves a budget was taken on a poll and the results were of actual occurrences, identifying lessons on an annual basis: made available on the Companys website.
to be learnt: reports on the planning, forecasting and Portfolio management a comprehensive system of financial controlling of expenditure and the making and voting policy reporting to the Board, based on an annual of investments are regularly submitted to In relation to unquoted investments, the budget with monthly reporting of actual the Board and reviewed in detail: Companys approach is to seek to add value results, analysis of variances, scrutiny of the Investment Advisers procedures for to the businesses in which it invests through key performance measures and regular evaluating investments include detailed the extensive experience, resources and reforecasting: appraisals and due diligence: contacts of the investment advisory team.
regular treasury reports to the Board, In relation to quoted investments, the the Investment Adviser and the service which analyse the funding requirements, Companys policy is to exercise voting providers prepare valuations and track the generation and use of capital and rights on matters affecting the interests management accounts which allow the the volume of liquidity and record the level of the Company.
Board to assess the Companys activities of compliance with the Companys funding and review its performance: Internal control objectives: and The Board is ultimately responsible for the the Investment Advisory and UK Support well defined procedures governing the Groups own system of internal control and Services agreements specifically define appraisal and approval of investments, the Board and the Audit Committee reviewed the roles and responsibilities of the including detailed investment and the systems effectiveness this year.
The Investment Adviser and the service divestment approval procedures, internal control system is designed to manage provider.
These agreements set out incorporating appropriate levels of rather than eliminate the risk of failure to information and reporting systems for authority and regular post-investment achieve business objectives and can provide monitoring the Companys investments reviews.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance and their performance: and against material misstatement or loss.
an Audit Committee which considers the Investment Advisers compliance and significant control matters and receives internal audit department continually relevant reports from key service providers, reviews the Investment Advisers compliance or internal audit functions.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 45 Financials and other information
