Directors report continued Under company law the Directors must not approve Responsibility statement the fi financial statements unless they are satisfi ed The Directors confi rm that to the best of their that they give a true and fair view of the state knowledge: of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and The fi financial statements, prepared in accordance of their profi t or loss for that period.
with the applicable set of accounting standards, In preparing each of the Group and Parent give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities Company fi financial statements, the Directors are and fi financial position and profi t or loss of the required to: Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then The Directors report includes a fair view of the apply them consistently development and performance of the business make judgments and estimates that are and the position of the Company and the reasonable and prudent undertakings included in the consolidation taken for the Group fi financial statements, state whether as a whole, together with a description of the they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS principal risks and uncertainties that they face as adopted by the EU for the Parent Company fi financial statements, Disclosure of information to auditors state whether applicable UK Accounting The Directors who held offi ce at the date of Standards have been followed, subject to any approval of this Directors report confi rm that, so far material departures disclosed and explained in as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit the Parent Company fi financial statements: and information of which the Companys auditor is prepare the fi financial statements on the going unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps concern basis unless it is inappropriate to that he ought to have taken as a Director to make presume that the Group and the Parent himself aware of any relevant audit information and Company will continue in business to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable Auditor accuracy at any time the fi financial position of the The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its indicated willingness to continue in offi ce and fi financial statements comply with the Companies resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise the Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for Directors to fi x its remuneration will be proposed taking such steps as are reasonably open to them at the AGM.
to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent By order of the Board, and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
Mark Waters Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 1 March 2011 and integrity of the corporate and fi financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of fi financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 38 Corporate Governance The Combined Code on Corporate Governance The Admiral Group Board This report sets out the Groups approach to The Board is the principal decision-making forum achieving in 2010 the standards of good corporate for the Group both providing leadership, either governance for which it is accountable to the directly or through its Committees of Directors, and Groups shareholders.
It has been prepared in delegating authority to the Executive team in a accordance with the principles set out in the manner that will promote the success of the Group Combined Code on Corporate Governance the and is consistent with good corporate governance Combined Code, and details the extent to which practice.
The Board is accountable to shareholders the Company has complied with the principles and for setting and achieving the Groups strategic provisions of the Combined Code.
In addition, objectives, for the creation and delivery of strong following the release by the Financial Reporting sustainable fi financial and operational performance Council FRC of the new UK Corporate Governance for ensuring that in carrying out its duties the Code the Governance Code, that became Groups legal and regulatory obligations are being effective for accounting periods beginning on or met and for ensuring that it operates within after 29 June 2010, the Group has considered the appropriately established risk parameters.
The requirements of the Governance Code and is taking Group is responsible to the Financial Services appropriate steps to ensure compliance with them Authority FSA for ensuring compliance with where it does not already do so.
the Groups UK regulatory obligations and for ensuring that dealings with the FSA are handled in The Board complied with the Combined Code a constructive, cooperative and transparent manner.
in all respects during 2010 except for Code D. 1.1, which requires that the Senior Independent The Board has adopted a formal schedule of Director should attend meetings with a range of matters specifi cally reserved to it, which is reviewed shareholders.
The Company has a comprehensive on an annual basis this was last carried out on programme of meetings and dialogue with 24August 2010.
Matters reserved to the Board institutional investors, and the Chairman had include the approval of: individual meetings with the majority of the largest The Groups long term objectives and 10 such investors.
The views of investors expressed corporate strategy through this dialogue are communicated to the Operating and capital budgets, fi financial results, Board as a whole on a regular basis through the and any signifi cant changes to accounting investor relations report.
All Directors can, practices or policies therefore, develop an understanding of issues or The Groups capital structure concerns of major shareholders should any be Results and fi financial reporting raised.
Feedback from shareholders suggests that The maintenance and review of the system these arrangements for communication between of internal control and risk management the Company and its shareholders continue to be The Groups overall risk appetite viewed by them as effective.
The Senior Changes to the structure, size and composition Independent Director is always available to meet of the Board, including new appointments with individual shareholders on request to ensure Succession plans for the Board and the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns that senior management cannot be resolved through the routine Annual review of its own performance and mechanisms for investor communications.
that of its Board Committees Key business policies in relation to health and safety and environmental matters Dividend policy and proposals for dividend payments Major acquisitions, disposals, and other transactions outside delegated limits Review of the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 39 Corporate Governance continued The Board met on seven occasions in 2010 with six by one-to-one discussions between each Director of these meeting being held over two days.
The and the external consultant where the Boards role Board also held a strategy day and visited its and structure, process, relationships, and any operations in Italy.
These overseas visits are used to emerging issues were discussed.
combine the formal business of the Board with an The overall results of the evaluation were opportunity for Board members, through informal summarised in a report prepared by the external discussion with local management, to obtain a consultant who also presented the principal deeper understanding of local market conditions recommendations for review and discussion by the and gain an appreciation of the operational and Board in February 2011. strategic challenges faced by each of the Groups overseas operations.
The Chairman visits each of The evaluation concluded that good progress had these operations every year.
In addition, the been achieved in most of the areas identifi ed for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman met action in the last independent Board review in 2007 during the year without the Executive Directors and that the Board and its Committees had being present.
Agendas and papers are circulated continued to work very effectively in relation to to the Board in a timely manner in preparation for most dimensions.
In addition, the Chairman has Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are concluded that each Director contributes effectively supplemented by information specifi cally requested and demonstrates full commitment to his her by the Directors from time to time.
The following emerged as areas of particular therefore, able to bring independent judgement to focus going forward: bear on issues such as strategy, risk management, Non-Executive rotation as individual Directors performance, and resources.
Additional meetings reach their maximum term over the next are called when required and there is frequent four years contact between meetings, where necessary, to Maintenance of Non-Executive knowledge and progress the Groups business.
understanding of an increasingly broad and The Company Secretary complex business All the Directors have access to the advice and Moving still further the balance of Board services of the Company Secretary.
He has consideration towards the strategic and away responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures from the operational are followed and for advising the Board, through Agreeing clear criteria for the evaluation of the Chairman, on governance matters.
The performance by line of business and how most Company Secretary provides updates to the Board effectively to report this to the Board on regulatory and corporate governance issues, The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises new legislation, and Directors duties and annually the performance of the individual obligations.
The appointment and removal of the Executive Directors.
The Chairman, taking into Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved account the views of the other Directors, reviews for the Board.
the performance of the Chief Executive.
The Board effectiveness performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the The performance and effectiveness of the Board Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior and its Committees is fundamental to the success Independent Director SID, taking into account of the Group and there is a rigorous evaluation the views of the Executive Directors.
Following each year to assess how well the Board, its the latest review, the SID considered and discussed Committees, the Directors and the Chairman are with the Chairman the comments and feedback performing.
In accordance with the Groups policy relating to the Chairmans performance, that had of every three years using an external consultant been received from the Directors as part of the to carry out a formal review of the Boards Board evaluation questionnaire.
Following these performance, an external consultant, who has no discussions with the Chairman, the SID was able to connection with the Company, was used by the confi rm that the performance of the Chairman Group to lead the evaluation process in 2010. continues to be effective, and that the Chairman continues to demonstrate appropriate commitment The evaluation process consisted of the to his role.
completion, by all Directors, of a comprehensive questionnaire evaluating the performance of the Directors are expected to attend all meetings of Board and its Committees.
The questionnaire the Board and the Committees on which they serve considered Board processes and their effectiveness: and to devote suffi cient time to the Group to Board composition, Board objectives, Board perform their duties.
The number of full Board support, content of discussion and focus at Board meetings and Committee meetings of which they meetings and invited Directors to indicate where are a member attended by each Director during specifi c improvements could be made.
Completion 2010 is provided in the table opposite.
of the questionnaire by each Director was followed Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 40 The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive has determined that Colin Holmes remains The Board has approved a statement that sets out independent in character and judgement and that the clear division of responsibilities between the his holding of a cross-directorship will not affect his Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman ability to present an objective, rigorous and is primarily responsible for the leadership and constructive challenge to the assumptions and workings of the Board, setting its agenda, and viewpoints presented by management and the monitoring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is not Board nor will it affect his time commitment to the involved in the day-to-day management of the role.
Colin Holmes will be subject to election by business.
Save for matters reserved for decision by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General the Board, the Chief Executive, with the support of Meeting AGM.
the other Executive Directors, is responsible for The Board has accepted the Nominations proposing the strategy to be adopted by the Group: Committees assessment of the independence of the running of the business in accordance with the the six Non-Executive Directors and is not aware of strategy agreed by the Board: and implementing any relationships or circumstances which are likely specifi c Board decisions relating to the operation to affect, or could appear to affect, the judgement of the Group.
The statement of division of of any of them.
In the view of the Board, the responsibilities and matters reserved for decision independent Non-Executive Directors are of by the Board were reviewed in December 2010. suffi cient calibre and number that their views carry Board balance and independence signifi cant weight in the Boards decision making The Board currently comprises eleven Directors, the and that they are free from any relationship or Chairman who was independent on appointment, circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, three Executive Directors, six independent Nontheir independent judgement.
Executive Directors, and one Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors are currently Director, Manfred Aldag, who is employed by appointed for fi xed periods of three years, subject a signifi cant shareholder and is not, therefore, to election by shareholders.
The initial three-year considered independent.
There is no requirement period may be extended for two further three-year that the signifi cant shareholder has representation periods, subject to re-election by shareholders.
on the Board and, accordingly, Mr Aldags Their letters of appointment may be inspected at appointment is subject to the same appointment the Companys registered offi ce or can be obtained and removal process as the other Board Directors.
on request from the Company Secretary.
In December 2010 the Board appointed Colin Although the Chairman has served in his role since Holmes as an independent Non-Executive Director.
June 2000 the Board remains of the view that he Appointments to the Board are the responsibility should continue in offi ce notwithstanding that he of the Board as a whole, acting on the advice and has completed in excess of nine years as Chairman recommendations of the Nominations Committee.
and the Companys leading institutional investors Colin Holmes appointment followed a formal, have also confi rmed their support for the Boards rigorous and transparent procedure implemented express intent.
The Chairman, along with all the and led by the Nominations Committee.
Although Directors, will now seek election by shareholders Colin Holmes holds, with Alastair Lyons, a crossannually.
directorship in Bovis Homes Group Plc, the Board Scheduled Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Total meetings held 7 6 3 8 Alastair Lyons Chairman 7 3 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive 7 David Stevens Chief Operating Offi cer 7 Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Offi cer 7 Manfred Aldag 5 Colin Holmes 1 1 Martin Jackson 7 6 8 Keith James 7 6 3 Margaret Johnson 7 6 8 Lucy Kellaway 7 3 John Sussens 6 7 Colin Holmes was appointed to the Board on 3 December 2010.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 41 Corporate Governance continued The Chairman does perform a number of other operates: and any other signifi cant changes Non-Executive roles outside the Group and details affecting the Group and the industry of which it of these, together with the Chairmans other is a part.
All Board members are also encouraged commitments, are included in the Chairmans to attend relevant training courses at the biography.
The Board continues to be satisfi ed that Companys expense.
these other commitments are not such as to The Board receives presentations from senior interfere with the performance of his duties within managers within the various Group companies on the Group and will not impact on his ability to a regular basis and opportunity is also created for allocate suffi cient time to discharge his Non-Executive Directors to make informal visits to responsibilities to the Group effectively.
different parts of the Group and to meet with local John Sussens has been appointed as the Senior management.
He is Relations with shareholders available to shareholders if they have concerns that The Company attaches considerable importance contact through the normal channels of Chairman, to communications with shareholders and engages Chief Executive, or Chief Financial Offi cer has failed with them on a variety of issues.
The Investor to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Relations team has day-to-day primary responsibility He is also responsible for leading the Boards for managing communications with institutional discussion on the Chairmans performance and the shareholders through a combination of briefi ngs to appointment of a new Chairman, when appropriate.
analysts and institutional shareholders, both at the In accordance with the requirement under the half-year and full year results.
A number of analysts Governance Code for annual election of Directors and investors visited the Groups Cardiff offi ce and the best practice guidance that has been during the year to meet with the Executive issued, all Directors will be submitting themselves Directors and senior management in order to get for re-election by shareholders at the forthcoming a better understanding of how the Group operates AGM.
The Board is satisfi ed that all of the and how it intends to achieve its strategic and Directors that are seeking election or re-election operational objectives.
Senior executives from the by shareholders are properly qualifi ed for their Groups overseas businesses also visit the UK in appointment or reappointment by virtue of their order to present to, and meet with, analysts and skills and experience and their contribution to the investors.
Site visits and individual discussions with Board and its Committees.
the Executive Directors are also arranged throughout the year with individual shareholders.
The Directors are given access to independent Regular dialogue with shareholders helps to ensure professional advice at the Groups expense, that the Companys strategy is understood and that should they deem it necessary, to carry out their any issues are addressed in a constructive way.
In addition the Chairman had individual meetings Professional development during the year with major shareholders, and On appointment, Directors take part in a reported to the Board on issues raised with him.
comprehensive induction programme where they receive fi financial and operational information about This is supplemented by feedback to the Board the Group: details concerning their responsibilities on meetings between management and investors.
and duties: as well as an introduction to the Groups External analysts reports are circulated to all governance, regulatory and control environment.
In addition, the Investor Relations team produces a monthly Investor Relations Report that This induction is supplemented by visits to the is circulated to the Board.
The Report contains an Groups head offi ce in Cardiff, overseas offi ces, and analysis of share price performance: a summary of meetings with members of the senior management analyst reports received during the month and of team and their departments.
Development and meetings that have been held with investors and training of directors is an ongoing process.
analysts: together with details of any signifi cant Throughout their period in offi ce the Directors are changes to the shareholders register.
regularly updated on the Groups business: legal matters concerning their role and duties: the The Companys AGM provides a valuable competitive environments in which the Group opportunity for the Board to communicate with its shareholders all of whom are invited to attend the AGM.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, and Nominations Committees attend the AGM along with the other Directors and are available to answer shareholders questions on the activities of the Committees they chair.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 42 Shareholders are also invited to ask questions The Audit Committee during the meeting and have an opportunity to Constitution and membership meet with Directors after the formal business of the The membership at the end of the year was meeting has been concluded.
Details of proxy Martin Jackson Chairman, Keith James, Margaret voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, Johnson and Colin Holmes appointed 3December are made available on request and are placed on 2010.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Companys website following the meeting.
Appointments to the Committee are made on the recommendation of the The Group maintains a corporate website Nominations Committee and are for a period of www.
co. uk containing a wide up to three years, which may be extended for two range of information of interest to institutional and further three-year periods, provided the Director private investors.
The Committee meets at Confl icts of Interest least three times per year and has an agenda linked In compliance with the requirements of the to events in the Companys fi financial calendar.
Companies Act 2006 regarding Directors duties in The Committee has formal terms of reference, relation to confl icts of interest, the Groups Articles which were reviewed by the Committee during the of Association allow the Board to authorise year and approved by the Board in December 2010. potential confl icts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits as it thinks fi t. The Company has The Board considers that the members of the put in place updated procedures to deal with Committee have the appropriate competence and confl icts of interest.
These procedures include each experience to carry out their duties and further Board member completing, annually, a confl ict of considers that Martin Jackson Committee interest questionnaire that sets out any situation in Chairman has the appropriate recent and relevant which they, or their connected persons have, or fi financial experience having held the position of could have, a direct or indirect interest that could Group Finance Director of Friends Provident Plc confl ict with the interests of the Company.
Any between 2001 and 2003 and being a fellow of the current Directorships that they, or their connected Institute of Chartered Accountants, which imposes persons hold, any advisory roles or trusteeships requirements for Continuing Professional held, together with any companies in which they Development.
In addition, Colin Holmes is a hold more than 1% of the issued share capital are Chartered Management Accountant and has also disclosed.
These confl ict of interest procedures considerable recent and relevant fi financial have operated effectively throughout 2010. experience having previously been the UK Finance Director for Tesco PLC and until 2010 a member of Board Committees its Group Executive Committee.
The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees to deal with matters The Committee is kept up to date with changes to in accordance with written terms of reference.
Accounting Standards and relevant developments The principal Committees of the Board Audit, in fi financial reporting, company law, and the various Remuneration, and Nominations all comply fully regulatory frameworks through presentations from with the requirements of the Combined Code.
the Groups external auditors, Head of Finance, and They are all chaired by an Independent Director Company Secretary.
In addition members are and exclusively comprise, or, in the case of the provided with information on seminars and Nominations Committee where the Chairman conferences provided by external bodies.
The of the Board is a member, have a majority of, Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee include Independent Directors.
The Committees are all the matters suggested by the Code and have constituted with appropriate written terms of been updated in accordance with the requirements reference that are reviewed annually to ensure that of the Governance Code.
they remain appropriate and refl ect any changes Other individuals such as the Chief Financial Offi cer, in good practice and governance.
These terms Chief Operating Offi cer, Chief Executive, Chairman of reference are available on request from the of the Board, the heads of Risk, Compliance, and Company Secretary and can also be found on the Internal Audit and representatives of different parts Companys website: www.
of the Group may be invited to attend all or part of The minutes of the Committee meetings are also any meeting as and when appropriate.
The external circulated to the Board.
Committees are authorised auditors are invited to attend meetings of the to obtain outside legal or other independent Committee on a regular basis.
professional advice if they consider it necessary.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 43 Corporate Governance continued The Chairman of the Committee reports to the re-tender should be reviewed at least every fi five subsequent meeting of the Board on the key issues years and if deemed appropriate a tender for covered by the Committee, and the Board also external audit services would be carried out.
The receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
last such tender was undertaken in 2006.
Following The Chairman of the Committee attends the AGM the annual external audit effectiveness review the to respond to any shareholder questions that might Committee concluded that the auditor, KPMG was be raised on the Committees activities.
fi t for purpose and recommended that a re-tender process should not be undertaken in 2010 but that Summary of key activities during 2010 the relationship and the effectiveness of KPMG During the year the Committee reviewed the should be kept under review.
following: In accordance with agreed parameters, the The Annual Report and interim results expanding overseas operations in Spain and Italy Reports from the Internal Audit departments have or will have their own locally based internal within the Group on the effectiveness of the auditors report to the respective country heads.
Groups risk management and internal control Notwithstanding this, the UK Internal Audit procedures, details of key audit fi findings, and department also carries out reviews of the quality actions taken by management to manage and and effectiveness of these overseas Internal Audit reduce the impact of the risk identifi ed functions and where no such function exists reviews Effectiveness of the Groups system of the overall system of risk management and internal internal control including within its overseas controls in the overseas businesses.
operations, particularly gaining assurance that the compliance, internal control The Head of Internal Audit in the UK is invited and risk management processes were to all Committee meetings and provides a range operating effectively of presentations and papers to the Committee, Reports from the external auditors on through which the Committee monitors the their proposed audit scope, fees, audit, and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
auditor independence The overseas internal auditors attend Committee Performance of the internal audit department meetings periodically.
Committee members receive The effectiveness of the Groups arrangements copies of all Internal Audit reports and are given the in relation to its whistleblowing procedures opportunity to raise questions on the content and recommendations contained within the reports.
The The Committee reviewed its policy on non-audit Committee approves the Internal Audit services that, amongst other things, requires that programmes at the start of each calendar year and the Committee approve all proposals for the activities: the effectiveness and workload of the expenditure with the Groups auditors of over Internal Audit functions and the adequacy of 30,000 on non-audit services.
The policy was last available resources are monitored throughout the reviewed on 14 November 2010.
The Groups year against progress made in achieving the plans.
auditors, KPMG Audit plc, provide some non-audit services, the majority of which comprise compliance The Audit Committee has unrestricted access to services related to various taxation issues within the Company documents and information, as well Group, and which are not considered by the as to employees of the Company and external Committee to compromise their independence as professional advisers.
The level of non-audit fees is reviewed at During the year, the Committee received each Committee meeting and details are included presentations from senior managers on the risk in the Annual Report.
management procedures that are in place in their During the year the Committee carried out a review key departments in order that the Committee could of its policy of carrying out a tender process for consider and evaluate the nature of the risks that external audit services every fi five years other than in each key department faces and gain assurance as exceptional circumstances.
It was agreed that a to the appropriateness and effi cacy of the Groups decision on whether to complete an external audit risk management and risk mitigation procedures.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 44 The Committee also approves the annual members, the Board decided to initiate a search compliance review plan and receives copies of the for an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Head of Compliance, who Nominations Committee led this process.
The has responsibility for the Compliance and Risk balance of skills, knowledge and experience on management functions, provides the Committee the Board was evaluated, and the Committee with quarterly Compliance and Risk Reports developed the appropriate specifi cation identifying summarising activities in these areas.
the need for the successful candidate to have recent and relevant fi financial experience in order In addition to the evaluation of the Committees that they may replace the existing Audit Committee effectiveness undertaken by the Board, the Chairman, Martin Jackson, at such time as Committee also carried out a more detailed review he decides to step down from that role.
The of its own performance.
As part of the review Committee instructed external consultants process, each Committee member completed a to advise on and lead the identifi cation and comprehensive online questionnaire designed to shortlisting of potential candidates.
All members produce objective assessment of the Committees of the Committee interviewed the shortlisted performance, including its effectiveness in candidates and unanimously recommended to the monitoring internal and external audit.
The Board that Colin Holmes should be appointed to Committee discussed the results of the review and the Board.
The Board approved the Committees it was concluded that the Committee and the audit recommendation and Colin Holmes was formally process was effective: that the Committee had appointed to the Board on 3 December 2010. appropriate terms of reference: and that it had achieved its remit.
During 2010, the Committee continued to discuss with the Executive team the succession planning The Nominations Committee across the Group to identify and develop those The membership at the year-end was Keith James individuals within the organisation who have the Chairman, Lucy Kellaway, and Alastair Lyons.
potential and necessary skills to succeed the current The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to members of the Executive team and senior the Committee.
The Committee invites the management.
The Committee, at the meeting Chief Executive to attend meetings when it in October 2010 considered the Groups current deems appropriate.
Succession Plan together with a Training and The Committee has formal terms of reference, Development Plan that had also been produced.
which were reviewed during the year and were The Succession Plan considered the senior roles approved by the Board in December 2010.
The within the Group and identifi ed whether there was Committee met on three occasions during 2010. emergency short-term cover in place in the event that the individual left the organisation, whether The Committee leads the process for making there was a permanent replacement available within appointments to the Board or where the appointee the organisation, or whether the position would is likely to become a Board member.
The need to be fi lled externally.
It also identifi ed where Committee ensures there is a formal, rigorous and there were individuals who would be capable of transparent procedure for the appointment of new moving into particular senior management roles Directors to the Board through a full evaluation of following the gaining of further experience.
In the skills, knowledge and experience required of addition, the Training and Development Plan Directors.
The Committee also ensures plans are in identifi ed those individuals within the Group who place for orderly succession for appointments to it was felt could become permanent replacements the Board, and reviews the succession plans for for senior roles on receipt of the necessary training other senior management positions.
for making senior management appointments rests with the Chief Executive.
The Committee remained satisfi ed that succession plans for Directors and senior management are in During 2010, based on an assessment of the size place to ensure the continued ability of the Group of the Board, the balance of its composition and to implement strategy and compete effectively in the length of service of some of the existing Board the markets in which it operates.
Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 45 Corporate Governance continued The Committee continues to review the current Internal control and risk management size, structure, and composition of the Board, to The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups assess whether further appointments are necessary system of internal control and, through the Audit to maintain an appropriate balance of skills and Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of experience within the Board, thereby ensuring that these systems.
The systems of internal control over it can continue to provide effective leadership of business, operational, fi financial, and compliance the Company to support its successful operation risks are designed to manage rather than eliminate within the various marketplaces in which it operates.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Remuneration Committee assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The membership at the year-end was John Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson, Margaret Johnson The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing and Colin Holmes appointed 3 December 2010. process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the the Groups internal controls: that it has been in Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief place for the year ended 31 December 2010: and Executive and Chairman to attend meetings where that, up to the date of approval of the Annual it deems appropriate.
Report and Accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control The Committee has formal terms of reference which guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
were reviewed and updated during the year and were approved by the Board in December 2010.
A key element of the control system is that the The Committee met eight times during 2010.
Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in During the year the Committee carried out the place an organisational structure with clearly following activities: defi ned lines of responsibility.
In order to ensure Reviewed the Groups overall remuneration these responsibilities are properly discharged, the policy and strategy Board has delegated the task of supervising risk Recommended for approval individual management and internal control to the Risk remuneration packages for Executive Directors, Management Committee RMC in the UK and and the Company Secretary appropriate management Committees for the Reviewed the rules and performance measures of Groups other UK and overseas entities.
the Group share schemes and recommended for There are several key elements to the risk approval the grant, award, allocation or issue of management environment throughout the Group.
shares under such schemes These include the setting of risk management A separate remuneration report is included within policy at Board level: enforcement of that policy by the Report and Accounts.
the Chief Executive: delivery of the policy by the RMC and the Groups other UK and overseas During the year the Committee purchased entities via the Groups systems of internal control consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
In and risk management: and the overall assurance addition, the Company Secretary circulates market provided by the Audit Committee that the systems survey results as appropriate to enable the operate effectively.
The Board recognises that the Committee to make judgements on the levels of day-to-day responsibility for implementing these remuneration appropriate for the Directors and policies must lie with the Executive team whose to review the remuneration of the Groups senior operational decisions must take into account risk executives.
PwC also provided advice on the and how this can be controlled effectively.
The structure of the Groups share plans during the year.
Head of Compliance and the Risk Offi cer take responsibility for ensuring management are aware of their risk management obligations: providing them with support and advice: and ensuring that the risk management strategy is properly communicated.
The head of each business unit or business area is required, with the support of the Risk Offi cer, to undertake a full process of Admiral Group plc | Annual Report 2010 46
