Corporate governance 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance Shareholder engagement Length of service: Non-Executive Directors In July 2010, the FRC published the UK as at 31 December 2010 Stewardship Code.
This is aimed at enhancing the quality of engagement between institutional investors and companies to help improve long-term returns to shareholders andthe efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
The BG Group Board supports the objectives of the UK Stewardship Code and recognises the importance of maintaining Sir Robert Wilson anongoing relationship with the Companys 0-2 years 5 years Chairman shareholders based on frequent and 2-5 years purposeful dialogue, particularly around strategy, performance, risk management, andgovernance generally.
More details of At the time of the publication of the Annual BGGroups approach to engaging with Report last year, the Financial Reporting shareholders are set out on page 53.
Council FRC was concluding its review of theCombined Code.
In June 2010, the FRC Compliance with the Combined Code Caio Koch-Weser and Patrick Thomas were published the new UK Corporate Governance The Governance report on pages 50 to 57 is appointed to the Board on 1 November and Code the Code.
The Code applies to designed to provide shareholders with a clear 15December 2010 respectively.
I believe that BGGroup from 1 January 2011.
BGGroup and comprehensive summary of the Groups Caios experience in international finance and iscommitted to operating inaccordance governance arrangements by reference to the government affairs and Patricks international withthe highest standards ofcorporate Combined Code as it applied to the Company industrial experience will further enhance the governance and has already implemented in 2010, as well as the new aspects of the knowledge, skills and experience of the Board.
thenew requirements in theCode, including Codewhich have already been adopted.
annual re-election of alldirectors at this years TheDirectors believe that the Company On 21 December 2010, the Company announced Annual General Meeting AGM.
hascomplied with the provisions set out in that it intended to appoint Fabio Barbosa Section1 of the Combined Code throughout totheBoard as Chief Financial Officer on Risk management and internal controls the year ended 31 December 2010.
The UK 31March 2011 following Ashley Almanzas Risk in a company such as BGGroup arises in Listing Rules also stipulate that listed decision to step down from his role as Chief many different forms.
Broadly speaking, risks companies must include in their annual report Financial Officer after almost nine years in the fallinto one of several categories: geopolitical: a statement ofhow the company has applied role.
I believe Mr Barbosas extensive financial commercial: technical: safety and the main principles set out in Section 1 of the leadership experience and strong track environmental: project execution: and Combined Code.
The following Corporate recordin creating shareholder value will be organisational capacity.
Clearly, there is no single governance report provides an explanation of asignificant asset to the Group.
His depth of template for addressing and managing such the Groups approach to each ofthose principles.
knowledge of Brazil, which is likely to be the diverse risks.
For this reason, among others, the single largest investment destination for the Board devotes considerable time to discussion The Board Company during this decade, will also be of ofrisks and their means of mitigation.
In June 2010, the Board met for its two-day obvious value to the Group.
annual planning conference to discuss the A key theme of the Code is an increased Companys growth plans and a number of Biographical details of these Directors can be focuson risk management and on the strategic issues, including the evolution of found on pages 46 and 47. responsibility of boards to determine the global oil and gas markets.
One of the key nature andextent of the risks they are willing elements of BGGroups growth strategy is the I believe that, with these appointments, the to take in achieving their strategic objectives.
development of coal seam gas in Queensland, Board will continue to have the appropriate The Code also introduced an explicit obligation Australia for export as liquefied natural gas balance of skills, experience, independence for boards to review the effectiveness of risk viathe two-train 8.5 million tonne per annum andknowledge of the Company to enable management systems aswell as internal Queensland Curtis LNG QCLNG Project.
The the Directors to discharge their duties control systems.
Board visited the Groups business in Australia and responsibilities effectively.
in September 2010 to see for itself how QCLNG BGGroup has always had a clear focus on was progressing.
More details of that visit are identifying and managing its risks, and set out on page 52. continues to do so.
During the year, the Audit Committee, onbehalf of the Board, reviewed As I note in my statement on page 9, there the effectiveness of the risk management and have been a number of changes to the Board Sir Robert Wilson internal control systems which form part of the since the publication of the last Annual Report, Chairman Groups Internal Control Framework.
Further including the appointment of three new details of these reviews are set out on page 54 Directors.
All Directors are subject to election of this report.
Details of BGGroups Principal by shareholders at the first annual general risks and uncertainties and approach to risk meeting following their appointment by the management are set out on pages 34 to 39.
Accordingly, Caio Koch-Weser, Patrick Thomas and Fabio Barbosa are all standing forelection for the first time.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 51 Compliance with the Combined Code Number of Board meetings 2010 As a UK-listed company, BGGroup is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions Sir Robert Wilson 8 8 in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year in review and, where the provisions have Frank Chapman 8 8 not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
BGGroup is also required to explain howit Ashley Almanza 8 8 has applied the principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code which are set out below.
Martin Houston 8 8 Peter Backhouse 8 8 A Directors C Accountability and audit 1 Jrgen Dormann 6 8 The Board Financial reporting 2 Caio Koch-Weser 1 1 Chairman and Chief Executive Internal control Baroness Hogg 8 8 Board balance and independence Audit Committee and auditors Dr John Hood 8 8 Appointments to the Board Sir David Manning 8 8 Re-election to the Board D Relations with shareholders Mark Seligman 7 8 Information and professional development Dialogue with institutional shareholders Lord Sharman 7 8 Performance evaluation Constructive use of the annual 3 Patrick Thomas n a generalmeeting Philippe Varin 7 8 B Remuneration 1 Jrgen Dormann retired from the Board on 31 December 2010 The level and make-up of remuneration 2 Caio Koch-Weser joined the Board on 1 November 2010 Procedure 3 Patrick Thomas joined the Board on 15 December 2010.
A Directors annual two-day planning conference.
The Groups strategy, to reviewing and monitoring The Board conference, held in June 2010, focused on the the performance ofmanagement, the integrity The Board is responsible to BGGroups evolution of global oil and gas markets and of financial information and the systems of risk shareholders for creating and delivering theGroups plans for future growth, as well management and internal control.
sustainable shareholder value through the ashow these would be resourced.
The Board management of the Groups businesses within also considered the Groups response to the Baroness Hogg is the Senior Independent the Governance Framework.
The Governance BP Macondo blow-out and its implications for Director.
Her responsibilities include meeting Framework is set out on pages 54. the industry as a whole.
For further details see major shareholders as an alternative point of The way we work on pages 40 to 43. contact to the Chairman, Chief Executive or The Boards role is to set the Groups strategy, Chief Financial Officer.
The role of the Senior and to ensure that necessary resources are Chairman and Chief Executive Independent Director is clearly established, available, and that appropriate controls, values The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are setout in writing and agreed by the Board.
and standards arein place, to deliver it.
As separate and their responsibilities are clearly Thedescription of the role is published on wellasoversight responsibility for financial delineated, set out in writing and agreed by BGGroups website.
The Senior Independent performance, internal controls and risk the Board.
The descriptions of the roles and Director is expected to commit at least three to management of the Group, theBoard has responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief four days per year to the role, and significantly aformal schedule of matters specifically Executive are also available on BGGroups more in exceptional circumstances.
This is in reserved to it for decision.
The Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, is addition to the expected time commitment in approving material capital projects, responsible for the workings and leadership her capacity asa Non-Executive Director and investments and disposals: the Groups ofthe Board and for the balance of its Chairman ofthe Remuneration Committee.
long-term finance plan and annual capital and membership.
The Chief Executive, Frank revenue budget: any interim dividends, and Chapman, is responsible for leading and The Board considers all of its Non-Executive recommending the final dividend: and any managing the business within the authorities Directors to be independent and free of any changes in the capital structure of the delegated by the Board.
business relationship or other circumstance Group.
A full list of the matters reserved that could compromise the exercise of to the Board is published at Board balance and independence independent and objective judgement.
com aboutbg The Board is currently made up of a Toassist in determining independence, the Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Board undertakes an annual review of the Directors are expected, wherever possible, Directors including the Chief Executive independence of its Non-Executive Directors toattend all Board meetings, relevant andthe Chief Financial Officer and nine in accordance with the criteria set out within Committee meetings and the AGM.
The Board independent Non-Executive Directors.
has regular scheduled meetings throughout Board believes there is an appropriate balance the year and holds additional meetings, as and between Executive and Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors are appointed by when necessary.
Directors and that this balance is further theBoard for an initial three-year term.
enhanced by the varying lengths of service Subsequent re-appointment is subject to During 2010, the Board met eight times.
ofthe Non-Executive Directors, which are review by the Nominations Committee.
Details of the Directors attendance at depicted in the chart on page 50.
A list of the Following the Boards implementation of the eachofthe Board and principal Committee individual Directors, their biographies and provisions of the Code, all Directors will be meetings during 2010 are set out with this details of their committee membership are subject to re-election by shareholders annually report.
Within the scheduled meeting provided on pages 46 and 47. with effect from the AGM in 2011. programme, the Chairman met withthe Non-Executive Directors without theExecutive The Non-Executive Directors have a broad By the date of the 2011 AGM, two Non-Executive Directors being present.
range of experience gained in a variety of Directors, Peter Backhouse and Lord Sharman, private sector and government backgrounds.
will have served on the Board for more than In addition to those scheduled meetings, the The Non-Executive Directors contribution is nine years.
In accordance with the Combined Board focuses on the Groups strategy at an key to the formulation and development of the Code, it is for the Board to determine whether, BG Group www.
com A year of delivery Corporate governance 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued BOARD VISIT TO AUSTRALIA Board visits are considered key to ensuring The Board received detailed briefings on QGCs QGC management provided detailed that the Directors maintain an understanding existing business and the QCLNG Project to briefings on topics including the Groups of the operational issues that affect the convert coal seam gas CSG into liquefied growth strategy in Australia, sub-surface Group.
Typically, the Board undertakes one natural gas for exportmarkets.
engineering, logistics, environmental overseas visit every year.
approvals, stakeholder engagement Board members visited QGCs head office and theQGC drilling programme.
In September 2010, the Board of Directors inBrisbane and were shown CSG extraction visited QGC Pty Ltd QGC, BGGroups operations in the gas fields 300km west of the The Board also received an overview of the whollyowned subsidiary in Australia.
The Board alsotoured the location where social impact management plan developed inBrisbane, meetingsof the Board, Audit QGC isdevelopinga two-train LNG plant on for QCLNG to manage the impacts of, and Committee andSustainability Committee Curtis Island near Gladstone in Queensland.
social benefits from, the project.
Allmeetings focused on issues details of QCLNG, see page 15. specific to QGC, including key business risks and risk management and assurance.
in its view, a director is independent in All Directors are required to notify the Company The Board has concluded that, following the character and judgement and whether there of any situation in which a potential conflict conclusion of the performance evaluation are relationships or circumstances that are ofinterest may arise.
The Board has adopted process described on page 53, the performance likelyto affect, or could appear to affect, the procedures to ensure that all such situations of all of the Directors is effective and that directors judgement.
Serving on the Board areconsidered by the Nominations Committee theyhave each demonstrated, and continue formore than nine years is one of the which, in turn, makes recommendations to the todemonstrate, commitment to the role.
circumstances that is taken into account when Board on whether any such matter should be Biographical details for the Directors can be making that determination.
Principle B1 of authorised by the Board.
For further details on found on pages 46 and 47. theCode also states that the board and its these procedures see page 74. committees should have the appropriate Information and professional development balance of skills, experience, independence The Board has taken into consideration the All Directors appointed to the Board receive andknowledge of the company to enable other commitments of its Non-Executive afull induction programme tailored to their themto discharge their respective duties Directors and is satisfied that these do individual needs, taking into account their andresponsibilities effectively.
notconflict with their duties and time qualifications and experience.
On appointment, commitments as Directors of the Company.
Caio Koch-Weser and Patrick Thomas met with Notwithstanding their length of service, the the Company Secretary to agree their induction Board has determined that Peter Backhouse Appointments to the Board programmes which included meetings and Lord Sharman have retained independence The Board has developed a formal, rigorous and withmembers of the GEC and other senior of character and judgement and neither has transparent procedure for the selection and managers to gain a greater understanding formed associations with the Company that recruitment of directors.
The Nominations of the Groups operations.
might compromise their ability to exercise Committee determines the selection criteria independent judgement.
Lord Sharman for prospective candidates, having regard to Ongoing professional development is provided will retire from the Board after the 2011 the overall balance of skills, knowledge and to all Directors.
In 2010, the Board received AGM.
However, theBoard believes that experience on the Board.
External selection training on reserves booking and accounting Peter Backhouses skills, experience and consultants are retained toidentify those principles for unconventional gas reserves.
knowledge of the Company provide an whosatisfy those criteria.
The Nominations Inaddition, Board offsite visits are considered appropriate balance tothe overallcomposition Committee reviews the profiles of the essential toensuring that Directors have of the Board.
Thechart onpage 50 provides candidates and interviews are carried athorough understanding of the business a breakdown of the length of service ofthe out.
TheCommittee then makes its operations and issues that affect the Group.
Details of the visit made by the Board to the QGC office and sites in Australia during 2010 At the time of his original appointment on Re-election to the Board areset out above.
1January 2004, the Chairman was considered All Directors are subject to election by independent by the Board.
However, in shareholders at the first annual general The Company Secretary is responsible for accordance with the Combined Code, the meeting following their appointment by the advising the Board, through the Chairman, ongoing test of independence for the Board.
In accordance with the UK Corporate onall governance matters.
The Directors have Chairman is not appropriate.
Governance Code, which has been adopted full access to the advice and services of the bythe Board, all other Directors will be subject Company Secretary, who is also responsible All Directors have a statutory duty to avoid to re-election annually.
tothe Board for ensuring that correct Board situations in which they have, or could have, procedures are followed, ensuring effective adirect or indirect interest that conflicts, or Accordingly, Caio Koch-Weser, Patrick Thomas communication flows within the Board may possibly conflict, with the interests of and Fabio Barbosa will stand for election at the anditsCommittees, and between senior theCompany.
That duty is not infringed if the AGM and the remainder of the Board, with the management and Non-Executive Directors, situation cannot reasonably be regarded as exception of Lord Sharman who will retire as a and facilitating induction and assisting with likely to give rise to a conflict of interest, or Director immediately following the conclusion the ongoing professional development ifthe matter has been authorised by the Board.
of the AGM, will stand for re-election.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 53 Board and Executive Committee structure BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHAIRMANS FINANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE RESERVES GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE EXPLORATION & INVESTMENT ENERGY TRADING & GROUP PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE APPRAISAL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE CREDIT RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Board Committee Executive Committee Guidelines are in place concerning the content, Committees in 2011.
In particular, there will be fees can be found in the Audit Committee timeliness and presentation ofBoard and increased focus on progress against schedule and section of this report on pages 55 and 56.
Committee papers from management to budget of the Groups major projects during the ensure that the Board is properly briefed.
coming period of high capital expenditure.
D Relations with shareholders Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the The performance of individual Non-Executive The Board supports the objectives of the UK Board, to each of its Committees other than the Directors was evaluated by the Chairman, with Stewardship Code and welcomes opportunities Audit and Sustainability Committees and to the input from the Committee chairmen and the toengage constructively with shareholders.
The appointment or removal of the Company Executive Directors.
The evaluation of the TheBoard also recognises the importance of Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Chairman was led by Baroness Hogg, the Senior maintaining an ongoing relationship with the Independent Director, and involved individual Companys shareholders based on frequent Directors may obtain independent professional meetings with each of the ExecutiveDirectors, andpurposeful dialogue.
Regular meetings with advice at the Companys expense if they believe followed by a group review with the institutional shareholders are held both in the UK it may be required in furtherance oftheir duties.
Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman.
and internationally by the Chief Executive and theChief Financial Officer and other members Performance evaluation The performance of the Chief Executive was ofsenior management and, where appropriate, The Board believes that the periodic evaluated by the Chairman and Non-Executive the Chairman.
This ensures that the investor involvement of an independent external Directors.
The performance of the Chief community receives a balanced and facilitator in the annual Board evaluation Financial Officer was evaluated by the Chief comprehensive view of BG Groups performance brings an independent perspective to that Executive in consultation with the Chairman and the issues it faces.
It is the Boards established practice and other Non-Executive Directors.
to engage an external facilitator everytwo to The Board regularly monitors the views of three years.
During 2009, theBoard worked The Directors have concluded that, following shareholders and considers reports from its with an independent externalfacilitator to these evaluations, the Board and its Committees investor relations advisers concerning conduct the annual review of the performance operate effectively and also consider that each institutional shareholder feedback.
The and effectiveness of the Board.
Director is contributing effectively and Chairman and Non-Executive Directors demonstrates commitment tothe role.
including the Senior Independent Director In 2010, the Board and Committee evaluations arealso available to meet institutional were facilitated by the Chairman and the B Remuneration shareholders and to discuss any issues orconcerns.
chairmen of the Board Committees, and Details on the level and make-up of the Directors comprised a written questionnaire and, where remuneration and the work of theRemuneration Shareholders may raise issues or concerns by appropriate, a series of one-to-one interviews Committee, as required bythe Combined contacting the Groups Investor Relations team with Board and Committee members.
The Codeand the Directors Remuneration report viathe email communication facility that is interviews covered a number of key areas Regulations 2002, can be found in the available on the Groups website for thispurpose including: strategy, risk and risk management: Remuneration report onpages 58 to 71. or by writing to the CompanySecretary.
managing growth: Board size and composition: the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its C Accountability and audit Constructive use of the AGM Committees: the relationship between theBoard A statement of the Directors responsibilities The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to and management: and ongoing development for reporting the Financial statements, vote on certain aspects of BGGroups business.
Theresults of the including a statement regarding the status It is also an opportunity for those shareholders reviews were considered by the Chairman and the ofthe Company as a going concern, is set who are able to attend to ask questions of the Committee chairmen and were subsequently outon page 75.
Board of Directors, including the Chairmen of discussed with the relevant Committees and the Audit, Remuneration, Sustainability and collectively by the Board as awhole.
Matters Statements concerning BGGroups Internal Nominations Committees, and the Company raised in the course of the evaluation will form Control Framework, the appointment of Secretary.
The Notice of AGM is set out on part of the agenda for theBoard and its external auditors and allocation of non-audit pages 150 to155.
com A year of delivery Corporate governance 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued Governance framework Governance and Stewardship: HSSE: Human Resources: Human Rights: Information Management andSecurity: Social BG GROUP SHAREHOLDERS Performance: and Speak Up Duty to Report.
These new Policies are more clearly aligned with the Business Principles andare mandatory for all BGGroup employees and BOARD OF DIRECTORS contracted staff.
In addition, all of the Groups Standards werereviewed as part ofa comprehensive rationalisation of the ORGANISATION INTERNAL CONTROL INDEPENDENT Groups mandatory controls.
Anumber of AND STRUCTURE FRAMEWORK ASSURANCE updated Standards were issued inJanuary 2011 and further Standards will be issued duringthe year as and when these are Organisation and structure The Boards monitoring role is undertaken revised and updated.
BGGroups organisation and structure are inaccordance with the guidance set out in established and overseen by the Board and theCombined Code and as set out in the Independent Assurance are designed to allow for effective and Committee ofSponsoring Organizations of A key element of BGGroups Governance efficient decision-making and to meet theTreadway Commission COSO framework.
Framework is independent assurance, which corporate governance standards.
A diagram isprovided primarily by Group Audit, illustrating the BGGroup Board Committee BG Groups internal controls provide independent external auditors and other structure is set out on page 53.
The Board has reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance external assurance providers.
Group Audit delegated authority to its Committees on against material loss or mis-statement and are provides assurance to the Board, Audit specific matters, which are set out in written designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Committee, GEC and management that terms of reference.
The membership of each risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
effective and efficient internal control of the Board Committees is detailed below, processes are in place to identify and manage and the terms of reference for the The Board has established processes business risk across the Group.
In particular, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations designedto allow it to assess the Group Audit: Committees are reviewed annually by the effectiveness of the internal control Board and published on BGGroups website, environment within the Group.
Each year, provides an independent assessment of together with the terms of reference for every member of the GEC and theCompany BGGroups system of risk management other Board Committees.
Copies of these Secretary provide Letters of Assurance and internal control: terms of reference are also available from the LoA tothe Chief Executive in relation to assists management by carrying out Company Secretary upon request.
Minutes thecontrol environment in their areas of independent appraisals of the ofthe meetings of Board Committees are responsibility.
These LoAs are supported effectiveness of the internal control circulated to all Directors.
bythe results of the Governance environment and making Self-Assessment GSA process, which recommendations for improvement: and Internal Control Framework  reporting to the BGGroups Internal Control Framework GECandthe Company Secretary to assess supports development of the Groups defines the way in which the Group operates.
theeffectiveness of the core controls governance and business risk It comprises the Groups Business Principles withintheirareas of responsibilities and managementpolicies.
and mandatory Policies and Standards.
 deficiencies or Within these, a series of core controls has materialweaknesses.
The independent external auditors report been identified that contribute to the toshareholders and their audit opinion identification and mitigation of one ormore The Governance Committee reviews the LoAs onthe applicable section of the Financial Group risks.
and the results of the GSA process, and assesses statements are set out on page 78. the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and The Board is ultimately responsible for procedures which have been established to The external reserves consultant, DeGolyer BGGroups risk management and internal ensure the timely and accurate release of &MacNaughton, provides independent controlsystems and oversees the review, information required to be disclosed to the assurance on BG Groups estimates of its gas compliance and assurance processes that market.
The Governance Committee reports the and oil reserves and resources, using itsown have been designed to ensure there is an results of its review to the Audit Committee.
estimation methodology, through arolling effective control environment.
programme of reviews which covers a During 2010, a full review of the design and proportion of the reserves and resources In addition, BGGroup has in place a series operation of the Internal Control Framework portfolio eachyear.
In addition, the ofpolicies, practices and controls in relation was undertaken.
The review concluded that independent oil and gas consulting firm tothe financial reporting and consolidation there was scope to improve the distinction Miller & Lents, Ltd provided independent processes which are designed to ensure between the Groups Policies which support assurance on certain gas and oil resources theidentification and communication of the Groups Business Principles and its other during the year.
changes in accounting standards and the mandatory Standards, and to streamline the reconciliation ofcore financial systems overall number of mandatory controls.
These processes result, a systematic review of all of the Groups aresupported by assurance reviews, including Policies and Standards was undertaken self-certification by management and ongoing leading to the introduction, in January 2011, independent evaluation by Group Audit.
ofeight revised Policies: Ethical Conduct: www.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 55 Board Committees Role of the Committee The Committee also reviewed the processes to The Audit Committee assists the Board in assure the integrity of the Annual Report and fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: Accounts.
In addition to its review of the Audit Committee effectiveness of the risk management and overseeing BGGroups financial reporting internal control systems described below, the process, including the internal control structure Committee also reviewed: and procedures for financial reporting and monitoring the integrity and appropriateness the effectiveness and application of the of the Groups financial statements: reserves and resources booking process for2010: the manner in which the Groups management ensures and monitors the the work undertaken to support the going adequacy of financial, operational and concern statement: compliance internal controls and business risk the management representation letter to management processes designed to manage the external auditors: Mark Seligman significant risk exposures: Chairman of the the effectiveness of the disclosure controls the appointment, remuneration, independence Audit Committee and procedures designed to ensure the Annual and performance of the Groups external Report and Accounts comply with all relevant auditors: and legal and regulatory requirements and that the independence and performance of the information as disclosed therein provides Membership and attendance GroupAudit.
afair view of the Groups business: and 2010 1 Mark Seligman 6 6 the process designed to ensure the external Specifically, the Audit Committee: Peter Backhouse 6 6 auditors are aware of all relevant audit Baroness Hogg 6 6 information, as required by Sections 418 regularly reviews the external and internal Dr John Hood 6 6 and 419 of the Companies Act 2006. audit work plans: Lord Sharman 6 6 2 Patrick Thomas n a oversees and reviews the procedures for Review of QGC Philippe Varin 5 6 thereceipt, retention and treatment of During the visit to Australia in September 1 complaints relating to financial matters, 2010, the Audit Committee reviewed QGCs Committee Chairman 2 Appointed to the Committee on 4 February 2011 internal accounting controls and auditing, operations, governance structures, internal and BG Groups Speak Up whistleblowing controls, key business risks, and risk Mark Seligman succeeded Lord Sharman as the Policy: management and assurance processes.
Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect TheCommittee members visited the requests, receives and reviews reports from from 1 December 2010.
Lord Sharman will QGChead office in Brisbane, its offices in management on actions taken to address risk continue as a member of the Audit Committee Gladstone, and some of the members of areas identified by management and or the until he retires from the Board following the theCommittee visited part of the upstream internal audit process: conclusion of the 2011 AGM.
Further details of the visit by the determined that Mark Seligman and Lord reviews with management and external and Board and Audit Committee to Australia can Sharman, both chartered accountants, have internal auditors the significant risk exposures be found on page52.
recent and relevant financial experience, and the processes established to identify, asrequired by the Combined Code.
monitor, control and report them: Risk management and internal controls The Audit Committee reviewed the annually reviews a control process or the All members of the Committee are deemed effectiveness of the Groups risk management control environment within a specific asset: tobe independent and the Committee has and internal control systems.
The results of concluded that its membership meets the annually evaluates, on behalf of the Board, the this review are set out below.
The Committee requirements of the Combined Code, design and effectiveness of the internal control also reviewed other reports from management notwithstanding that Peter Backhouse and structure, BGGroups financial reporting in relation to internal control and assurance, Lord Sharman have served on the Board for procedures and the Groups disclosure controls fraud risk management and whistleblowing, more than nine years.
Further information and procedures: and and, based on its reviews, has reported to the regarding the independence of the Board on the effectiveness of BGGroups risk annually evaluates the design and Non-Executive Directors is set out on page 51. management and internal control systems effectiveness of the processes established to in2010.
estimate, aggregate and report the Groups The meetings of the Committee are normally various categories of oil and gas reserves attended by the Chairman, the Chief Financial Taking into account the processes that have andresources.
Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the been designed and implemented for 2010, Head of Group Audit and representatives theBoard, with the advice of the Committee, Activities during the year ofthe external auditors.
In addition, the has reviewed the effectiveness of the risk Integrity of financial statements and disclosures Committee meets privately with the internal management and internal control systems for The Audit Committee assists the Board and external auditors at least twice each year.
the period from 1 January 2010 to the date of in assuring the integrity of the Financial The Secretary to the Committee is Alan this Report and is satisfied that the Group statements and related disclosures.
It reviewed McCulloch, Deputy Company Secretary.
hasin place effective risk management and the quarterly financial results announcements, internal control systems.
reported the outcome of its reviews and made recommendations to the Board based on these reviews.
com A year of delivery Corporate governance 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued External auditors Non-audit fees The Committee approved Group Audits plan The Audit Committee manages the The Audit Committee believes that in certain for 2010 and reviewed the staffing levels and relationship with  LLP limited circumstances non-audit work may be qualifications to ensure these were appropriate PwC, the Groups external auditors, on undertaken by the external auditors.
and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
The Committee monitors the external auditors independence and The allocation of non-audit work is considered in Group Audits plan was designed to cover objectivity and, on an annual basis, carries out accordance with the Standard.
The Standard sets areasof higher risk or specific focus across an assessment of the auditors, considering out a pre-approved framework of services, where theGroup.
During the year, the Committee qualifications, expertise, resources and the auditors can apply their existing business received regular reports from the Head of regulatory requirements, together with the knowledge and skill to bring both quality and Group Audit summarising the findings from effectiveness of the audit process.
Following efficiency benefits for the Group.
Group Audits work and the responses from, this assessment, the Committee makes a and action plans established by, management.
recommendation to the Board on the Such pre-approved work is strictly limited and The Committee monitored the progress of the re-appointment of the external auditors isbalanced by a list of work that is specifically most significant action plans to ensure these byshareholders.
prohibited from being undertaken by auditors, were completed satisfactorily.
which includes, among other matters: book During the year, to support the Committees keeping: financial information systems design and assessment of the auditors, the Committee implementation: and management functions and Reserves Committee members and relevant members of services prohibited through local or international The Reserves Committee was established management were interviewed by PwCs client regulation.
In particular, key focus is given to by the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by perspectives team which is independent of the ensuring that the engagement of such services Jrn Berget, Executive Vice President audit team.
The purpose of the interviews was does not: create a mutuality of interest: place the &Managing Director, BG Advance, and to gather a broad range of views about the auditors in a position to audit their own work: includes technical, financial and legal auditors performance during the year and result in the auditors acting as a manager or specialists.
The Committee reviews the how to create further value from the audit employee: or put the auditors in the role of reserves process and approves any process.
The feedback from the interview advocate for BGGroup.
Authority hasbeen amendments to the reserves policy, process was reported to the Audit Committee.
delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman, or in processor guidelines.
It regularly reviews In addition, the Committee reviewed the Audit his absence, any other member of the Committee and challenges the Groups reserves and Inspection Units public report on the 2009 10 to approve any work that does not fall into the resources estimates and, on an annual inspection of PwC.
pre-approved framework and is not specifically basis, reports to the Audit Committee prohibited in accordance with the Standard.
The Reserves After taking these reports into consideration, Committee is supported by the together with the auditors report on their The Committee regularly reviews the nature of CorporateReserves Group which approach to audit quality, the Committee non-audit work performed by the auditors and providesan independent review of all concluded that the auditors demonstrated the volume of that work.
The Committee receives proposed reserves and resources bookings appropriate qualifications and expertise and a quarterly report setting out the non-audit and revisions.
remained independent of the Group and that services provided by PwC and the fees charged.
the audit process was effective.
Therefore, the An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and Committee recommended to the Board that non-audit services provided by PwC for the past PwC be re-appointed as the Groups auditors two years is disclosed in note 3, page 96. for a further year.
The Board accepted this Non-audit services provided by PwC during recommendation and has proposed a theyear included: financial due diligence, resolution to shareholders set out on attestation services and GAAP consultations: page150 for the re-appointment of PwC.
tax compliance and advisory services: data management: and regulatory support.
The Committee also reviewed the auditors engagement letter and determined the Having undertaken a review of the remuneration of the auditors in accordance non-audit services provided during the year, with the authority given to it by shareholders.
the Committee is satisfied that these services The Committee considered the auditors were provided efficiently by the external remuneration to be appropriate.
auditors as a result of their existing knowledge of the business and did not prejudice their The audit engagement partner rotates at least independence or objectivity.
every five years and all other partners and senior management are required to rotate at Group Audit least every seven years in accordance with the The Committee is responsible for overseeing, BGGroup Standard on the Engagement of monitoring and reviewing the operation and External Auditors the Standard.
effectiveness of Group Audit, including its strategic focus, activities and plan, staff numbers Following the conclusion of the 2010 audit and qualifications and budget.
The appointment process and in accordance with the Standard, and removal of the Head of Group Audit is Nicholas Blackwood, who has been lead audit amatter for the Audit Committee.
partner on the BGGroup audit for five years, will be succeeded by Mark King.
com BG Group A year of delivery Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 57 Sustainability Committee The purpose of the Committee is to provide performance in other countries of operation oversight of the implementation of BGGroups tosupport its oversight responsibilities.
Business Principles and the Groups statement of core values and behaviours.
The Committees The Committee also continued to monitor main areas of focus are safety and asset theapproach being taken by QGC in Australia integrity, social performance including inits engagement with government and other community relations and social investment, stakeholders to ensure that BG Group makes the environment and ethical conduct.
The aneffective contribution to sustainable social, Committee also maintains an overview of economic and environmental development policies relating to occupational health and inQueensland.
In particular, the Committee physical security.
Meetings are normally examined water management, land access, attended by the Executive Vice President, native title and heritage issues.
Dr John Hood Policy and CorporateAffairs.
Chairman of the More generally, the Committee is focused on the Sustainability Committee During 2010, the Committee received regular increasing importance of water management reports from management in relation to to BG Group and its stakeholders as a result health, safety, security and environmental ofwaterconsumption associated with shale Membership and attendance performance and oversaw the introduction gasfracing processes and the extraction 2010 ofan enhanced system of asset integrity ofwater from coal seam gas activities.
The Committee continued to oversee TheCommittee has considered water Peter Backhouse 7 7 the Groups sustainability agenda focusing management issues throughout the year and Frank Chapman 7 7 onthe implementation of the Social is overseeing the development of aGroup Martin Houston 7 7 Performance Standard and received reports water management strategy.
For further 2 Caio Koch-Weser n a and presentations from Asset General details, see The way we work on pages 40 to 43.
Sir David Manning 6 7 Managers on social performance strategies Mark Seligman 6 7 inBrazil, Equatorial Guinea, India, Kazakhstan Sir Robert Wilson 7 7 and Tunisia.
The Committee has established 1 Committee Chairman aseries of further presentations on social 2 Appointed to Committee on 15 December 2010 Nominations Committee Chairmans Committee Remuneration Committee Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman The Committees principal responsibility Baroness Hogg Frank Chapman isfor the setting, reviewing and Sir David Manning Ashley Almanza recommending to the Boardfor approval Lord Sharman BGGroups overall remuneration policy and The role of the Chairmans Committee is strategy, and the setting of remuneration toadvise and assist the Chairman in the arrangements for Executive Directors and The role of the Committee is to review the preparation for Board meetings.
Fulldetails of the structure and composition of the Board, to Committee also acts on behalf of the Board Committees responsibilities, and a report identify candidates to fill Board vacancies, between scheduled meetings, within clearly of its activities during the year, are set out andto make recommendations regarding defined delegated authority.
in the Remuneration report on pages 58 theirelection and subsequent re-election by to71.
As noted on page 50, in 2010, Finance Committee theCommittee recommended to the Board Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman the appointments of Caio Koch-Weser, Frank Chapman PatrickThomas and Fabio Barbosa.
In making Ashley Almanza its recommendations, the Committee takes steps to satisfy itself that there are no The Committee is responsible for finance and situations in which the candidate has, or treasury policy decisions.
canhave, a conflict with the business ofthe Company.
Meetings are normally attended During the year, the Committee received bythe Chief Executive.
regular reports in relation to tax and treasury activities, forward gas sales and hedging The Committee also reviewed notifications arrangements.
In addition, the Committee from Directors of situations, such as proposed considered the US bond issue made in external appointments, in which a potential December 2010 and approved, on behalf of the conflict of interest may arise.
Where Board, the offering memorandum in relation appropriate, those situations were referred to that issue.
tothe Board for authorisation in accordance with the procedures adopted by the Board, asdescribed on page 74.
Appointed to Committee on 1 November 2010.
