32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 The Board confirms that the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued in June 2008, have Corporate been complied with for the full year: this report describes how we have applied these in practice.
The Board has also considered the principles of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance Governance AIC Code.
The AIC Code addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies such as Alliance Trust.
The Company has complied with the principles of the AIC Code.
The Company is an investment company and seeks annual approval from HM Revenue and Customs to maintain its status as an investment trust.
The last such approval was granted in respect of the financial year ending 31 January 2009.
The Board The Board sets the Companys objectives, approves its business plans, and provides a framework of prudent controls to enable risk within the business to be managed.
It provides leadership to management and reviews the performance of the business.
The Board at the year end comprised the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
In the course of the year the Board composition changed with the resignation of David Deards on 30 April 2009 and the appointment on 21 September 2009 of Robert Burgess, Chief Executive of Alliance Trust Savings.
On 1 February 2010 Alan Trotter joined the Company as Finance Director.
A summary of the experience of the Directors can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Board Composition All Directors are responsible for the decisions taken by the Board.
The majority of the members of the Board are independent NonExecutive Directors who take no part in the day to day management of the business.
They do, however, play an important part in constructively challenging management, helping to develop strategy and monitoring its delivery using the experience they have gained in other businesses.
In addition to the Directors, various members of senior management attend board meetings and present to the Directors on activities in their area, or in respect of particular concerns or interests of the Directors.
Presentations by investment managers are a regular feature of board meetings.
The Board reserves certain decisions to itself and delegates others to committees or the Executive Directors and management as explained in more detail on pages 33 to 35.
The areas the Board has reserved to itself include: approval of investment strategy and policy decisions on new subsidiary businesses, joint ventures and other arrangements Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 33 approval of treasury policies, banking counterparties and The Chairman and a Non-Executive Director also sit on counterparty exposure limits the Board of Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Asset Management.
approval of Group borrowing limits and the maximum amounts and nature of new bank borrowing facilities In addition to attendance at Board and Committee meetings the Non-Executive Directors are available to management major contracts throughout the year.
approval of the asset classes in which any Group They also met as a group on two occasions during the company may invest year.
These meetings offer the Non-Executive Directors approval of the derivative instruments which any Group the opportunity to discuss management succession and company may use other business or concerns that they have in the absence of Executive Directors.
In the course of the year the Nonapproval of material changes to gearing and the Executive Directors also met without the Chairman present percentage mix of asset allocation by class and geography in order to review her performance major changes in employment and remuneration structures Chief Executive political and charitable donations Katherine Garrett-Cox served as Chief Executive throughout the year.
She also serves on other subsidiary Boards as either any material litigation an executive or non-executive director.
Through the matters reserved to the Board, the powers of individual Directors are restricted to the extent necessary to Executive Directors ensure good governance.
Robert Burgess, Chief Executive of Alliance Trust Savings, Each year, the Board agrees an annual Board Meeting was appointed to the Board on 21 September 2009 to bring programme to ensure that all aspects of the performance his experience to the wider group.
After the year end, on of the Company and its management are reviewed.
The 1 February 2010, Alan Trotter was appointed as Finance following appear as regular Board items: Director to fill the vacancy which had arisen during the year.
Investment Report The Executive Directors also serve on the Boards of subsidiary companies in the Group in either an executive or Asset Allocation non-executive capacity.
Economic Outlook Company Secretary Portfolio Performance The Company Secretary, Donald McPherson, is responsible Trading volume, discount and share buybacks for advising the board on matters of corporate governance and legal compliance.
He is also responsible for Compliance Financial Performance and Risk and the HR function.
The Directors have access Investor Relations at all times to the Company Secretary for information and assistance as required.
The Chairman Board Committees The Chairman is Lesley Knox and her role is clearly established and set out in writing to ensure that her responsibilities are The Board have set up various committees to assist decision differentiated from those of the Chief Executive.
The three principal Board committees are: Senior Independent Director Audit Committee This position is held by Christopher Masters.
The Senior Nomination Committee Independent Director is available for shareholders in the event that it is inappropriate to raise matters with the Chief Executive Remuneration Committee or Chairman and to lead the review of the Chairmans Copies of the Terms of Reference of the Committees will be performance with the other Non-Executive Directors.
available at the Annual General Meeting and are available on the Company website www.
Non-Executive Directors The Company is committed to maintaining a strong representation of independent non-executives on the Board and this is demonstrated by the construction of the Board.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent, none of them having any previous relationship with the Company other than as shareholders.
34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Board and Committee Attendance Remuneration Committee The Board held eight scheduled meetings during the year.
The members are: Details of attendance are set out below.
Christopher Masters Chairman Hugh Bolland Audit Committee John Hylands The members are: Clare Sheikh John Hylands Chairman The role of this Committee is to determine the remuneration Hugh Bolland of the Executive Directors and Chairman and to monitor Christopher Masters and recommend the level and structure of remuneration for other senior management.
The work of the Committee The Board is satisfied that John Hylands has recent and during the year is explained in the Remuneration section of relevant financial experience.
The work of the Committee the report on page 40. during the year is explained in the Accountability and Audit section of the report on page 38.
The following diagram shows the main Board Committees with an overview of their function to demonstrate the risk and governance structure operating within the Company.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Executive Asset Allocation Authorisation Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Monitors effectiveness Setting Ensuring sucession The most senior Management of Authorises of controls and remuneration levels planning in place executive capital allocation signatories of the financial affairs for Directors and for senior roles committee taking between asset Company and senior management and selection of decisions relating to classes and delegated powers directors strategy within the management of business risk within the investment portfolio Risk Committee Operating Equity Strategy Non Executive Committee Review Team Directors only Monitors effectiveness of the Senior management Manages the capital Executive and Non risk framework decisions relating allocated to equities Executive Directors to day to day between the operation of the regional portfolios Executive Director s and business Senior Management Senior Managers BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION Director Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Lesley Knox 8 8 - - - - 3 3 Hugh Bolland 8 8 6 6 7 7 3 3 Robert Burgess 1 1 - - - - - - David Deards 3 3 - - - - - - Katherine Garrett-Cox 8 8 - - - - 3 3 John Hylands 8 8 6 6 7 7 3 3 Christopher Masters 8 8 6 6 7 7 3 3 Clare Sheikh 6 8 - - 5 7 1 3 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 35 Nomination Committee Collective investment funds The members are: Property To approve the allocation of seed capital to funds Lesley Knox Chairman established by subsidiaries of the Company Hugh Bolland Cash, gearing and currency management John Hylands The use of derivative instruments to support any of Christopher Masters the above Clare Sheikh To allocate the capital of the Company to ensure Katherine Garrett-Cox adherence to the dividend policy set by the Board The Committee is responsible for ensuring that there is The Committee, which meets on a monthly basis or more planned succession, so far as possible, at Board level and for often, if required, comprises the Chief Investment Officer, ensuring the proper composition of the Board is maintained.
the Finance Director, the Director of Investment Strategy and the Chief Operating Officer, Investment.
In the course of this year the Committee had to consider the replacement of one Executive Director and whether Executive Committee to appoint another Executive Director to the Board.
In the case of Robert Burgess it was decided that, in addition to This Committee, comprising the Chief Executive and senior his responsibility for leading the development of Alliance management, is the main executive committee providing Trust Savings, his skills and experience would enable him leadership, oversight and communication across the Group.
to make a broader contribution to the deliberations of It focuses on strategy and planning, provides oversight of the Board.
Upon David Deards departure the Committee the Operating Committee and retains key decision making decided to undertake an external search for a replacement authorities.
Finance Director and, while that was being undertaken, to make an interim appointment to carry out the functional Operating Committee responsibilities.
Following an extensive search and detailed This Committee, comprising the Chief Executive and the consideration of a number of candidates the Board senior operational managers, provides a focus on financial appointed Alan Trotter to the role of Finance Director.
and operational performance against the business plan and risk management and is a channel for communication Other Committees amongst senior management.
Various other committees have been established which include Executive Directors and other senior managers.
Risk Committee The following are the major executive committees.
All This committee comprises the Finance Director and the have terms of reference and are attended by the Company senior managers who oversee and review the control, Secretary or his nominee to ensure good governance is monitoring and reporting framework and related procedures followed and decisions properly recorded: for risk management.
It is responsible for ensuring that there is an effective risk management framework for the Group Asset Allocation Committee and, as such, plays an important monitoring role across all The purpose of this committee is to take decisions on the aspects of the organisation ensuring that the risks inherent amount of the Companys capital that should be invested in within the business are under proper control.
There is a separate committee comprising the Chief Investment Officer and the portfolio managers Authorisation Committee who then decide on how the capital allocated to equities is This Committee, comprising the Executive Directors and divided between the different regional equity portfolios.
The other senior managers, considers and approves changes Committee has responsibility for: to signing authorities, approval of banking arrangements, Allocation of the capital of the Company between the appointment of brokers and approval of other administrative following asset classes: arrangements.
It provides oversight and control ensuring that senior management is aware of, and must approve, the Equities and convertibles individuals within the business who are authorised to act on Fixed income securities behalf of the Company.
Variable rate securities Board and Committee evaluation Cash The Board is committed to undertaking annual reviews Private equity of its own performance, and also the performance of its Investment trusts committees and individual Directors.
This can be facilitated 36 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 either internally or, as was the case this year, with external arise.
The unconflicted Directors in each case noted the assistance.
This year the Board decided that the evaluation declarations by the Directors of their other interests and should be facilitated externally and appointed Dr Tracy Long confirmed that at that time none of the interests disclosed of Boardroom Review to undertake the exercise.
The Board were reasonably likely to give rise to a conflict.
An annual last undertook external facilitation in 2007. review of all interests was undertaken as part of the year end process and this was considered by the Board in February The evaluation was undertaken by a series of confidential 2010.
Procedures are in place to allow Directors to request interviews with directors, discussions with the Company authority should it be required outwith the normal Board Secretary and a review of Board and related papers during meeting schedule.
the period between November 2009 and January 2010.
Areas of strength identified were in relation to the Boards Access to advice focus on risks and controls and performance management, All Directors have access to independent professional advice culture and Board dynamics, and engagement with if necessary.
The evaluation identified the changing role of the Board, including the interaction with the Boards of the Director Shareholdings principal subsidiaries, and succession planning as key issues for consideration by the Board over the coming year.
All Directors are required to hold 3,000 shares in the Company and all Directors hold at least that number with The Senior Independent Director led the evaluation of the exception of Alan Trotter who will acquire the requisite the Chairmans performance, which was the subject of holding after the end of the close period.
Full details of discussion at a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, Directors shareholdings can be found on page 43. following completion by them of a questionnaire which was devised to assess Lesley Knoxs performance against a series Major Shareholders of key attributes for a chairman.
The evaluation confirmed that the Chairman was effective in her role.
The table below shows the shareholders which have notified us that they hold more than 3% of our issued share capital, Appointment as a Director or have notified us that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights of ordinary shares of the Company in issue Robert Burgess was appointed on 21 September 2009 and with voting rights.
Their appointments fall to Ordinary shares as notified at 1 April 2010 be confirmed at the Annual General Meeting.
All Directors Alliance Trust Savings are subject to re-election every three years and Katherine Nominees Limited 141,891,607 21.5% Garrett-Cox falls to be re-elected at this meeting.
The DC Thomson & Company Limited individual performance of each Director and their ongoing and John Leng & Company Limited 37,000,000 5.5% suitability for election or re-election was considered and Legal and General Group PLC 27,155,896 4.0% endorsed by the Nomination Committee having regard to their individual performances.
All are recommended for Payment of Creditors election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Groups policy and practice is to pay creditors in accordance with the terms agreed.
At 31 January 2010 the Directors and Officers Indemnification Company had no trade creditors.
The Companys subsidiary The Company provides insurance maximum payable 22 undertaking, Alliance Trust Services Limited, which million in aggregate for legal action brought against its purchases most of the goods and services for the Group Directors as a consequence of their position.
In addition and recharges them to the appropriate entity, had trade separate deeds of indemnity have been agreed with each creditors outstanding at 31 January 2010 representing seven Director indemnifying them as permitted by company law.
The indemnity and insurance does not extend to cover Relationship with Shareholders claims brought by the Company itself which are upheld by All Directors attend the AGM where they have the the Courts, nor to criminal fines or penalties.
Meetings also take place throughout the year with major and institutional Director Development shareholders, such meetings normally being attended by Updates on corporate governance, risk and business issues the Chairman or Chief Executive.
impacting on the Company are provided to the Board on an In addition to these meetings, fora are held during the ongoing basis.
year where individual shareholders are invited to meet Directors and senior managers.
In 2009, approximately Conflicts of Interest 900 shareholders and guests attended these meetings.
The Directors have previously provided details of all interests Invitations to attend are sent also to individuals who hold which potentially could cause a conflict of interest to their shares in the Company through Alliance Trust Savings.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 37 For more details of forthcoming events, please see page 89.
Correspondence received from shareholders by the Chairman and the Chief Executive is routinely circulated to other Directors.
Share Capital and Waiver of Dividends The Companys issued share capital as at 31 January 2010 comprised 667,059,760 Ordinary 2.5p shares of which 1,789,960 have been acquired by the Trustee of the Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee with funds provided by the Company in connection with its employee share plans.
The Trustee has elected to waive all dividends payable in respect of those shares.
Each Ordinary share of the Company is entitled to one vote, but the Trustee cannot vote in respect of the shares held by it on behalf of the Company.
On 14 October 2009 the Company acquired and cancelled 4,850,000 Ordinary 2.5p shares for a total consideration of 15.38 million.
This accounted for approximately 0.72% of the then issued share capital.
Subsequent to the year end on 10 March 2010 the Company acquired and cancelled 6,000,000 Ordinary 2.5p shares for a total consideration of 19.66 million.
This accounted for approximately 0.90% of the then issued share capital.
The Companys issued share capital after this transaction was 661,059,760 ordinary 2.5p shares.
There are no preference shares or shares held in treasury.
Agreements in Respect of Voting Rights The Company has reached an agreement with Alliance Trust Savings whereby its customers shareholdings in the Company will be voted at the AGM in their entirety in the proportions of those customers who give instructions to vote, or abstain, on all resolutions put to the AGM.
Share Buy Back Authority At the last AGM the shareholders renewed the authority originally approved at the EGM held on 10 May 2006, for the repurchase of up to 14.99% of the issued shares.
This authority falls to be renewed at the next AGM.
The Company made use of this provision during the course of the year as detailed above.
Annual General Meeting In addition to formal business, the Chief Executive will present on business developments and there will be an opportunity for questions to be put to the other Directors.
This year, there will be proposals to confirm the notice period for convening general meetings other than Annual General Meetings and to renew the share buy back authority.
All Directors plan to attend and other senior managers will also be present.
Details of the business of the meeting will be sent to all shareholders.
38 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Audit Committee Accountability In addition to reviewing and recommending to the Board the Financial Statements of the Company, the Audit and Audit Committees main role is to review changes in the business which require consequent changes to the financial controls to the system of internal control review and report to the Board on the integrity and effectiveness of: Directors responsibility i the accounting and financial controls of the Company The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual and all its subsidiaries, although Alliance Trust Savings Report and the group and parent company financial also has its own Audit Committee to complement the statements in accordance with applicable law and activities of the main Audit Committee: regulations.
ii the system of risk management and internal controls of Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and the Company and all its subsidiaries.
parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group The Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit and Head of financial statements in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by Compliance will normally attend.
The Chairman and the the EU and applicable law, and have elected to prepare the Chief Executive may attend by invitation and the external parent company financial statements on the same basis.
auditors attend when financial statements they have audited or reviewed are to be approved, or when requested.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give The Committee also reviews and reports to the Board on a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and compliance with the requirements of relevant legislation or parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In regulation, and the relationship of any group company with preparing each of the group and parent company financial any appropriate regulatory body supervising or regulating statements, the directors are required to: its business.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them In the course of the year the Committee considered, consistently: reviewed, approved or recommended to the Board the approval of the Interim and Annual Financial Statements make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and of the Company, internal and external audit plans, the prudent: going concern basis of the business, the performance and state whether they have been prepared in accordance independence of the Auditor, the status of the Companys with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and disaster recovery plan and the ICAAP requirements.
The Committee recommends the draft accounts to the Board for prepare the financial statements on the going concern approval.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Risk Management The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate The Board, supported by the Audit Committees review, is accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain responsible for the risk management frameworks operated the parent companys transactions and disclose with by the business units.
The Company has a robust approach reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of to identifying key risks to the business, which forms part of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its the risk framework.
The aim is to effectively manage, rather financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. than eliminate any risk of failure to achieve, its business They have general responsibility for taking such steps objectives.
All major risks and the risk appetite of the as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets Company have been considered and agreed.
Management of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other is responsible for managing and, where possible and irregularities.
appropriate, preventing, reducing and mitigating risks on Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also an ongoing basis.
There is a quarterly risk and control self responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors assessment by risk and control owners, the results of which Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement are reviewed by the Risk Committee and reported to the that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Internal Control integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing The Board confirms that, in the course of the year, a the preparation and dissemination of financial statements review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The systems of controls were considered to be effective.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 39 The Company maintains a separate internal audit function.
Report of Directors and Responsibility Statement Risk management oversight rests with the Compliance The Report of the Directors, comprising the statements and function.
There is a rolling programme of internal audits reports on pages 6 to 29 together with the Governance based on assessment of risk, with the ability to introduce section on pages 32 to 39 of this Annual Report and unplanned audits as circumstances dictate.
Accounts has been approved by the Board.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and taken all steps they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information the Directors report includes a fair review of the and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of development and performance of the business and the that information.
position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Auditor Independence description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The Audit Committee has determined that, due to its in-depth knowledge of the organisation, there may be occasions when the external auditor is best placed to undertake work on behalf of the Company in addition to Lesley Knox Katherine Garrett-Cox the annual audit.
Therefore, a policy has been adopted Chairman Chief Executive that allows the external auditor to undertake such work 16 April 2010 16 April 2010 only when there is no threat to their independence and the assignment has been approved by the Audit Committee.
The external auditor is appointed by the Board and their performance is reviewed and monitored by the Audit Committee.
The Company last undertook a tender exercise in 2004 and the terms of the auditors appointment and their remuneration is subject to annual review.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the AGM.
Going Concern Statement The Companys business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 6 to 29.
The financial position of the Company, its liquidity position and its borrowing facilities are set out in the Financial Performance Review on pages 22 and 23.
In addition the Corporate Governance report, the Financial Statements and the Notes to the Financial Statements give details of the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has considerable financial resources and a spread of investments across different geographic areas and industries.
The vast majority of our investments are listed on stock exchanges and are readily realiseable.
Having reviewed the Companys forecasts and other relevant evidence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
