Accountability Delegation Corporate Governance Summary Governance at BHP Billiton We are committed to the highest level of governance and strive to foster a culture that values and rewards exemplary ethical standards, personal and corporate integrity and respect for others.
The Board governs the Group consistent with our long stated business strategy and commitment to a transparent and high-quality governance system.
Our approach to governance is predicated on the belief that there is a link between high-quality governance and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
It is our view that governance is not just a matter for the Board: a good governance culture must be fostered throughout the organisation.
The past year saw significant commentary on the governance practices of companies generally, including revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Australian Securities Exchanges Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations.
Key themes emerged, such as the effective composition of the Board including diversity and ensuring an appropriate blend of skills and experience, the role of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors, the time commitment expected of non-executive Directors, the alignment of executive remuneration with shareholder interests and the role of the Board in reviewing risk management governance.
BHP Billiton has the benefit of robust governance practices that already address many of the key changes.
The Board has, for many years through its succession process, focused on ensuring it has the appropriate mix of skills and experience to effectively carry out its duties.
However, governance is an ongoing process and we maintain focus on continuous improvement.
Our governance assurance The diagram below highlights key aspects of our governance assurance structures and processes.
BHP Billiton Governance Structure Board Risk & Audit Sustainability Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee External Auditor Chief Executive Officer Group Audit Services Includes internal audit, Health, Safety, Environment & Management Governance and Assurance Community audit Group Management Committee Peer Review Management Committees Major Projects Financial Risk Management Group Level Business Group Risk & Audit Documents Investment Ore Oil Gas Global Ethics Advisory Reserves Review Disclosure Key Board changes during the year Directors, Malcolm Broomhead and Carolyn Hewson, were appointed to the Board from 31 March 2010.
Non-executive A key activity during the year was Board succession planning and renewal.
The Board believes that orderly succession and renewal Directors who retired during the year were David Morgan, David Jenkins, Paul Anderson and Gail fide Planque.
The Board is in the best interests of the Group.
In August 2009, the Board announced that Jacques Nasser would succeed Don Argus continues with its succession planning process for the role of Chairman of the Risk and Audit Committee and expects as Chairman and Mr Nasser subsequently assumed the role of Chairman on 31 March 2010.
Two new non-executive to make an announcement later in FY2011.
32 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 Assurance Skills and experience of the Directors Board review The Board considers that the executive and non-executive The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge and membership and in assessing the performance of Directors.
experience necessary to enable them to effectively govern the The Board assesses its performance through a combination business.
The non-executive Directors contribute international of internal peer review and externally facilitated evaluation.
and operational experience: understanding of the sectors Contemporary performance measures are considered an in which we operate: knowledge of world capital markets important part of this process.
The Board conducts regular and an understanding of the health, safety, environmental evaluations of its performance, its committees, the Chairman, and community challenges that we face.
The executive individual Directors and the governance processes that support Director brings additional perspectives to the Boards work Board work.
The evaluation of the Boards performance is through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
conducted by focusing on individual Directors in one year and the Board as a whole in the following year.
In addition, the Board The key skills and experience collectively demonstrated conducts evaluations of the performance of Directors retiring on the Board are: and seeking re-election and uses the results of the evaluation Skills and experience Board when considering the re-election of Directors.
The Board review process is represented in the diagram below.
Managing and leading 10 Directors Global experience 11 Directors Risk management We believe that the identification and management of risk Governance 11 Directors is central to achieving the corporate objective of delivering Strategy 11 Directors long-term value to shareholders.
Each year, the Board reviews Financial acumen 11 Directors and considers the risk profile for the whole business.
This risk Capital projects 9 Directors profile covers both operational and strategic risks.
The Board has delegated the oversight of risk management to the Risk Health, safety and environment 10 Directors and Audit Committee.
In addition, the Board specifically requires Remuneration 11 Directors the CEO to implement a system of control for identifying and Mining 5 Directors managing risk.
The Directors, through the Risk and Audit Oil and Gas 5 Directors Committee, review the systems that have been established Marketing 9 Directors for this purpose and regularly review their effectiveness.
Public policy 10 Directors Market disclosure Total Directors 11 Directors We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors In addition, the Board considers that the development of Group have the same access to high-quality, relevant information in an accessible and timely manner to assist them in making and industry knowledge is a continuous and ongoing process.
Structured opportunities are provided to regularly update informed decisions.
A Disclosure Committee manages our compliance with the market disclosure obligations and is Directors on latest industry and Group developments such as business briefings, development sessions, visits to key responsible for implementing reporting processes and controls and setting guidelines for the release of information.
Copies sites and addresses by external speakers.
of announcements are available at www.
Board Review Year Two internally Whole Board Update or externally review development plans facilitated review Each year: Review Directors seeking election Year One internally Incorporate Individual Director review or externally feedback and committee review facilitated review BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 | 33
