Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 71 Audit Committee report Monitoring and challenge The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management.
Its aim is to ensure high standards of reporting, controls and compliance, in the belief that excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness, and reduces the risks, of the business.
Nigel Buchanan Committee Chairman Terms of reference, relationship with The Committees new terms of reference, which The Committee received and considered detailed continue to take full account of the Smith Report papers and information sufficiently in advance subsidiaries and independent advice on the role of audit committees, are available in of its meetings for its members to consider The terms of reference of the Audit Committee the Corporate Governance section of Investor them appropriately, making suggestions for the Committee are designed to enable it to take Relations on the Companys website.
At least once a an independent view of the appropriateness of year the Committee meets, both on its own and the Groups: accounting policies, practices and Membership, meetings and attendance with the external auditors, without any executive reporting: risk management, compliance and management present.
The Committee also meets The Committees membership and number of internal control processes: and internal audit privately with the Head of Internal Audit, who has a meetings and attendance during the year are set process and effectiveness.
The terms of reference private line of communication with the Committee out in the Board and Committee membership also place responsibility on the Committee to Chairman.
His executive reporting line is to the and attendance section of the Board Corporate consider the appointment and fees both audit Group Chief Executive and he is appointed, and Governance statement.
Both the Nomination and non-audit of the external auditors, who have may only be dismissed, by the Committee.
Committee in making its recommendations unrestricted access to it.
They were reviewed to the Board, and the Committee in its own twice during the year, first in February 2010 Activities self-evaluation, reviews the Committees when the following main changes were made: membership.
All of the Committees members The Committees activities may be divided into four The previous joint Committee of the Company Messrs Buchanan, Davey and Feinstein have, interlinked areas: financial reporting and external and the main UK operating subsidiary, in the Boards view, recent and relevant financial audit: risk: internal control: and internal audit.
Amlin Underwriting Limited, was split into experience.
Mr Buchanan, the Committee Financial reporting and external audit separate committees.
Two of the principal Chairman, is a former senior audit partner of The prime financial reporting focus of the regulated subsidiaries operate their own audit  LLP PwC, responsible Committee during the year was, as ever, on committees, of which the Group Finance before his retirement from the firm for the audits the integrity of the Companys interim and Director is a member alongside non-executive of several major UK based financial services preliminary results statements and its Annual directors of such subsidiaries with the organisations.
Mr Daveys banking career included Report.
In addition to the usual consideration of membership of the Companys Committee service on executive management and risk the appropriateness of the accounting policies remaining exclusively independent noncommittees as well as corporate finance advice to being adopted, the Committee particularly executives of Amlin plc.
He currently serves concentrated on: accounting for acquisitions Greater emphasis was placed in the early on the Audit Committee of a major UK Building Amlin Corporate Insurance ACI : the basis of 2010 changes on the Committees role in Society and was also at one time Finance Director the Groups pension fund accounting: taxation understanding and monitoring risk, including of an international financial group.
Mr Feinstein, provisioning: and the consistency and robustness review of the outcomes of the Own Risks and a former CEO of one of the largest property and of the Groups insurance reserves.
On the latter Solvency Assessment prepared by the Chief casualty insurers in the USA, has over 35 years both the reserving process and its results were Risk Officer.
commercial experience of the insurance industry.
reviewed, including comparisons of actuarial An explicit authority was added for the This combination of audit, wider financial services estimates and actual reserves held, and, Committee to engage its own independent and insurance executive experience provides, where necessary, challenged.
The Committee external advice at the Companys expense in the view of the Board, an appropriate group was satisfied that the significant assumptions should it deem it necessary.
During 2010 no of experienced professionals to fulfil the duties underlying the reported figures, including member of the Committee, nor the Committee of the Committee.
Mr Davey as its chairman those relevant to determining fair values and collectively, found it necessary to obtain such and Mr Buchanan also serve on the new Risk to the recoverability of reinsurance debt, were separate advice beyond the advice that is and Solvency Committee, retaining a strong link justified and that there was appropriate and directly provided to the Committee by the between the risk and audit review processes.
meaningful disclosure of the critical judgement external auditors.
and key estimates made, which took account The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief The terms of reference were reviewed again in of the volatile nature of the markets to which Executive and the Group Finance Director usually November 2010 as a result of certain of the risk the Group is exposed.
In addition, each Interim attend the Committees meetings, as does the review duties of the Committee being taken out Management Statement of the Company was Chief Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit.
and re-allocated to the new Risk and Solvency reviewed by the Committee.
Committee that was instituted on 1 January 2011.
72 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Audit Committee report continued The Committee reviewed the external auditors Internal control engagement and service plans, their independence Details of the Committees role regarding and the extent and reasons for them providing internal control issues are set out in the non-audit services a breakdown of the fees for Board internal control statement pp.
64-65 which is set out in note 13 to the Accounts.
within the Board Corporate Governance statement.
A new policy governing the types of non-audit Internal audit services for which the external auditors may be The Committee reviewed the plans and work appointed was adopted by the Committee in undertaken during the year by the Groups Internal early 2010 and operated thereafter during the Audit department, including reports relating to year.
The Committee remained satisfied that the overseas subsidiaries, and the consequential provision of such non-audit services by PwC has actions agreed with management.
Reporting to the not compromised their independence as auditors.
Committee includes summaries of the findings of Reports were received from the external auditors all internal audit reports, enabling members of the in respect of each set of financial statements, Committee to question the Head of Internal Audit highlighting the material judgemental areas, on any report.
The Committee closely scrutinised which were then discussed by the Committee with managements progress in addressing the relevant the auditors alongside reports from management.
issues, challenging management to move more Risk quickly when it considered it appropriate.
During As referred to above when describing changes the year the Committee has been mindful of the to the Committees terms of reference, the need to ensure that internal audit focus is aligned Committees involvement in reviewing the with the areas of greatest risk facing the Group.
Groups risk management processes deepened The Committee also monitored the Groups during the year with the further development compliance with Financial Services Authority, of the Groups risk management processes as Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and set out in the Risk section of the Review in this recommendations, and reviewed the main Annual Report.
whistle blowing procedures operated The Chief Risk Officer and occasionally other by the Group.
members of the Risk Assessment & Monitoring Committee evaluation and reporting department as appropriate attended each Committee meeting to report on the overall During the year the Committee conducted its work of the department.
annual self-evaluation of its terms of reference, composition, procedures, contribution and In addition to detailed quarterly reporting by effectiveness.
The Committee concluded that the Chief Risk Officer to the Committee, the during 2010 it had received sufficient, reliable, Committee held several special meetings on risk and timely information from management to during the year, sometimes in conjunction with the enable it to fulfil its responsibilities and that it had Audit Committee of AUL and also often attended fulfilled the duties placed upon it by its terms of by non-executives who are not members of the reference.
The conclusions of its evaluation were Committee.
Management made presentations agreed and reported to the Board early in 2011. on risk management, its governance and the processes for recommending risk appetite and By Order of the Board, on the recommendation for reviewing both existing and emerging risks of the Audit Committee for the Group, particularly linking these to the forthcoming requirements of Solvency II.
The meeting also reviewed the main components of C C T Pender the Groups Dynamic Financial Analysis model, Secretary which is a key component in setting Groups 1 March 2011 risk management framework and the Groups Individual Capital Assessment.
As referred to in the Board Corporate Governance Statement, responsibility at Board committee level for risk and solvency passed on 1 January 2011 to a separate committee.
The Audit Committee retains overall responsibility for recommending the annual control statement.
