70 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Nomination Committee report Leadership and succession The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that the Board, its committees, and those filling other leadership positions, have the right balance of experience and qualities to deliver the strategic leadership, values, management and framework of controls required for the Groups success.
Roger Taylor Chairman Terms of reference Committee, now increased in number by the Risk Board skills and experience and Solvency Committee, remained appropriate The Nomination Committee the Committee is but that an additional independent non-executive responsible for identifying, and nominating for the director to share the increasing Committee work approval of the Board, all candidates for Board would be appropriate during 2011.
Accordingly, appointment and proposed election or re-election late in the year, the Committee approved an to the Board, whether non-executive or executive, appropriate specification and appointed search and for assisting the Board in its oversight of consultants.
The recruitment process is ongoing succession planning, including for key executives at the date of this report.
In reviewing the make-up of the seven present Re-nomination of directors to the Companys non-executive members of the Board including Annual General Meeting AGM is considered on the Chairman, the Committee noted the balance a case by case basis before recommendations illustrated opposite, which demonstrates an are made.
This remains the case now that the appropriate balance of insurance and other Board, from the 2011 AGM, has adopted annual financial sector knowledge to enable the nonre-election of all directors.
The Committees terms Former UK insurance executives 2 executives collectively to perform their role of of reference require it to give full consideration to Former non-UK insurance executives US and Continental Europe 2 overseeing a complex insurance business.
All but succession planning, in respect of both the Board Other financial sector specialists 3 the Chairman have served as non-executives for and senior executive roles, taking into account seven or fewer years.
the challenges and opportunities facing the Non-executive director succession plans, Group and what skills and expertise are needed including in respect of the Chairman led by the The executive members of the Board also bring in the future.
They also require the Committee senior independent director, were also reviewed skills and experience to the Board that are to keep under review the leadership needs of the by the Committee during the year.
Its membership organisation, both executive and non-executive, is kept under review and, following the year end, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of Board and Committee evaluation the Committee recommended the proposal to the organisation to compete effectively in the the Annual General Meeting of the election of The Committee took account of the conclusions marketplace.
The Committee also recommends an additional executive director, Mr Simon Beale, of the recently concluded annual Board evaluation to the Board the appointment of, and changes the Underwriting Director of Amlin London, as when considering the nomination of directors in, members of the Boards main Committees.
detailed in the notice of meeting published at the for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The Committee No director may participate in any decision regarding same time as this report.
There is also regular, has also recently conducted its own annual selfhis or her own position.
The Committees terms formal and direct reporting to the Board by evaluation and concluded that it had during 2010 of reference are available in the Corporate fulfilled its duties effectively.
The conclusions of other senior Group executives, most frequently Governance section of Investor Relations in 2010 from Mr Beale and from the Chief Risk the Committee evaluation were reported to the on the Companys website.
Officer Mr Illingworth and the Chief Investment Officer Mrs Styles.
Membership, meetings and attendance By Order of the Board, on the recommendation In October the Committee concluded its of the Nomination Committee The Committees membership, number of meetings and attendance during the year are set out in the regular review of the succession plan regarding senior executive roles in the Group.
With a few Board and Committee meetings and attendance section of the Boards Corporate Governance exceptions, the plan continues to identify short term C C T Pender contingencies for fulfilling each role at short notice statement.
Secretary as well as one or more potential internal candidates 1 March 2011 Activities as permanent successors.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall plan is well conceived and During the year the Committee reviewed the effectively managed.
The Committee paid particular general structure, size and composition of the attention to the few roles in respect of which the Board and concluded that the present Board plan is less well developed.
balance and the composition of each main Board
