60 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Board corporate governance statement Intrinsic to our culture and values The Board believes t hat high standards of corporate governance are intrinsic to Amlins culture and values.
Roger Taylor Chairman Board composition and independence could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
save that he would step aside from involvement Mr Holt is classified as a non-independent nonin any financial dispute or litigation between the Throughout the year and up to the date of this executive as he was an executive Underwriting Group and PwC were it ever to arise.
report the Board of Amlin plc the Board or Director until 2008. plc Board comprised: the Chairman, who is During the year both Mrs Bosse until 31 January non-executive, five independent non-executives, In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 2011 and Mr Feinstein to date were directors of one non-independent non-executive Mr Holt and as permitted by the Companys Articles of overseas insurance companies which, like many and three executive directors.
Their biographical Association, the Board has authorised a number insurers around the world, purchase reinsurance details are set out earlier pp.
56. of potential conflicts of interest regarding the from the Amlin Group on normal commercial independent directors.
These transactions are not material either All of the directors with the exception of Mr Holt to Amlin or, the Directors believe, to the other Mr Buchanan, the senior independent nonwill be offering themselves for re-election at the companies and in both cases the reinsurance executive director, who retired as a partner of forthcoming AGM.
Mr Holt asked not to be relationship is independent of, and pre-dates, their  LLP PwC in 2001, considered by the Nomination Committee Amlin directorships.
The Board remains robustly receives a pension annuity from that firm that for re-election as he has decided to retire of the view that such inter-company transactions can vary if PwCs financial results do not meet as a director at the conclusion of the AGM.
are an inevitable consequence of engaging a certain threshold.
The Board believes that The Chairman was independent on his non-executive directors with relevant current Amlin is not a material enough client to a firm appointment in 1998 but, as Chairman, is insurance industry experience which, in view of of PwCs size for this to affect whether such not classified as independent.
Five of the other the specialist and complex nature of insurance, is threshold is met.
Therefore, following PwCs non-executive directors, all of whom have tenure highly beneficial to the Company and that they appointment in 2009 as auditors, the Board of between two and seven years, have been authorised the potential conflict involved in did not, and do not, affect, and should not be determined by the Board as being independent regarded by an objective observer as affecting, the Mr Buchanan continuing to serve as Audit in character and judgement with no relationships Committee chairman, allowing him to be independence of the directors concerned in fulfilling or circumstances which are likely to affect, or their roles as non-executive directors of Amlin.
involved in all aspects of the Committees work, Balance of the Board Chairman and executive director tenure NED tenure 11 years 2 14 years 1 2 years 2 5 years 2 Chairman 1 Non-Independent NEDs 1 12 years 1 Independent NEDs 5 Executives 3 3 years 1 7 years 1 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 61 They are central to fulfilling many of our core values such as integrity, professional excellence and sustainability.
They underpin the objectivity of such processes as insurance reserving, risk management, balance sheet and investment management, the design and operation of executive remuneration and succession planning.
They are the basis for the accountability of executive management to the Board and of the Board to shareholders.
Regulated subsidiaries within a Group AULs executive governance is split between an Amlin London management committee and an management framework Amlin UK management committee.
They each During the year the organisational and hold quarterly review meetings with Group and governance arrangements of the Group AUL executives, in addition to AUL executive have continued to evolve.
directors reporting to the AUL Board.
AAG, Each of the Groups business platforms the other subsidiary containing two business come under its own regulated board: Amlin platforms, is run by a unitary board but with Underwriting Limited AUL for the Groups underwriting and other management decisions Lloyds operations for Amlin London and Amlin delegated to the local teams in each location.
UK : Amlin AG AAG, domiciled in Zurich, In parallel with the corporate structure, there Switzerland for Amlin Re Europe and Amlin are management accountabilities of particular Bermuda : Amlin Corporate Insurance NV ACI, functions, for example finance, operations and operating in the Netherlands and Belgium: risk management, which help embed Group and Amlin France Holdings SAS AF for the standards and seek to ensure that there is good Groups French business.
AAG is the previous two way communication between functional Amlin Bermuda Limited, redomiciled and management at the centre and each local entity.
reincorporated in Zurich on 7 October 2010, and The relationship between the corporate and now operates with both a Swiss business and a management structures is illustrated in Bermudian branch.
AF includes both the previous the Corporate and management structure Anglo French Underwriters AFU and ACI in chart below.
France, sourcing business for both the Lloyds syndicate and ACI.
Corporate and management structure Corporate entity Supervisory boards Amlin plc Management boards Group Executive Management Boards Amlin Corporate Insurance Amlin AG Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin France Holdings SAS N. V. Supervisory Board Amlin Corporate Insurance Syndicate 2001 Amlin France SAS N. V. Management Board Quota Business flows shares Business provider Business provider Business divisions Amlin Amlin Amlin Executive management Amlin UK Amlin France ACI Re Europe Bermuda London 62 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Board corporate governance statement continued Risk and Solvency Committee established Summary Risk and Solvency Committee responsibilities Summary Audit Committee responsibilities Leading the review process of risk management, risk Independent review of accounting policies, practices appetite, solvency and capital.
Reviewing and making recommendations to the Reviewing compliance and internal audit processes, Board regarding the Groups Own Risk and Solvency effectiveness and management responsiveness.
Recommending external auditor appointments and Reviewing the adequacy, effectiveness and governance approving their remuneration and terms of engagement.
of the Groups internal model.
in addition to the Group Chief Executive and AUL for the Lloyds syndicate and ACI and Separate entity management with Group Finance Director.
The latter perform three Amlin France executives.
a strong Group governance input internal non-executive roles within AUL, which Each regulated subsidiary has its own executive In terms of plc Board reporting, key indicator is managed by its own Managing Director, management separate from that of the Group, reports on each business unit are made to the Finance Director and the Underwriting Directors with Group executives including the Chief plc Board in addition to consolidated reports at a of Amlin London and Amlin UK.
Mr Illingworth, Executive Mr Philipps, Finance Director Mr Group level, enabling the Board to concentrate on a director of AUL and other subsidiaries, is Chief Hextall and or Chief Risk Officer Mr Illingworth its key strategic and control roles.
Presentations Risk Officer at both Group and AUL levels.
sitting as non-executives on subsidiary boards are also made to the Board periodically by each along with the relevant businesss executive The AAG board has four executive directors from business unit.
management either on the board or on a its own businesses two from Amlin Re Europe Board Committee structures management board.
and two Amlin Bermuda and, at the year end, its non-executives were three members of the Amlin As the plc Board has overall responsibility to One of the main ways in which the Company plc Board, Messrs Hextall, Holt and Philipps.
shareholders and other stakeholders for the ensures that there is sufficient Group influence ACI has a two tier board structure comprising a Groups operations, it is necessary not only for and control within this delegated structure is Supervisory Board made up of two independent the plc Board to direct the overall strategy, values through overlapping board memberships the directors and three plc Group executives and a and standards for the Group but for its Board year end position is illustrated in the Board Management Board whose members usually Committees to be able effectively to oversee memberships chart below.
attend Supervisory Board meetings presently of the aspects of the whole Group relevant to their In the UK the Chairman and, at present, three six ACI executives.
AFs board comprises three responsibilities.
As with board governance, other non-executive directors of the Company Group executives, one executive from each of the distinction between Group and subsidiary also serve as non-executives on the AUL Board the Group entities to which it provides business responsibilities is reflected in committee structures.
Board memberships Amlin plc 7 plc NEDs 3 plc Execs Amlin Corporate Amlin AG AAG Amlin France Holdings SAS AF Amlin Underwriting Ltd AUL Insurance N. V. ACI 1 plc NED 2 plc Execs 4 plc NEDs Supervisory Board 2 plc Execs 1 AUL Exec 3 plc Execs 2 Independent 2 Amlin Re Europe Execs 1 Group Exec 5 local Execs 2 plc execs 2 Bermuda Execs 3 local Execs 1 Group AUL Exec Amlin UK Amlin London Amlin Corporate Review Committee Review Committee Amlin France SAS Insurance N. V. 3 plc Execs 2 plc Execs 3 local Execs Management Board 3 AUL Execs 5 AUL Execs 7 local Execs 5 local Execs 4 local Execs Boards Review Committees Management Board inc Brian Carpenter, Underwriting Director Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 63 The plc Audit Committee leads the process of deeper.
It remains the philosophy of the Group review and makes recommendations to the Board that key decisions and processes, including purely Group Management Committee regarding the external auditors, financial reporting, executive ones, take place within an objective Charles Philipps, Chief Executive internal control and internal audit, and regulatory governance framework, whether they be at Richard Hextall, Finance Director and compliance matters.
The process is designed Group, subsidiary or divisional level.
to ensure that significant risks are identified, Andrew Grant, Chief Operations Officer Formation of Group Management Committee evaluated, managed and controlled.
AUL and ACI James Illingworth, Chief Risk Officer in early 2010 each have their own Audit Committees, which The Group Executive, consisting of the Group Simon Beale, make reports to the plc Audit Committee as well Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Underwriting Director, Amlin London as to their respective boards.
In January 2011 a Operations Officer and Chief Risk Officer, is Brian Carpenter, separate Board level Risk and Solvency Committee responsible, through the Chief Executive and Underwriting Director, Amlin UK was established, taking over some of the Audit directly, to the plc Board.
Its members also join Committees responsibilities.
It will lead the process David Harris, the Board for its annual planning and strategy of reviewing risk and make recommendations MD, Amlin Underwriting Ltd session at which the Group strategy is determined to the Board for risk management, risk appetite, Patrick Coene, CEO, ACI or refined.
The heads of each business area and solvency, economic and regulatory capital matters each areas chief financial, operations and risk Franois Martinache, all matters that during 2010 were reviewed by the officers report both to the relevant member of Head of Amlin France Audit Committee.
Both the Group and the major the Group Executive and to their operational subsidiaries will continue to have executive Philippe Reggazoni, boards and management committees.
CEO, Amlin Re Europe to the Group Executive, a Group Management Rob Wyatt, Underwriting Director, The Nomination Committee reviews succession Committee GMC, including representatives from Amlin Bermuda planning for key roles within the whole Group, each of the main business divisions, was formed reporting the conclusions of its reviews to the in early 2010 and meets ten to twelve times a Board and, when appropriate, to relevant subsidiary year, assisting the Group Chief Executive and boards.
The Remuneration Committee also review or board meetings, which review and acting as a forum for resolving management reports to the Board and, on occasion, reports finalise the preliminary reserving conclusions for and strategic issues.
the conclusions of its reviews and makes their businesses, reporting at subsidiary board recommendations on matters within the control The business functions themselves are all level each quarter and, twice-yearly, to the plc of regulated subsidiaries to such subsidiaries described in more detail in the Review section of Audit Committee.
Quarterly review meetings boards and or remuneration committees.
Summaries of the governance receive actuarial assessments from the Group Risk arrangements for some key functions now follow.
Assessment & Monitoring department reviewing This new committee structure from 1 January the consistency of the key reserving judgements.
2011 is illustrated in the chart below.
Reserving Responsibility for reserving is that of the regulated Risk management Executive, as well as Board, boards and, at Group consolidated level, the In 2010 the Audit Committee had specific corporate governance plc Board but it is important that the process responsibilities for risk, as outlined in more detail through which executive management reach their in that committees report.
That committee, as Amlin regards Board level corporate governance reserving decisions is objective and robust.
This well as the plc Board, receives quarterly reports as only the most visible aspect of a review and role is performed by their respective quarterly from the Chief Risk Officer on the whole Group.
decision-making structure that goes much Board and Board committee structure Amlin plc Board Principal plc Committees Remuneration Nomination Risk & Solvency Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Key subsidiary Boards Amlin Corporate Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin France Holdings Insurance N. V Amlin AG Board SAS Board Supervisory Board Subsidiary Committees AUL Audit Committee ACI Audit Committee plc process Committees Allotment Committee Disclosure Committee plc Board and Committees Subsidiary boards and committees Not all subsidiary companies committees are shown 64 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Board corporate governance statement continued For 2011 the Risk & Solvency Committee will take In accordance with the new Codes Board and Committee meetings and over this role.
A dedicated Group Risk Assessment requirement for the annual re-election of attendance and Monitoring Department RAM oversees FTSE 350 companies directors, all of the The plc Board held six regular Board meetings the management of risk to ensure that each Companys directors nominated and wishing in 2010 2009: six and one two-day planning operating entity manages its risk in accordance to continue will, beginning with the 2011 and strategy session 2009: one.
No additional with Group policies and allocated risk tolerances.
AGM, offer themselves for re-election each special Board meetings were necessary in 2010 As well as the Chief Risk Officer reporting to the year.
While it is not proposed to change the 2009: two.
The subsidiary operating boards met Board and its relevant committee, reports from Companys Articles, non-executive directors quarterly.
The attendance of each director at plc RAM are reviewed and appropriate executive appointment letters have been re-issued in Board meetings out of seven possible meetings, actions considered by a Group Executive Risk early 2011 to take account of the new Code including the planning and strategy session are including annual re-election.
In addition each regulated entitys shown below.
The committee attendances of board is responsible for the entitys risk, supported This report, the following Committee reports those directors who were members of any of the by executive risk committees or other executive pp.
70-72, the Directors Remuneration principal board committees for all, or any part of, reporting arrangements.
Further details of the report pp.
76-87, and Annex 1 to this report the year are shown in the same table.
Groups risk management, and its development pp.
66-68 together describe how the Company during the year, are set out in the Review section applied the Main and Supporting Principles of the The Combined Code and UK Corporate of the Annual Report.
Combined Code during the year.
Annex 2 to this Governance Code report pp.
69 summarises certain  During the year ended 31 December 2010 the related aspects of the Companys Articles of The setting and execution of the Groups Company complied with all of the provisions Association Articles and is incorporated by investment strategy has its own hierarchy of section 1 companies of the Combined reference into the Directors Report.
The relevant boards are Code.
From 29 June 2010 this became the UK responsible for setting and monitoring their own Corporate Governance Code the new Code Board internal control statement investment risk appetites within the overall Group which took effect for Amlin on 1 January 2011.
The Board has overall responsibility for the investment appetite.
Investment advice and The Company participated in the consultation Groups risk management and internal control many elements of management are outsourced process for the new Code.
Since its publication systems and has complied with Principle C. 2 to the Group Investment function headed by in final form the Board has considered the extent of the Combined Code and the new Code by the Chief Investment Officer.
An Investment to which the Company already satisfies the new establishing a continuous process for identifying, Management Executive consisting of the Group Code and the actions that may be taken evaluating and managing the significant risks the Finance Director, Group Chief Executive and Chief to comply fully: Group faces.
This process has been in place from Investment Officer has responsibility for strategic the start of 2010 to the date of approval of this The Board is satisfied as to the balance asset allocation decisions and advice, with report and is in accordance with the Combined of skills, experience, independence and operational and tactical asset allocation decisions Code in respect of 2010 and the new Code in knowledge of the Company possessed by being taken by the Group Investments team.
The process includes the directors, and of their diversity, to satisfy executive is assisted in its decision making and risks arising from social, environmental and the new Code: recommendations to the boards by an Investment ethical matters.
Advisory Panel IAP consisting of the members Director appointments are made on merit, The Board is also responsible for reviewing the of the Investment Management Executive plus against objective criteria and with due regard to three external investment experts.
Investment effectiveness of established systems of internal diversity on the Board, to ensure a satisfactory control and the directors are aware that any management itself is outsourced to external balance amongst directors: such system is designed to manage, rather than managers.
The whole process is governed by both The Board is mindful of the new Codes eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Group and regulated subsidiaries investment requirement for the annual evaluation to be objectives and can only provide reasonable, frameworks, which document what decisions may externally facilitated at least every three years and not absolute, assurance against material be taken at what level.
and is currently considering the nature and misstatement or financial loss.
timing of such facilitation: In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code also C. 2.1 of the new Code, Attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and Committees in 2010 the Audit Committee reviews regularly, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Number of meetings attended Groups system of risk management and internal Board Audit Nomination Remuneration 7 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 7 meetings control.
Monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls C Bosse 5 6 and risk management processes the latter of N J C Buchanan 7 4 3 7 which will have the additional input, from 2011 B D Carpenter 7 onwards, of the newly established board Risk R H Davey 7 4 3 and Solvency Committee.
We can confirm that M D Feinstein 7 4 necessary actions have been or are being taken to R A Hextall 7 remedy any significant identified control failings A W Holt 7 or weaknesses and the Audit Committee has C E L Philipps 7 3 received regular reports from management R J Taylor 7 3 to assist with this process.
Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 7 3 7 Average % attendance 97% 100% 100% 95% Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 65 Control framework Amlin has continued to develop its Group Internal The Audit Committee has additionally reviewed The Board has put in place a management Model during 2010 with the intention that it and is satisfied with the Group policy whereby structure with defined lines of responsibility captures all the key economic and risk factors arrangements are made for staff in confidence and clear delegation of authority.
This structure which could impact the performance of the and if they wish via an external reporting line, cascades down through the business units and Group.
It has also developed a process to collate to raise concerns about possible improprieties central functions with clear responsibilities for and report information from the internal model in matters of financial reporting or other ensuring that appropriate controls are in place consolidated into an Own Risk and Solvency matters.
The Committee is satisfied with such at an operational level, including those in relation Assessment ORSA which both the Audit arrangements for the longer standing parts of to the financial reporting process.
A reporting Committee and the Board have reviewed.
the business and is assured that appropriate mechanism to monitor how these initiatives are This process and the ORSA document will arrangements are being made in certain of the working has also been established.
Key elements be developed further in 2011.
Continental European jurisdictions where such of the overall control environment are the various arrangements are not yet fully in place.
Internal audit and compliance executive governance bodies discussed earlier Internal audit and compliance monitoring work By Order of the Board in this Board Corporate Governance statement, is carried out by the Groups Internal Audit and including the Group Executive, which meets Risk Assessment & Monitoring departments regularly and is responsible for strategic and respectively.
The latter also provides compliance C C T Pender operational activities on a day-to-day basis, advice.
The heads of both departments report Secretary and the wider Group Management Committee.
to the Group Chief Executive and to the Audit These bodies receive oral and written reports 1 March 2011 Committee.
The Group has established risk from Amlins businesses and support departments.
based audit and compliance programmes for The other key control elements are the subsidiary reviewing and evaluating the internal controls boards including where applicable their Audit and compliance procedures used in the and or Risk Committees and review committees.
These boards and review committees are responsible for the day-to-day operations of Assessment The plc Board receives regular reports from Amlins individual subsidiaries or business units, including relevant aspects of internal control.
the Audit Committee which reviews the main processes established by the Group, including Business planning the matters which are the regulatory responsibility The Group has developed a formal structured of the boards of AUL, ACI, AF and AAG.
These business planning process which operates for all processes are designed to ensure that significant business elements.
This operates on an annual risks are identified, evaluated, managed and cycle with proposed plans being presented to controlled.
They also permit the Audit Committee and agreed by relevant subsidiary boards prior to determine whether any significant weaknesses to being consolidated and approved by the plc are promptly remedied or indicate a need for Board.
Monitoring processes operate monthly more extensive monitoring.
The Groups financial performance monitoring includes The Audit Committee has also performed a detailed reporting against budgets and the specific assessment for the purpose of this Annual preparation of longer-term projections.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period Risk assessment covered by the report, including the work of Amlins Risk Assessment process includes output internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the from a system for reporting on all the significant Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
identified risks to the achievement of Group The review for this Annual Report has for the first objectives and on the nature and effectiveness time included the Amlin Re Europe division of of the controls and other management processes Amlin AG ARE.
The Committee reviewed a report to manage these risks.
Risk appetites are set for on the design of AREs underwriting controls that key categories of quantifiable risk, for example were put in place from when it started writing catastrophe, reserving, investment and operational business in September 2010, which indicated that risk.
The system encompasses self assessment of the design is appropriate.
The Board has received controls by risk owners throughout the business regular reports during the year on operational coupled with independent challenge of these issues at ACI, which has been engaged in a assertions by the Group Risk team.
Significant programme of finance, information technology risks, their potential impact on the Groups financial and risk management process changes.
The position, any variations from the agreed risk internal control environment at ACI does not appetites, and the actions taken to manage yet meet the high standards to which the Group those risks, are reviewed regularly by the Groups aspires.
However, good progress in implementing Risk Committee of senior executives and by the key controls was made in 2010 and there are Audit Committee during 2010 or the Risk and plans in place to address further internal control Solvency Committee from 2011. weaknesses, leading to further improvements in the control environment.
66 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Board corporate governance statement continued Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the Combined Code Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
1 The Board The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its committees decisions provides that an effective boardcollectively responsible for the Boards primary obligation is to lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive the success of the company decision making powers over such matters as: overall strategy and resources: risk appetite: investment strategy: remuneration policies: accounting policies: capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds: and certain key Group policies, appointments and categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to management, which reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial, risk and other operational matters and objectives.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website.
The Board meets regularly, usually at full strength, as demonstrated in the Board and Committee meetings and attendance section and table pp.
The NEDs met during the year without executive directors or other executive management present, including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman chairs full NED meetings and the senior independent director chairs meetings when the Chairman is not present.
2 Chairman and chief executive There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, who is responsible for clear division of responsibilities leading and running the Board and related matters such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing this division of responsibilities, which includes provision for the Chairmans role in ensuring accountability of the Chief Executive to him and to the Board, in shareholder relations and in ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors, has been approved by the Board.
3 Board balance and independence The balance of the Board, its strong independent representation and the sharing of Committee work a balance of executive and non-executive is set out in earlier sections of this Board Corporate Governance statement.
Mr Buchanan is the senior directors in particular independent NEDs independent director designated as an appropriate director to whom shareholders concerns may be conveyed if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve them or is inappropriate.
4 Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles of Association Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for election and re-election of directors.
the appointment of new directorsexpected The process for nomination to the Board and for considering succession planning is set out in the time commitments of NEDs Nomination Committee report below.
The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman has sufficient time available to devote to his duties as non-executive Chairman of the Company and of AUL.
The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other NEDs, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the following expected minimum annual time commitments to the Company and AUL: Chairman of the Company also of AUL : 75 days Senior independent, including chairing Audit Committee Mr Buchanan : 30 days Chairmen of Remuneration Committee and Risk and Solvency Committee Sir Mark Wrightson and Mr Davey respectively : 25 days Member of both a Board Committee and of the AUL Board Mr Feinstein : 25 days Others including either a Board Committee or membership of the AUL Board : 20 days.
Mr Holts time spent as a non-executive director of ABL AAG is not included in the above.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 67 Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary A.
5 Information and professional development The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its timely quality informationinduction on duties, including providing constructive challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information joining regular update of skills is obtained by the Board from the executive directors and other senior executives as appropriate.
All and knowledge directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and insurance industry matters.
Updating information on technical and or industry matters is provided to the Board with opportunities for discussion.
During 2010 special sessions were held on a number of aspects of risk management and solvency, particularly those associated with the advent of Solvency II for insurers within the EU, and on the Bribery Act and competition law.
A Board visit was also made to ACIs head office and Netherlands operations.
In addition, the Company encourages and facilitates other professional development for both executive and non-executive directors as is required for their particular roles.
The Company maintains a model director induction programme but this was not operated during the year as there were no new directors.
Procedures are in place for directors and Board Committees collectively to take independent professional advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board and its committees are supported by the Company Secretary and his team who, under the direction of the Chairman, advise the Board on governance matters and help to ensure good communication and information flows within the Board, including between executive and non-executive directors and between the Board and its Committees.
The Secretary also facilitates the Board updating and induction work outlined above.
Subsidiary Boards other than ABL which, until it became a branch operation of AAG, had its own local arrangements in Bermuda and executive level committees are also serviced, attended and minuted by the Secretary or another member of his team.
6 Performance evaluation Since the last annual report the Board has completed an annual evaluation of the performance of the formal and rigorous annual evaluation Board, its Committees and each director.
The annual evaluations were initiated by a questionnaire of its own performance completed by each director giving his assessment of both collective and individual performances.
The results of the latest internal Board evaluation were summarised by the Chairman at its meeting in February 2011 and the Board agreed its conclusions.
Each Board Committee evaluated its performance at the turn of the year, and the conclusions were also reported to the Board in February 2011.
The Chairman discusses any issues arising from the evaluation of each individual director, including the performances of executive directors in respect of their boardroom as opposed to executive roles which are evaluated as part of the Groups regular Performance Development Review process, with the director concerned.
The Chief Executives total performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The senior independent director discussed and agreed the conclusions with the Chairman.
7 Re-election The Articles of Association of the Company provide for re-election at regular intervals, as more fully re-election at regular intervalsplanned described in the next section of this report.
and progressive refreshing of the board Details of the procedures whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board are considered are set out in the Nomination Committee report pp.
Board and individual directors evaluations are taken into account by that committee when considering specifications for new NEDs, succession planning and nominations for re-election at AGMs.
Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and executive directors are also set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
68 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Board corporate governance statement continued Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the Combined Code continued Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary B. Remuneration B.
1 The level and make-up of remuneration The Directors Remuneration report pp.
76-87 sets out the policies and practices which levelssufficient to attract, retain and demonstrate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
motivate directorsavoid paying more than is necessarysignificant proportion of executive remuneration linked to performance B.
2 Procedure The above sections entitled Board composition and independence and Board and Committee formal and transparent procedure meetings and attendance demonstrate the appropriate membership and meeting frequency of the Remuneration Committee.
There are generally around five main meetings each year with a varying number of other meetings to give formal approvals or to deal with urgent or unscheduled matters.
Further details of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference and the Boards policy and practices regarding NED remuneration and terms of office are set out in the Directors Remuneration report pp.
C. Accountability and audit C. 1 Financial reporting The Audit Committees role in ensuring that the Groups financial reporting meets the standards of present balanced and understandable transparency and balance that are required and in monitoring reporting to regulators is set out in more assessment of position and prospects detail in the Audit Committee report following this report.
A going concern statement is included in the Directors report pp.
C. 2 Internal control The Boards statement and commentary on its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system sound system of internal control of internal control is set out in the Board internal control statement pp.
C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors The role of the Audit Committee and the conduct of the relationship with the auditors is set out formal and transparent arrangements for in the Audit Committee report pp.
71-72. applying financial reporting and internal control principles D. Relations with shareholders D. 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders The Company is committed to a process of continuing dialogue with its shareholders, including making dialogue based on mutual understanding appropriate contact with institutional investors and their representative bodies when there are specific of objectives matters to discuss.
Other details of the dialogue, and its reporting to the Board, are set out in the Investor relations section of the Annual Report pp.
D. 2 Constructive use of Annual General Meeting Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM by the Chief Executive making a presentation there on use AGM to communicate with investors the Groups progress.
The voting participation at its last three AGMs was proxies representing 68%, 77% and encourage their participation and 77% of its shares in issue in 2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively.
Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the 2011 AGM circular and Notice of Meeting, is made available.
The totals of proxy votes on each resolution, including details of any votes withheld, are announced at the meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands and the full proxy voting results are always announced through a regulatory news service and on the Companys website.
In the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by the chairman of the meeting, the chairman would call a poll but this did not prove necessary at any of the AGMs referred to.
The Board believes that the immediacy of voting on a show of hands with the proxy votes immediately being announced, rather than a laborious process of conducting a formal poll on every resolution, is appreciated by the shareholders who attend the meeting.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Board corporate governance statement 69 Annex 2 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of Director and shareholder governance provisions in the Articles of Association Area of section 1 of the Combined Code Commentary Directors Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of directors.
A director may be removed either by a unanimous resolution of fellow directors or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting.
As regards appointments, the Board may appoint additional directors at any time but such appointees must, if they wish to continue, be elected by shareholders by an ordinary resolution at the AGM following their appointment.
Directors may also be appointed by election at the AGM.
The Articles also provide that no term of office may exceed the period between election or re-election by shareholders and the AGM in the third year following such election or re-election.
Although the Board intends to comply from the 2011 AGM with the UK Corporate Governance Code annual re-election provision for FTSE 350 companies, it is not intended to amend the Articles in this respect.
Re-election to the Board The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, each directors term of office before being required to submit himself or herself to shareholders for re-election is three years.
This term has historically been shortened to one year for any NED who has served on the Board for nine years or more.
As referred to immediately above, from 2011 it is intended that all directors will generally submit themselves for re-election annually.
Relations with shareholders Procedure at Annual General Meeting Voting at the Annual General Meeting is conducted on a show of hands unless a poll is called for which the Chairman himself would do if the proxies he held indicated any sort of close result.
Advance voting on a poll is not offered.
However, Shareholders proxy votes can be submitted electronically through the CREST settlement system and the Companys Registrars website and a proxy may cast his vote on a show of hands or on a poll in different ways in respect of different blocks of shares within the same holding.
