Corporate governance report The Combined Code on Corporate Chief Executive Officer is responsible for Directors Governance 2008 the 2008 Code execution of strategy and for the day-toThe Board of Directors comprises two applies to listed companies with reporting day management of the Group.
executive Directors and four non-executive years beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
In considering non-executive director Directors.
The two executive Directors are The Company adopted the principles of the independence, the Board has taken into Mark Coombs, the Chief Executive Officer, predecessor 2006 Code from its admission consideration the guidance provided and Graeme Dell, the Group Finance to listing on the London Stock Exchange by the Combined Code.
The non-executive Directors are on 17 October 2006 Admission considers Michael Benson, Nick Land, Michael Benson, Chairman, Nick Land, and the principles of the 2008 Code Jonathan Asquith and Melda Donnelly to Senior Independent Director, Jonathan be independent.
Nick Land is the Senior thereafter.
InMay 2010 the FRC published Asquith and Melda Donnelly.
All Directors a new edition of the Code the 2010 Independent Director.
Code which will apply to financial years During the year under review the The Board has a schedule of matters beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the Group complied with the Combined Code specifically reserved to it for decision provisions of which will accordingly not requirement that at least half of the Board and approval, which include, but are not apply until the Companys next financial consist of independent directors excluding limitedto: year.
The Company nevertheless intends the Chairman.
to adopt the 2010 Code with immediate Biographical details of the Directors the Groups long-term commercial effect.
Reference herein to the Combined are given on page 29. objectives and strategy: Code means the 2006, 2008 and 2010 The Board met six times during the major acquisitions, disposals and Codes, as applicable.
year to review financial performance and investments: The Company has been in compliance strategy and to follow the formal schedule the Groups annual and interim reports with the Combined Code since Admission, of matters reserved for its decision.
and financial statements: except where the Directors consider Comprehensive Board papers, comprising interim dividend and recommendation that in particular limited circumstances an agenda and formal reports and briefing of final dividend: departure may be justified and explained.
papers, are sent to Directors in advance of annual budgets and forecast updates: No departures from the Combined Code each meeting.
Throughout their period in significant capital expenditure: and occurred during the year under review.
office, Directors are continually updated effectiveness of internal controls.
This report describes the Companys by means of written and oral reports from corporate governance arrangements, senior executives and external advisors on The roles of the Chairman and Chief explaining how it has applied the principles the Groups business, and the competitive Executive Officer are separate, clearly of the Combined Code.
and regulatory environments in which it defined and have been approved by the The Companys corporate governance operates, as well as on legal, corporate Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the structure detailed further in this report is governance, corporate social responsibility effective conduct of the Board, while the summarised in the diagram below.
Ashmore Group Ashmore Group governance structure plc Board Investment Non-executive committees Committee Risk & Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Committee Committee Committee Committee Pricing Executive Methodology Management Committee Internal External Audit Audit IT Steering Group Foreign Exchange Management Committee Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 34 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 In addition to its formal business, or v they are prohibited by law from the Board received a number of briefings being a Director.
Notwithstanding these and presentations from executive provisions the Board will be immediately management during the year covering a adopting provision B.
7.1 of the 2010 Code wide range of topics across the range of and the Directors will therefore all retire the Groups business.
All Directors have and seek re-election at the Annual General access to independent professional advice, Meeting on 28 October 2010. if required, at the Companys expense, Powers of the Directors as well as to the advice and services of Subject to the Companys Articles, the the Company Secretary.
NewDirectors appointed to the Board will receive Companies Acts and any directions given advice as to the legal and other duties by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by and obligations arising from the role of the Board, who may exercise all powers a director of a UK listed company within of the Company, whether relating to a full, formal and tailored induction the management of the business of the programme.
The Company Secretary, Company or not.
under the direction of the Chairman, isresponsible for maintaining an adequate Annual performance evaluation continuing education programme, The Board has established a formal reminding the directors of their duties and process, led by the Chairman and assisted obligations on a regular basis, ensuring by the Company Secretary, for the annual good information flows between the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and management Board, its appointed committees and each and assisting with Directors continuing Director, to ensure that they continue to professional development needs.
act effectively and efficiently and to fulfil The Companys nominations their respective duties, and to identify committee considers the appointment and any training requirements.
In doing so replacement of directors subject to the the Board has concluded that both the rules set out in the Articles, a summary of Board and its committees are functioning which is set out below.
Under the Articles, the minimum Meetings were held between the number of Directors shall be two and the Chairman and each individual Director in maximum shall be nine.
Directors may be which issues and developments over the appointed by the Company by ordinary year were discussed and performance resolution or by the Board.
ADirector was considered by reference to the appointed by the Board must offer himself objectives of the Board and its committees.
for election at the next Annual General Each Director also completed a formal Meeting of the Company following his questionnaire and responses were collated appointment but he is not taken into by the Company Secretary.
The results account in determining the Directors and issues raised were subsequently or the number of Directors who are to discussed by the Board together with retire by rotation at that meeting.
The progress against last years evaluation.
Directors to retire by rotation must be The Board also evaluated the Chairmans those who held office at the time of the performance.
two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not retire at either of them, or if they have held office with the Company for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated in other circumstances, including where i that Director resigns or is asked to resign: ii they are or have been suffering from mental ill health: iii they are absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months: iv they become bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 35 Corporate governance report continued Board and committee attendance The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled meetings of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the Directors.
Nominations Audit Remuneration Board and committee attendance Board committee committee committee Total number of meetings between 1 July 2009 and 30 June 2010 6 2 3 4 Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% 100% Mark Coombs 100% Graeme Dell 100% Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% Jonathan Asquith 100% 100% 100% 100% Melda Donnelly 100% 100% 100% 100% Combined Code.
Nick Land and Melda Board committees reviewing the Groups internal control Donnelly are chartered accountants and The Board has appointed audit, and risk management systems, Jonathan Asquith has previously served as remuneration and nominations committees reporting to the Board on the results of Chief Financial Officer of Schroders plc and to assist in the execution of its duties.
this review and receiving updates on key Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
All of these committees operate risks and controls: and A report on the activities of the audit within written terms of reference, which reviewing the committees terms of committee is set out below.
Theterms are reviewed annually and were updated reference, carrying out an annual of reference for the committee take by the Board in June 2010.
The Chairman performance evaluation exercise and into account the requirements of the of each committee reports regularly to noting the satisfactory operation of Combined Code and are available for theBoard.
inspection at the registered office and Each of the committees is authorised, at the Annual General Meeting and can at the Companys expense, to obtain The committee has requested and also be found on the Company website at external legal or other professional advice received reports from management to www.
com to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms The terms of reference for the members of each committee are entitled of reference.
committee include: to attend its meetings but others, such as The audit committee also has senior management and external advisors, responsibility for reviewing the Companys monitoring the integrity of the financial may be invited to attend as appropriate.
arrangements on whistle-blowing, ensuring statements of the Company, any Current membership of the that appropriate arrangements are in formal announcements relating to the committees is shown in the relevant place for employees to be able to raise, in Companys financial performance and sections below.
The composition of these confidence, matters of possible impropriety, any significant financial issues and committees is reviewed annually, taking with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
judgements contained in them: into consideration the recommendations of The committee has the authority to reviewing the Groups draft annual the nominations committee.
seek any information it requires to perform financial statements and interim results its duties from any employee of the Audit committee statement prior to discussion and Company and to obtain outside legal or approval by the Board and reviewing During the year under review the audit other independent professional advice as the external auditors detailed reports committee comprised the following nonappropriate.
thereon: executive Directors and was fully compliant Internal Audit attend all audit reviewing the external auditors plan with the Combined Code: committee meetings in full and report for the audit of the Groups financial directly to the audit committee on its statements, receiving and reviewing Nick Land Chairman programme of review and findings.
confirmations of auditor independence Melda Donnelly The number of committee meetings and approving the terms of engagement Jonathan Asquith and their attendance by the Directors and proposed fees for the audit: are set out in the table on page 36. making recommendations to the The Board is satisfied that for the year Representatives of KPMG Audit Plc, the Board for a resolution to be put under review and thereafter that Nick Chief Executive Officer and the Group to shareholders to approve the Land, Jonathan Asquith and Melda Finance Director attend each meeting as reappointment of the external auditors: Donnelly had and have recent and relevant a matter of practice and presentations reviewing the level and amount of commercial and financial knowledge and are made by the executive management external auditor non-audit services: experience to satisfy the provisions of the asrequired.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 36 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 Details of the activities of the re-election of Directors at the Annual Remuneration committee remuneration committee are set out in the General Meeting, and reviewing its terms The Group complied during the year with Remuneration report on pages 43 to 48. of reference.
The number of committee the Combined Code requirement that the The number of committee meetings meetings and their attendance by the remuneration committee should consist of and their attendance by the Directors Directors are set out in the table on at least three independent non-executive are set out in the table on page 36. page36.
The committee is chaired by Inaddition, and in accordance with the Jonathan Asquith with Michael Benson and Relations with shareholders terms of reference, the members of the Nick Land as members, all of whom served The Company places great importance on committee were also consulted on a range on the committee throughout the year.
communication with its investors and aims of issues during the year, including specific A report on the activities of the to keep shareholders informed by means matters related to recruitment.
committee is included in the Remuneration of regular communication with institutional report on pages 43 to 48.
The terms Nominations committee shareholders, analysts and the financial of reference for the committee take The nominations committee comprises press throughout the year.
into account the requirements of the three non-executive Directors: Michael Annual and interim reports and Combined Code and are available for Benson as Chairman, Nick Land and trading updates are widely distributed to inspection at the registered office, at the Jonathan Asquith.
All Directors served on other parties who may have an interest Annual General Meeting and can also the committee throughout the year.
These be found on the Company website at The terms of reference for the documents are also made available www.
com committee take into account the on the Companys website where The terms of reference for the requirements of the Combined Code formal Regulatory Information Service committee include: and are available for inspection at the announcements are also posted.
The registered office and at the Annual Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance reviewing the ongoing appropriateness General Meeting and can also be Director make regular reports to the and relevance of the remuneration found on the Company website at Board on investor relations and on specific policy: www.
com discussions with major shareholders and reviewing the design of all share The terms of reference for the the Board receives copies of all research incentive plans for approval by the committee include: published on the Company.
Board and shareholders: The 2010 Annual General Meeting ensuring that members of the executive will be attended by all Directors, and the reviewing the structure, size and management of the Company are Chairmen of the audit, nominations and composition including the skills, provided with appropriate incentives remuneration committees will be available knowledge and experience of the Board to encourage enhanced performance to answer questions.
Private investors are and its committees: and that remuneration incentives are encouraged to attend the Annual General reviewing annually the time required compatible with the Companys risk Meeting.
from each non-executive Director, policies and systems: The Senior Independent Director using performance evaluation to assess making recommendations to the Board is available to shareholders if they have whether the non-executive Director as to the Companys framework or concerns which contact through the is giving sufficient commitment to broad policy for the remuneration of normal channels of Chairman, Chief therole: the Chairman, the executive Directors Executive Officer or Group Finance Director giving full consideration to succession and the Company Secretary and has failed to resolve or for which such planning in the course of its work, to determine their total individual contact is inappropriate.
The Company taking into account the challenges and remuneration packages including continues to offer major shareholders opportunities facing the Company and bonuses, incentive payments and share the opportunity to meet any or all of the what skills and expertise are needed on options or other share awards: Chairman, the Senior Independent Director the Board in the future: and ensuring that a significant proportion and any new Directors.
ensuring that on appointment to the of executive Directors remuneration The Group will announce via a Board, non-executive Directors receive is structured so as to link rewards to Regulatory Information Service the number a formal letter of appointment setting corporate and individual performance of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the out clearly what is expected of them in and that performance conditions are Annual General Meeting and any other terms of time commitment, committee stretching and designed to promote the general meetings.
service and involvement outside Board long-term success of the Company: and meetings.
ensuring that contractual terms on Internal control and risk termination, and any payments made, management During the year the activities of the are fair to the individual and the In accordance with the principles committee have included reviewing the Company, that failure is not rewarded of the UK Corporate Governance Code requirements for potential independent and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully 2010, the Board is ultimately responsible non-executive candidates for appointment recognised.
for the Groups risk management and to the Board, proposals for rotation and Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 Corporate governance report continued internal control systems and for reviewing personnel, with each such individual being Policies their effectiveness.
Such systems and their responsible for day-to-day control of risk in core values and policies together review are designed to manage rather their business area.
comprising the Groups high-level than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve There are established policies and procedures to enable the Board, through principles and controls, with which all business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance its regular meetings, to monitor the staff are expected to comply: against material misstatement or loss.
effectiveness of the risk management and manuals of policies and procedures, Within the Groups over arching internal control systems which cover all applicable to all business units, with procedures for reporting weaknesses corporate governance framework, through significant identified internal and external and for monitoring corrective action: which the Board aims to maintain full and strategic, operational, financial, compliance a code of business conduct, with effective control over appropriate strategic, and other risks, including the Groups procedures for reporting compliance financial, operational and compliance ability to comply with all applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
therewith: issues, an internal control framework has been established, against which the The Board has continued to receive a defined operational framework Company is able to assess the effectiveness regular financial and other management and organisational structure with of its risk management and internal control information related to the control of appropriate delegation of authority with accountability that has regard to systems.
The Groups system of internal expenditure against budget and the acceptable levels of risk.
control is embedded within its routine making of investments, and for monitoring operations, and a strong control culture the Groups business and its performance, is combined with clear management and regular compliance and risk reports.
Processes responsibility and accountabilities for Through the audit committee, the a planning framework is maintained, individual control.
Theinternal control Board has conducted an annual review which incorporates a Board-approved framework provides an ongoing process and assessment of the effectiveness of strategic plan, with objectives for each for identifying, evaluating and managing the risk management and internal control business unit: the Groups significant risks, and has systems, and has identified no significant regular business reviews of the been in place for the year under review failings or weaknesses during this review.
Company and its subsidiaries are and up to the date of approval of the In conducting this review, the Board has performed by senior management, considered the periodic reports received annual report and accounts.
Theprocess which consider the ongoing effects of is regularly reviewed by the Board, and throughout the year on compliance and change and the short-, mediumand accords with the guidance in the document risk matters, including reports provided long-term operational requirements: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for by the Internal Audit function, and the quarterly senior management systems Directors on the Combined Code, October annual report on risk management and and controls reviews are undertaken 2005 Turnbull Guidance published by internal control processes from the risk by the Group Finance Director with the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board is the Head of Compliance, and Head of The executive Directors oversee satisfied that appropriate planned actions Risk Management and Control from continue to be effective in improving the key risks and controls and the risk June 2010 in which the Chief Executive management process on a day-tocontrols as the Group develops, and Officer participates at least annually, day basis, and have put in place an its overall assessment of the control which include evaluation of the potential organisational structure with clearly framework continues to be satisfactory.
impact and likelihood of identified risks defined lines of responsibility and The main features of the Groups risk and possible new risk areas: delegation of authority.
management and internal control systems a matrix of top risks identifies key The Groups risk and compliance are as follows: business, operational, financial and committee RCC which meets monthly, compliance risks, and considers the is responsible for maintaining a sound likelihood of those risks crystallising risk management and internal control and the resultant impact.
The inherent environment and for assessing the impact risk within each business activity has of the Groups ongoing activities on its been identified, with the adequacy and regulatory and operational exposures.
mitigating effect of existing processes The RCC is chaired by the Head of Risk being assessed to determine a current Management and Control the other residual risk level for each such activity.
members are the Chief Executive, the On the basis that further mitigants may Group Finance Director, the Head of be employed over time, a target residual Operations, the Head of Compliance, the risk for each activity after one to two Head of Information Technology, the Head years has been defined: of Legal and Transaction Management and the Group Financial Controller.
Responsibility for risk identification is shared amongst these senior management Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 38 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 key risk indicator KRI statistics are the Group compliance function, whose reported to and analysed by the RCC.
responsibility is to ensure that the The KRIs indicate trends in the Groups Group at all times meets its regulatory risk profile, assist in the reduction of obligations, and to integrate regulatory errors and potential financial losses and compliance procedures and best seek to prevent exposure by proactively practices within the Group, undertakes dealing with a potential risk situation an ongoing compliance monitoring before an event actually occurs: programme covering all the relevant there are well-defined procedures areas of the Groups operations, to seek governing the appraisal and approval to identify any breach of compliance of corporate investments, including with applicable financial services seeding of funds and purchase of regulation, which includes real-time own shares, with detailed investment investment restrictions monitoring of and divestment approval procedures, client mandate requirements.
Results of incorporating appropriate levels of the compliance monitoring programme authority and regular post-investment are reported to the RCC in support of reviews: the overall risk management framework.
the Group has secure information and communication systems capable Verification of capturing relevant and up-to-date the external auditors are engaged information by relevant personnel: to express an opinion on the annual strong financial controls are maintained financial statements, and also to ensure accurate accounting for independently and objectively review transactions, appropriate authorisation the approach of management to limits to contain exposures, and reporting operating results and financial reliability of data processing and the condition: integrity of information generated: the Internal Audit function undertakes a an in-depth annual budget is reviewed programme of reviews as determined by and approved by the Board and is the Board, reporting the results together regularly subject to update through a with its advice and recommendations to formal re-forecasting process: the audit committee.
The Internal Audit Board members receive monthly function is currently provided under management accounts and other an outsourcing arrangement by Ernst relevant reports, which highlight actual & Young this arrangement will be financial performance against budget subject to periodic review: forecast and prior year period: annual reports are reviewed detailed investment reports are independently by the Groups external prepared and discussed at each of the auditors pursuant to the Statement sub-committee meetings of the Groups of Auditing Standards No.
70, type II investment committee, which take SAS70 : place weekly or monthly depending the Board, through the audit committee, on investment theme, with following receives half-yearly updates from the actions agreed and implemented within Groups external auditors which include a strict operational framework: any control matters that have come to oversight of the valuation their attention.
methodologies used for clients fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is the responsibility of the Groups pricing methodology committee PMC which meets monthly to review the current valuation methodology for each of these investments and to propose an updated valuation methodology where appropriate: Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39
