112 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Risk committee report This report provides details of the role of the Risk Committee and Committee activities during 2010 the work it has undertaken during the year.
The committee oversees all aspects of risk management in the The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board in Group, including market, credit, liquidity, insurance and providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Groups operational, and their impact on both financial and non-financial management of risk.
The full terms of reference for the goals.
During the year the committee focused on the following committee can be found on the Companys website, areas: www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance Strengthening risk management across the Group: the terms-of-reference, and are also available from the group committee approved a comprehensive Risk Plan the Plan company secretary.
which sets out the further steps needed to deliver leading The following independent non-executive directors served on standards of risk management at all levels of the business.
the committee during the year: The Plan is based on setting clear statements of risk appetite, especially for economic capital and liquidity, and rigorously Period managing all risk exposures within these limits.
It allocates Member From To responsibilities for risk management between the first, second Mary Francis Chairman 14 January 2006 To date and third lines of defence, with a strong emphasis on the Michael Hawker 1 January 2010 To date responsibilities of front-line management.
The Groups risk Leslie Van fide Walle 24 September 2009 To date Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date appetite has been thoroughly reviewed by the committee and the Board has approved a Group risk appetite statement which is being cascaded throughout the Group.
The chief risk Attendance officer has overall responsibility for the Plan and reports Number of meetings held 7 regularly to the committee on progress against the Plan.
Mary Francis Chairman 7 Michael Hawker 7 Preparing for Solvency II: the committee continued to Leslie Van fide Walle 7 oversee all aspects of the programme to implement the Russell Walls 7 Solvency II Directive by the end of 2012.
The Directive requires insurance companies to maintain an adequate The committee met on seven occasions in 2010 and the surplus of economic capital i. e. the capital required to members attendance record is set out above.
In addition the ensure that a companys liabilities can be met after defined committee held separate meetings with members of senior risks have materialised.
As well as requiring high standards management and the external auditor to discuss issues relevant of risk management delivered by the Risk Plan see above, to the committee and for the purposes of induction and training.
the directive entails the development of sophisticated The group company secretary acts as the secretary to the models to calculate economic capital requirements, and committee.
stress testing techniques to check and monitor actual The group chief executive, chief risk officer, chief financial levels of economic capital.
The committee received regular officer, chief audit officer and the external auditor normally progress reports on these matters throughout the year.
attended, by invitation, all meetings of the committee.
Other It reviewed and approved the submission of the premembers of senior management were also invited to attend as application qualifying criteria assessment template required appropriate to present reports.
It was the committees practice by the FSA as part of the Solvency II internal model approval at each meeting to meet separately with the chief risk officer, process and reviewed the Quantitative Impact Study 5 the chief audit officer and the external auditor without any results and the likely impact of Solvency II on the Groups members of management being present.
In performing its duties, economic capital requirements and businesses.
the committee had access to the services of the chief audit officer, Risk monitoring: the committee received regular reports on the chief risk officer and the group company secretary and key risk exposures, the drivers of risk in the Group, emerging external professional advisers.
and potential risks, and actions taken to mitigate any risks The chairman of the committee reported to subsequent that were out of appetite.
Working with the Audit meetings of the Board on the committees work and the Committee, it also monitored the adequacy of the Group Board received a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the control framework.
The committee focused particularly on committee.
The chairman of the committee sits on the Audit and monitoring the Groups capital and liquidity positions against Remuneration committees to ensure that risk considerations are risk appetite, the results of stress and scenario testing, and the fully reflected in their decisions.
drivers of financial and insurance risks since these give rise to the majority of the Groups capital requirements under External background both the current IGD and ICA and the future Solvency II During 2010 the economic and market environment remained regimes.
The committee continued its practice of inviting challenging for the Group and the Board and the committee business unit and regional teams, led by their chief executive, continued to concentrate on financial risk and capital and liquidity to present on how risk is managed in their businesses.
In particular the development of the Solvency II the year, presentations were received from Aviva USA, Delta Directive and the resultant requirements of the new economic Lloyd and the UK Region.
capital regime were an important area of focus.
Governance 113 Performance review Aviva plc Risk committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Group risk management policies: the committee More detail on the management of risk is contained in the approved significant changes to the Group Distribution policy, Risk management section of the Performance review on pages the Group Brand and Marketing policy and the Group 65 to 68.
Customer policy and received regular reports on compliance During the year the committee held several joint meetings with Group policies.
with the Audit Committee and one with the members of the Operational risks: the committee paid particular attention business unit audit committee in Spain.
to business protection and IT security risks, and how business In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board units were embedding the Group IT and Business Protection undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees policies.
during the year, including the Risk Committee.
Regulatory risks and relationships: the committee This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on received regular reports on compliance issues and regulatory 2 March 2011. and other public policy initiatives.
In particular, it monitored Mary Francis the actions being taken by management in response to the Chairman, Risk Committee FSAs Risk Mitigation Programme and management responses to proposed changes in the prudential requirements for financial services companies.
Fraud and financial crime: the committee maintained regular oversight of compliance with controls against financial malpractice including fraud, and of the arrangements for employees to report in confidence any concerns about lack of probity whistleblowing.
Internal controls: Internal Audit provided the committee with independent and objective assurance over the appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of internal controls.
Key control issues reported by Internal Audit to management and to the committee members were monitored on a quarterly basis until the risk exposure had been properly mitigated.
The chart below shows how the committee allocated its time during 2010.
Risk Committee Allocation of agenda time % Risk management and risk appetite 32 Group risk report and Group audit report 29 Solvency II and capital position and targets 11 Group internal capital assessment, IGD and economic capital 7 Business protection and IT security 3 Stress testing 3 Others Group liquidity position, 2009 Report and Accounts, Group policies, Aviva USA update, Aviva Investors update, Delta Lloyd update, UK Risk Committee update 15
