Governance 103 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information The Board evaluation process assessed the executive directors in During 2010, the chairman and the non-executive directors met their capacities as directors of the Company.
They were evaluated in the absence of the executive directors and the non-executive in respect of their executive duties through a separate process directors met in the absence of the chairman, including one whereby the chairman and the non-executive directors assessed meeting chaired by the senior independent director in order the group chief executive and the group chief executive assessed to appraise the chairmans performance.
Board committees Following this comprehensive review, the directors have concluded that the Board and its committees operate effectively The Board has established the following standing committees and agreed that the actions in respect of certain processes to oversee and debate important issues of policy and oversight identified for improvement in previous reviews had been outside the main Board meetings: implemented.
The Board also agreed to increase focus on the Audit Committee: external environment and peer group analysis.
Additionally, Corporate Responsibility Committee: the chairman has concluded that each director contributes Nomination Committee: effectively and demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
Remuneration Committee: and Risk Committee.
Training and development The Board believes strongly in the development of all its Throughout the year the chairman of each committee provided employees and directors and it is a requirement of each directors the Board with a summary of the key issues considered at the appointment that they commit to continue their development.
meetings of the committees and the minutes of the meetings The form that this development takes is subject to individual were circulated to the Board.
The committees operate within directors requirements and the quality and relevance of the defined terms of reference which are available on the Companys training available.
com investor-relations corporateDuring the year, directors attended a number of internal and governance terms-of-reference, or from the group company external courses including training on Solvency II for the Board secretary upon request.
Board committees are authorised to and on IFRS Phase II for members of the Audit Committee.
engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in There was a joint training session for members of the Risk and the furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Audit committees on the global corporate structure and the Risk Reports of the committee chairmen are set out on pages 109 Committee members also attended training on economic capital to 136. and stress testing.
Training sessions have also been built into the Aviva plc governance structure Boards and committees work plans for 2011.
The Board made visits to the Groups businesses located in the UK, Spain, Turkey, Italy and Poland during the year to gain a closer understanding of Aviva plc Board their operations.
The Board has a comprehensive induction programme consisting of several separate sessions which take place over a number of months at times convenient for the director.
Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Risk The sessions include presentations from key members of senior Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Committee management, visits to the Groups main operating businesses, Committee and meetings with the external auditor and one of the Companys corporate brokers.
Further or follow-up meetings are arranged where a director requires a deeper understanding on a Disclosure Group Executive Committee Committee particular issue.
Directors attendance The Company requires directors to attend all meetings of the Group Asset Group Board and the committees on which they serve and to devote Liability Committee Operational Risk Committee sufficient time to the Company in order to perform their duties.
The attendance of the directors at the Board meetings held in 2010 is shown in the table below and the attendance at committee meetings is shown in the committee reports.
Board attendance 2010 Number of meetings held 10 Mary Francis 10 Richard Karl Goeltz 10 Euleen Goh 10 Michael Hawker 10 Mark Hodges 10 Andrea Moneta 10 Andrew Moss 10 Carole Piwnica 9 Patrick Regan 9 Lord Sharman 10 Leslie Van fide Walle 9 Russell Walls 9 Scott Wheway 10 There were eight scheduled Board meetings during 2010 and two additional meetings called at short notice.
Appointed to the Board on 22 February 2010.
