110 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Audit committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and actions taken on previously reported issues.
The committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
also reviews, approves and monitors the annual work plan for the The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board in Groups internal audit function and approves the annual plan for discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the Group and the external audit.
Twice each year, the committee receives Companys financial statements, the assessment of the reports on the adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general effectiveness of the systems of internal control and monitoring insurance reserves.
The committee reports to the Board regarding the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external the effectiveness of the Groups overall systems of internal control auditors.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be including the risk management systems in relation to the financial found on the Companys website, www.
The committee works closely with the Risk relations corporate-governance terms-of-reference, and are also Committee, which assists the committee in its review of the available from the group company secretary.
Companys systems of internal control and risk management.
The following independent non-executive directors, served on The committee receives reports from the external auditor and, the committee during the year: at all scheduled meetings, holds discussions with both the chief audit officer and external auditors in the absence of Period management.
The chairman of the committee reports to the Member From To subsequent meeting of the Board on the committees work and Russell Walls Chairman 1 July 2004 To date the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of Mary Francis 1 January 2007 To date the committee.
The chart below shows how the committee Richard Karl Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date allocated its time during 2010.
Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Audit Committee Allocation of agenda time % Attendance Number of meetings held 11 Russell Walls Chairman 11 Mary Francis 10 Financial reporting 35 Richard Karl Goeltz 11 Internal audit and controls 21 Euleen Goh 10 External audit and external !
auditors report 9 There were nine scheduled Audit Committee meetings during 2010 and two additional meetings called at short notice.
External auditor engagement and policy 9 The committee met on 11 occasions in 2010 and the members Financial reporting control framework and financial reporting attendance record is set out above.
In addition, the committee developments 18 held separate meetings with members of senior management and Others including tax, treasury the external auditors to discuss issues relevant to the committee !
and dividends 8 and for the purpose of training.
The group company secretary acts as the secretary to the committee.
During the year, the committee held several joint meetings with Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, is a the Risk Committee and one with the members of the business former group finance director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and unit audit committee in Spain.
This meeting allowed the Coats Viyella plc.
Richard Goeltz is a former chief financial officer committee to gain a deeper understanding of the relevant local of American Express Company and NatWest Group plc and a issues and assess the effectiveness of the systems of internal former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Euleen Goh, control and the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and a Chartered Accountant and member of the Chartered Institute external auditors in that business.
of Taxation, is a former financial controller of Pontiac Land and Each of the Groups other major business units has an audit chief executive of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore.
The Board committee that provides an oversight role for its business.
The is satisfied that these directors have recent and relevant financial chief audit officer reviews the papers and minutes from these experience for the purpose of the Combined Code and are committees and brings all significant matters to the committees financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanesattention.
The chief audit officer also attends regional and Oxley Act 2002.
The group chief executive, chief financial officer, business unit audit committee meetings on a regular basis and chief audit officer, chief accounting officer, chief risk officer and reports back on the effectiveness of these committees to the the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of committee.
In addition, during 2010 the members of the the committee.
Other members of senior management are also committee attended several local audit committee meetings, invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
In performing including those in Aviva USA, Aviva UK Life, Aviva UKGI, Aviva its duties, the committee has access to the services of the chief Investors, Hong Kong, Singapore, India, and Ireland and the audit officer, the group company secretary and external Europe Region Oversight Committee.
This programme of professional advisers.
Keith Nicholson, a former partner at attendance at local audit committee meetings will continue KPMG LLP, acts as an external adviser to the committee.
During the year, a UK Regional Board was formed with a duly Committee activities during 2010 constituted UK Audit Committee UKAC.
The chairman who is a The committee follows an agreed annual work plan.
It reviews, non-executive director, and members of the UKAC one of with members of management and the internal and external whom is also a non-executive director on the UK Regional Board, auditors, the Companys financial announcements including the are appointed by the UK Board with the agreement of the Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders and associated chairman of the committee.
Working closely with the UK Risk documentation.
It places particular emphasis on their fair Committee, the UKAC assists the UK Regional Board in presentation and the reasonableness of the judgemental factors discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the UK regions and appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in financial statements and the effectiveness of the systems of their preparation.
At each meeting, the committee receives a internal control and risk management and to monitor the report from the chief audit officer concerning the Companys effectiveness, performance and objectivity of the internal and systems of internal control, including any significant new issues Governance 111 Performance review Aviva plc Audit committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information external auditors.
In addition it provides assurance to the the non-audit services of the external auditor, including requiring committee that the UK region is discharging its responsibilities in that all services provided by the external auditor are pre-approved accordance with policies laid down by the Group Board.
It distinguishes between those services where an independent view is required and that should be performed by Internal audit the external auditor such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work, prohibited services where the independence Internal Audit reports to management on the effectiveness of the of the external auditor could be threatened and they must not be Companys systems of internal control, the adequacy of these used, and other non-audit services where the external auditor systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups may be used.
Non-audit services where the external auditor may assets and resources.
Internal Audit is fully centralised and each be used include: non-recurring internal controls and risk country region head has a full reporting line to the chief audit management reviews i. e. excluding outsourcing of internal audit officer with the exception of Delta Lloyd and some of the work, advice on financial reporting and regulatory matters, due Groups joint ventures.
The chief audit officer reports to the diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and group chief executive and to the chairman of the committee.
advice, tax compliance services, and employee tax services.
Through the chief audit officer, Internal Audit provides objective The committee receives a quarterly report of compliance against assurance on risk appetite and controls to the committee.
The the external auditor policy and the policy has worked effectively plans, the level of resources, the budget of the Internal Audit during 2010. function and the remuneration of the chief audit officer are Annually, the committee reviews a formal letter provided by reviewed and approved at least annually by the committee.
the external auditor confirming its independence and objectivity During 2010 the committee worked closely with management on within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and the appointment of a new chief audit officer.
The committee also professional standards.
undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit The Group paid 18.6 million to Ernst & Young for audit against guidance criteria provided by the Institute of Chartered services in 2010, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Accountants in England and Wales and by the Institute of Internal Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries Auditors IIA.
Every five years the review is performed by an and associates pursuant to legislation 2009: 17.9 million.
independent party as required by the IIA standards.
The last The fees for other services, which included MCEV supplementary independent review was performed in 2008. reporting, advice on accounting and regulatory matters, reporting During 2010 Internal Audit carried out assurance reviews over on internal controls, reporting on the Groups Individual Capital inherent risks throughout the Group.
Reviews were focused on, Assessment, and due diligence work, were 7.0 million 2009: but not limited to, areas such as financial risk management, 16.1 million, giving a total fee to Ernst & Young of 25.6 million governance and oversight of the Group, the Group compliance 2009: 34.0 million.
framework and major projects including Quantum and Solvency II.
The Group paid 1.7 million to Ernst & Young in relation to other non-audit services.
This included two significant External auditor engagements, which were both at Delta Lloyd Bank Belgium Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young was appointed external DLBB : 0.4 million in relation to a report to DLBBs management auditor of the Company in 2001 having previously been the and strategy committee, and 0.4 million in relation to a review auditor of Norwich Union plc.
During the year, the committee of DLBBs cost base.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that for performed its annual review of the independence, effectiveness both engagements, robust controls including appropriate levels and objectivity of the external auditor, assessing the audit firm, of review and challenge by DLBB management were in place to the audit partner and audit teams.
The process was conducted by ensure that E&Ys objectivity and independence was safeguarded, means of a questionnaire, completed Group-wide by members of and concluded that it was in the interests of the Company to senior management and members of the Groups finance purchase these services from E&Y due to its specific expertise in community and the committee.
The questionnaire sought the Belgian banking market.
Further details are provided in note opinions on the importance of certain criteria and the 12 to the consolidated financial statements IFRS.
performance of the external auditor against those criteria.
Based In addition, the Group engaged Ernst & Young to provide on this review, the committee concluded that the audit service of assurance on the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report.
Ernst & Young was fit for purpose and provided a robust overall In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board examination of the Groups business and the risks involved.
undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees Following this review, the committee recommended that a reduring the year, including the Audit Committee.
tender process should not be undertaken in 2010 but that the This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on relationship and the effectiveness of the auditor be kept under 2 March 2011. review.
Ernst & Young audits all significant subsidiaries of the Group.
Russell Walls The Company introduced a revised external auditor policy on Chairman, Audit Committee 1 January 2008 aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The policy is regularly reviewed and if necessary updated to reflect current global best practice on auditor independence, and is in full compliance with all UK, US and International Federation of Accountants IFAC rules.
The revised external auditor policy aims to be simpler to interpret, providing greater clarity on what services may and may not be provided by the Groups external auditors.
The external auditor policy regulates the appointment of former audit employees to senior finance positions in the Group and sets out the approach to be taken by the Group when using
