Governance 109 Performance review Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Nomination committee report Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information This report provides details of the role of the Nomination Committee activities during 2010 Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
During the year, the committee initiated a review of the The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board by succession plans for appointments to the Board to ensure that keeping the composition of the Board under review and an appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when that there is progressive refreshing of the Board.
Several nonrecommending or renewing appointments of directors to the executive directors, including the Company chairman are due to Board.
It also advises the Board on issues of directors conflicts of retire in 2012 and 2013 on the basis of their completion of nine interest and independence.
The full terms of reference for the years of service in line with the Combined Code guidance.
An committee can be found on the Companys website, external search agency has been retained to identify potential www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance candidates for future appointments and the committee has terms-of-reference, and are also available from the group prepared a job specification, including an assessment of the time company secretary.
The search will be The following directors served on the committee during conducted and any appointments will be made, on merit, against the year: the criteria identified by the committee having regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The senior Period independent director will chair the committee when it is dealing Member From To with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship of Lord Sharman Chairman 25 January 2006 To date the Company.
Mary Francis 2 December 2009 To date In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board Richard Karl Goeltz 29 July 2008 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees Russell Walls 23 January 2007 To date during the year, including the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee notes that the Combined Code does not preclude the group chief executive from This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on membership of the committee and the committee believes that his input is essential and invaluable in its discussions and therefore important that this is obtained through his membership of the committee.
Any concern about this will 2 March 2011. be allayed by the predominant membership of independent non-executive directors on the committee.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch Attendance Chairman, Nomination Committee Number of meetings held 2 Lord Sharman Chairman 2 Mary Francis 2 Richard Karl Goeltz 2 Andrew Moss 2 Russell Walls 2 The committee met on two occasions in 2010 and the members attendance record is set out above.
The group company secretary acts as the secretary to the committee.
The committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conflicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the Company.
The committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the Board.
The results of these reviews are important when the Board considers succession planning and the re-election of directors.
Members of the committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
The chart below shows how the committee allocated its time during 2010.
Nomination Committee Allocation of agenda time % Succession planning 35 Conicts of interest 25 Independence 20 Others including corporate governance matters 20
