102 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Leslie Van fide Walle Summary of directors skills and experience Mr Van fide Walle has brought to the Board extensive marketing Mary Francis CBE and brand knowledge together with a wealth of experience in Mrs Francis has a distinguished record with extensive experience growing and developing businesses.
With his multi-sector of business at an international level.
Her experience in experience and strong analytical ability, he has contributed government affairs and in the financial services industry is an significantly to the deliberations of the Board.
invaluable asset to the Company.
Russell Walls Richard Karl Goeltz Mr Walls has a strong financial background and a wealth Mr Goeltz has a strong financial background with over 30 years of international business experience in addition to valuable experience of international business and leadership in major experience of audit committees.
With his financial acumen global corporations.
In addition, he has excellent experience of and thorough, common sense approach, he has contributed audit and governance committees.
significantly to the discussions of the Board.
Euleen Goh Scott Wheway Ms Goh has extensive experience and knowledge both from Mr Wheway has a wealth of business experience in the retail an executive and non-executive standpoint.
She has a strong sector and has been a champion of excellent customer service.
understanding of risk and product issues in financial services and He has provided key insights into the Companys strategy of has brought a new insight to the Companys operations in Asia.
putting the customer at the heart of business.
Michael Hawker AM The chairman and group chief executive Mr Hawker has a wealth of industry knowledge with over 24 The respective roles of the chairman and group chief executive are years of experience in the banking and insurance industry in both set out in the Boards terms of reference.
The chairmans priority is executive and non-executive roles in Europe, Asia and Australia.
the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness and the He also has valuable experience of risk committees.
group chief executives priority is the management of the Mark Hodges Company.
The chairmans commitment to the Company is two to Mr Hodges has made a significant contribution to the Boards three days per week and his main interests outside the Company discussions and brings both operational and strategic expertise as are set out in his biographical details on page 94. well as significant experience and knowledge about the Groups business in the UK.
Senior independent director Under the Combined Code the Board appoints one of the nonIgal Mayer executive directors to act as senior independent director.
The role Mr Mayer has implemented significant changes to the Companys of the senior independent director is to provide a sounding board North American business, resulting in a strong performance from for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for the other the region in 2010.
He brings to the Board an international directors where necessary.
His main responsibility is to be available perspective and a detailed knowledge of the Group in particular to shareholders should they have concerns that they have been and the insurance industry in general.
unable to resolve through normal channels, or when such channels would be inappropriate.
During the year, and led by the Andrew Moss senior independent director, the non-executive directors have Mr Moss has extensive experience and knowledge of the financial twice met without the chairman present.
The senior independent services industry.
He has successfully led the Group since 2007, director is also responsible for leading the Boards discussion on transforming it into a successful global business operating under a the chairmans performance and the appointment of a new single brand.
Mr Mosss strong leadership skills and clear strategic chairman, when appropriate.
Richard Goeltz has served as the vision make him a valuable contributor to Board discussions.
senior independent director since January 2009.
Carole Piwnica Board effectiveness Mrs Piwnica has extensive business and commercial experience together with significant knowledge of the regulatory The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group environment in the European Union and has made a significant and the Company undertakes a rigorous evaluation each year in contribution to the discussions of the Board.
order to assess how well the Board, its committees, the directors and the chairman are performing.
The aim is to improve the Patrick Regan effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the Groups Mr Regan has a deep understanding of, and extensive experience performance.
The process is led by the chairman and supported in, various executive functions within the insurance industry.
With by the group company secretary.
Once again this year the review his significant financial experience and global perspective, he has was carried out by Boardroom Review, an independent greatly contributed to the deliberations of the Board.
consultancy, and was based on the progress the Board had made on the actions identified in previous effectiveness reviews.
Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE Boardroom Review prepared a report based on interviews with Lord Sharman has wide ranging international experience in the the directors and the overall results of the evaluation were financial services industry and a wealth of non-executive presented to, and discussed by, the Board in January 2011. experience which includes numerous non-executive directorships The performance of the chairman was also included in the and the chairmanship of various listed companies.
He has an above process and took into account the views of both the excellent track record of working with and leading diverse executive and non-executive directors.
The chairmans evaluation international businesses and has applied these skills to his was managed by the senior independent director who provided chairmanship of the Companys Board.
As part of the chairmans evaluation the non-executive directors met separately under the chairmanship of the senior independent director.
