R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 23 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 23 Report of the Directors continued h Principal risks and uncertainties Financial By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company business activities are exposed to market risk including and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and market price risk, currency risk and interest rate risk, restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk.
Details of objectives and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as these risks and how they are managed are contained in practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and Note 17 to the Financial Statements on pages 49 to 57. the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: Operational Portfolio and market Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities dealing or payment systems or the custodians records that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the move sharply.
The companies in which investments are Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers the market value of the Companys portfolio would have may not provide the required level of service.
Details of an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board how the Board monitors the services provided by the reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
designed to provide effective internal control, are explained Investment activity and performance further in the internal controls section on page 28.
An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in Corporate Governance Statement underperformance against the Companys benchmark a Application of the AIC Codes Principles index and the companies in its peer group.
The Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance monitors investment performance at each Board meeting of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UK Listing and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Tax and regulatory risks 2008 Combined Code.
As an investment trust, most of the A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the 2008 corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could Combined Code are directly applicable to the Company.
result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The February 2009 that it remained the view of the FRC that by Company must also ensure compliance with the listing following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
The Manager Companies produced by the Association of Investment has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment companies administration and accounting services through qualified should fully meet their obligations in relation to the 2008 professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
The produced by the Manager on a quarterly basis, which AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as confirmed regulatory compliance during the year.
explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out
