R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 28 28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued discretion to act.
The Board thus supervises the management interviews were held between the directors and the Senior Independent Director.
The process is considered by the of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for of unquoted investments and all investments in in-house improving the functioning and performance of the Board funds managed or advised by the Manager.
It also has and the Committees, the contribution of individual adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by the Manager which, through its The Chairman attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust companies managed by the Manager: these nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that meetings provide a forum to discuss a variety of relevant the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
During the matters and the Chairman reports on them to the Board.
year the Company has maintained insurance cover in The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees respect of legal action against the directors: this does not held during the year and the attendance of individual cover fraud, negligence or wilful default.
All directors attend the Annual g Internal Controls General Meeting.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems Management Audit Nominations Engagement Charities of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
BoardCommittee Committee Committee Committee These controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are No.
of meetings 7 3 2 1 2 safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and Mr R D Brewster 7 n a 2 1 2 the financial information used within the business and for Mr R R J Burns 6 n a 2 1 n a publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering Mr R W Killingbeck 7 2 2 1 n a financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is Mr F I Sumner 7 3 2 1 2 embedded in the controls of the Company by a series of Mr D G Thomas 3 2 n a 1 n a regular investment performance and attribution statements, Mr M W J Thorne 7 3 n a 1 n a financial and risk analyses and Managers reports, and a quarterly control report.
Key risks have been identified and Mr Thomas retired on 23 February 2010. controls have been put in place to mitigate such risks, The membership of each Committee is shown on page 64 including those risks that are not directly the responsibility of of this report.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Managers compliance and risk departments f Performance Evaluation on a continuing basis and is also reviewed by the Company.
The Company The performance of the Company is considered in detail at The Manager and the custodian maintain their own systems of each Board meeting.
internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Manager.
The control systems are The Board designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the against material misstatement or loss, and to manage rather Committees and the individual directors, the Chairman has than eliminate risk of failure to achieve objectives.
put in place and carried out a thorough appraisal process.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
