28 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e a an nd d a ac cc co ou un nt ta ab biilliit ty y In 2010, the world economy began to recover from the most significant 2010 again saw us hold a number of additional Board and Board Committee meetings over and above our regular, scheduled meetings.
Non-executive shock it has experienced in generations.
This gradual recovery has allowed the Board to shift its focus from dealing with the immediacy of events to Directors have continued to make themselves available, often at short notice, and each of them has been unstinting in the time they are prepared to commit formulating and developing a long-term strategy for the post-crisis world.
A particular focus has been to ensure that the Group can earn a return on to Barclays.
Our Charter of Expectations, which is available on our website, sets out the expectations that the Board of Barclays demands of its Directors.
This equity in excess of its cost of equity.
includes a detailed role profile and key performance indicators for each of the key positions on the Board.
Our agenda in 2010 was shaped by the uncertain regulatory environment, the strategic challenges and opportunities that regulatory developments may present On joining the Board, each non-executive Director is provided with a bespoke for our business model, and how we should respond.
Our strategy discussions culminated at our dedicated strategy meeting in November, at which we reviewed induction which involves meetings with each executive Director, members of the Group Executive Committee, and key senior executives responsible for business each business portfolio with a view to assessing which businesses are producing, or are capable of producing, returns over the cost of equity.
2010 also saw areas and functions.
The meetings focus on the challenges, opportunities and risks facing Barclays.
On appointment to a Board committee, non-executive significant debate and regulatory action with respect to remuneration in the banking sector and Sir Richard Broadbent, Chairman of the Board Remuneration Directors are provided with a further Committee specific induction.
We believe that induction and professional development are critical to ensure that Directors Committee, reports to you on page 19 on the work of the Committee in 2010. can perform effectively and seek to make sure that all Directors have appropriate knowledge of the company and access to its operations and staff by arranging Another focus in 2010 was Board composition, including the appointment of Bob Diamond as Chief Executive, which I discuss in more detail opposite.
The regular briefing sessions for our non-executive Directors.
In 2010 non-executive Directors attended briefings on Treating Customers Fairly, Barclays Capital, succession process was critical in ensuring that we have the right leadership in place to deliver our strategy in the new regulatory environment.
Derivatives and Risk Based Pricing.
There has been much recent debate around Board diversity, in particular, the After careful consideration, and in light of the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has agreed that each of the Directors representation of women on the boards of companies.
We recognise the importance of diversity on boards and support the recommendation of the will submit themselves for re-election at the Companys AGM to be held on Wednesday 27th April 2011.
UK Corporate Governance Code that UK boards should have regard to diversity, including gender, when making board appointments.
We believe, however, that diversity is about more than gender: it is about ensuring that there is an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience and background on the Board.
As a global banking group, we believe it is important to maintain a majority of independent non-executive Directors on the Board, with approximately 50% having banking or financial experience.
We were fortunate Marcus Agius to be joined this year by Dambisa Moyo and Alison Carnwath: they both bring Group Chairman relevant, financial and other experience to the Board and these appointments have widened the range of perspectives brought to our Board deliberations.
10th March 2011 a Industry background experience Appointing a new Chief Executive 2010 We began our search for a successor to John Varley by drawing up the role 1 Financial services 6 requirements for the Chief Executive position, covering both the general background experience required and the desired attributes across a range of 8 2 Accountancy financial background 4 7 key competencies.
Essential, of course, was that the next Chief Executive should 1 3 Retail marketing 1 have financial services experience and, given the size of our investment banking 6 4 Government experience 3 business following the Lehmans acquisition, we felt that knowledge and experience of investment banking would be essential.
The attributes we sought 5 Business School 1 5 2 included a proven track record in strategic thinking, in business leadership and 6 Corporate Finance 3 4 execution of strategy, in leading and developing people and building capability.
3 7 International Europe 1 We also sought candidates who could lead and manage change, who could 8 International US 2 work with and influence multiple stakeholders and who had a strong awareness of and commitment to risk management, control and governance.
Board allocation of time It was evident to us from an early stage that Bob Diamond was a strong internal 2010 % 2009 % candidate to succeed John.
Nonetheless, it was important that we tested the 1 Strategy Formulation and market and we conducted a benchmarking exercise against potential external Implementation Monitoring 51 22 candidates, who were identified with the assistance of a search consultant, 5 4 2 Finance before coming to a recommendation.
We also felt that, if possible, the exercise including capital and liquidity 20 25 3 should be carried out discreetly in order to minimise any risk of disruption to 3 Governance and Risk the business.
Having fully tested the market and assessed all candidates 1 including regulatory issues 20 13 against the role requirements, we agreed to recommend to the Board the appointment of Bob Diamond.
The recommendation followed meetings 4 Corporate Finance 2 33 2 between Bob and all the non-executive Directors in order that he could set out 5 Other his vision and strategic priorities for the Group and respond to questions and including compensation 7 7 challenge.
We announced on 7th September 2010 that Bob would succeed John on 1st April 2011 following a transition and handover period.
I am pleased to say that the transition period went smoothly and we were able to bring forward the handover date to 1st January 2011, which we announced on Note 17th December 2010. a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
