About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 147 have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable the Directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing accounts.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means Internal control information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management maintain an effective system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Annual General Meeting Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and The Barclays PLC AGM will be held at the Royal Festival Hall on Wednesday 27th April 2011.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is included in a not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year ended 31st December 2010, and to date, the Group has operated separate document sent to shareholders with this report.
A summary of the resolutions being proposed at the 2011 AGM is set out below.
a system of internal control which provides reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations covering all controls, including financial Ordinary Resolutions and operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the To receive the Directors and Auditors Reports and the audited accounts for the year ended 31st December 2010: significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Board regularly reviews these 31st December 2010: processes through its principal Board Committees.
To re-elect each of the Directors of the Company: The Directors review the effectiveness of the system of internal control To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company: semi-annually.
An internal control compliance certication process is conducted throughout the Group in support of this review.
The To authorise the Directors to set the remuneration of the auditors: effectiveness of controls is periodically reviewed within the business areas.
To authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make political Regular reports are made to the Board Audit Committee by management, donations and incur political expenditure: Internal Audit and the finance, compliance and legal functions covering particularly financial controls, compliance and operational controls.
To renew the authority given to Directors to allot securities: The Board Audit Committee monitors resolution of any identied control To approve and adopt the rules of the new Barclays Long Term Incentive issues of Group level signicance through to a satisfactory conclusion.
Plan: and The Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF describes To approve and adopt the rules of the Barclays Share Value Plan.
the Groups approach to internal control and details Group policies and processes.
The GICAF is reviewed and approved on behalf of the Chief Special Resolutions To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for cash Executive by the Group Governance and Control Committee.
other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders and to sell treasury shares: Regular risk reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group signicance including credit risk, market risk, operational risk and legal To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares: and risk.
Reports covering credit, market and operational risk, key risks, risk measurement methodologies and risk appetite are made to the Board To permit General Meetings to continue to be called on 14 clear days notice.
Further details of risk management procedures are given in the Risk management section on pages 66 to 142.
This is only a summary of the business to be transacted at the meeting Managements report on internal control over financial reporting and you should refer to the Notice of Annual General Meeting for full details.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial Going concern reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal executive and principal financial ofcers to provide reasonable assurance The Groups business activities and financial position: the factors likely to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with capital are discussed in the Business Review.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Directors report continued The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 187 to Internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 270, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy authorisations of Management and the Directors : and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 2006. acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material affect on the financial statements.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk Disclosure controls and procedures that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or The Chief Executive, Bob Diamond, and the Group Finance Director, Chris Lucas, conducted with Group Management an evaluation of the procedures may deteriorate.
effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December 2010, which are dened Management has assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31st December 2010.
In making its assessment, as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports led or submitted under the US Management has utilised the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the US Securities and Integrated Framework.
Management concluded that, based on its assessment, the internal control over financial reporting was effective Exchange Commissions rules and forms.
As of the date of the evaluation, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director concluded that the design as of 31st December 2010. and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Our independent registered public accounting rm has issued a report on Barclays Group internal control over financial reporting which is set out The Directors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: on page 186. a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays PLC and the to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Further undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk Management section on b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors Report on pages 143 to 148, includes a fair review of the development pages 139 to 142. and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, Changes in internal control over financial reporting There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over financial together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report which that they face.
have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect internal control over financial reporting.
Signed on behalf of the Board Statement of Directors responsibilities for accounts The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on page 185, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
Marcus Agius Group Chairman The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance 10th March 2011 with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
48839 The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
