10 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 Leadership and governance Board of Directors Marcus Agius 64 Bob Diamond 59 Sir Richard Broadbent 57 Group Chairman Chief Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Chairman of the Board Independent Director Corporate Governance Chairman of the Board and Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee David Booth 56 Alison Carnwath 58 Fulvio Conti 63 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Simon Fraser 51 Reuben Jeffery III 57 Sir Andrew Likierman 67 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chris Lucas 50 Dambisa Moyo 42 Sir Michael Rake 63 Group Finance Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman of the Board Audit Committee Sir John Sunderland 65 Key responsibilities Board of Directors Non-executive Director The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group: the executive Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations and the non-executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgment and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to deliver long-term value, providing overall strategic direction within an appropriate framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
Go online Further information on the responsibilities of the Board of Directors is available at www.
com annualreport10 Barclays PLC Annual Review 2010 www.
com annualreport10 11 Leadership and governance Executive Committee Bob Diamond Chris Lucas Robert Le Blanc Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Risk Officer Mark Harding Antony Jenkins Thomas L Kalaris Group General Counsel Chief Executive of Chief Executive of Global Retail Banking Barclays Wealth Jerry del Missier Maria Ramos Rich Ricci Co-Chief Executive of Group Chief Executive Co-Chief Executive Corporate and Investment of Absa of Corporate and Banking Investment Banking a Cathy Turner Key responsibilities Executive Committee Group Human Resources Director The Board delegates the responsibility for the day-to-day management of Barclays PLC the Company to the Chief Executive and he is responsible for ensuring that the business is operating effectively.
The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Committee, which supports him in this role.
The Executive Committee is supported by a number of management committees, including the Disclosure Committee, the Group Governance and Control Committee, the Group Operating Committee, the Group Risk Oversight Committee and the Group Brand and Reputation Committee.
Go online Further information on the responsibilities of the Executive Committee is available at www.
com annualreport10 Note a Cathy has announced her departure from Barclays and will be leaving on 31st March 2011.
