reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Membership of the Audit & Management Engagement policies: Committee Colin Buchan Chairman ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and Ian Barby standards: and Oliver Baring Anthony Lea considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager, the Gordon Sage Secretary and Administrator and reviewing the terms of the investment management agreement.
Attendance record Board Audit The Committee has also reviewed the whistleblowing policy that has Number of Meetings held 5 2 been put in place by the Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, can raise concerns about possible improprieties in Number of Meetings attended matters of financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect Anthony Lea 5 2 the Company.
Ian Barby 5 2 Colin Buchan 4 2 Oliver Baring 5 2 The Committee considers the risks associated with audit firms Gordon Sage 4 1 withdrawing from the market and the relationship with the Companys auditors.
The auditors appointment is reviewed each year and the audit partners change at least once every five years.
There are no Internal controls contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Company and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring that financial information Other audit service fees of 8,000 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & published or used within the business is reliable, and for regularly Young LLP, relate to their review of the half yearly financial statements monitoring compliance with regulations governing the operation of and advice on VAT matters.
The Committee considers whether the investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal skills and experience of the auditors make them a suitable supplier of control systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage the non audit service and whether there are safeguards in place to the Companys significant risks.
As part of that process, there are ensure that there is no threat to their objectivity and independence in procedures designed to capture and evaluate any failings or the conduct of the audit resulting from the provision of such services.
weaknesses and should a case be categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken On an annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of to remedy the failings.
The Board is not aware of any significant their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, providing failings or weaknesses in the year.
details of any other relationship with the Investment Manager.
The Board has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP are independent of the Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, Company and the Investment Manager.
compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations of the Investment Manager and BNYM.
There is a monitoring and The external auditors are invited to attend the Audit & Management reporting process to review these controls, which has been in place Engagement Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the carried out by the Investment Managers corporate audit department.
Committee without representatives of the Investment Manager being This accords with the guidance in the Turnbull Report.
The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review of As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the Remuneration internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis.
The Audit & Committee which will meet when necessary to determine the Management Engagement Committee also receives reports from the remuneration of the Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman and Investment Manager and BNYM on the internal controls of their Directors is reviewed against the fees paid to directors of other respective operations.
The Company does not have its own internal specialist investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable audit function, as all the administration is delegated to the Investment size, as well as taking account of any data published by the Manager.
This matter is kept under review.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Manager and BNYM.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2010 27
