In keeping with the provisions relating Meetings attended to the Directors Duties on Conflicts of Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Interest as set out in the Companies Act Hans-Jrg Rudloff 7 8 2 2 4 4 2006, the Directors continue to monitor Terence Eccles 7 8 4 5 2 2 4 4 the external directorships and other Tom Cross Brown 8 8 5 5 2 2 4 4 interests held by individual directors which Alan Gibbins 8 8 5 5 2 2 4 4 might be regarded as giving rise to actual Hugh Willis 8 8 or potential areas of conflict.
Directors are Mark Poole 6 8 expected to absent themselves from any Nick Williams 8 8 discussion relating to the areas or issues Alex Khein 7 8 which may give rise to a conflict or potential conflict and are aware of their continuing obligations to the Company in this respect.
the Company, regulatory and compliance Updates to changes in or developments matters, the approval of the preliminary to compliance and regulatory matters are Chairman and Chief Executive and the interim Financial Statements as also provided to Directors.
Periodically, well as corporate governance issues presentations are made to the Companys The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive and discussion of the resourcing and non-executive directors by portfolio are distinct and separate.
The Chairman, administrative issues of the Company.
managers on the strategy and performance Hans-Jrg Rudloff, has been Chairman of the funds they manage.
of the Company since July 2001 and is Attendance at the Board and Board responsible for leading the Board and committee meetings is set out in the On appointment to the Board, Company ensuring its effectiveness.
marketing literature and financial reports are made available to new Directors.
The role of Chief Executive is held by Given the skill and experience of the Any director who was unable to attend Hugh Willis, one of the co-founders of Companys non-executive directors, a Board meeting received appropriate the Company, who has been a director the Board believes it a matter best left to and timely information in advance of the and the Chief Executive since its inception the discretion of each individual Director meeting in order that their views could in 2001.
He is responsible for the executive to determine general training requirements, be taken into consideration.
management of the Company which except where such weaknesses have includes the formulation of the Companys been identified during the annual Board Information to the Board strategy for building shareholder value over performance evaluation.
The Companys the long term.
The Chairman, with the assistance of non-executive directors are also informed the Company Secretary, is responsible of relevant seminars provided by third Operation of the Board for ensuring that the Directors receive parties including those offered by the firms accurate, timely and clear information The Board held eight scheduled meetings professional advisers.
In addition to during the year with a further two the regular Board and Committee packs, meetings dedicated to strategy.
The Board All Directors have access to the advice Directors receive detailed monthly updates is collectively responsible for setting its own and services of the Company Secretary and on the financial performance of the Group, agenda.
At each Board meeting, the Chief may seek independent professional advice, its assets under management and portfolio Executive generally provides a review of the if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors also business and its performance as well as an receive copies of the minutes of principal overview of the financial position of the The appointment and removal of the Committee meetings and copies of Company.
The range of topics discussed Company Secretary is a matter for the Board proposed press releases relating to the during the period under review included, as a whole, following recommendation of financial performance of the Group for for example, the strategic development of the Nomination Committee.
review and comment before publication.
43 Directors Review Corporate Governance Report The AGM is due to be held on Strategic decisions relating to risk Board Committees 23 November 2010 with the Annual management and internal control are The Board formally delegates certain Report and Accounts and the notice embedded in the matters reserved for responsibilities to Committees by way of the AGM scheduled to be sent to consideration by the Board.
In overseeing of written terms of reference.
The three shareholders at least 20 working days these functions, the Board has delegated principal Committees are the Audit, prior to the date of the meeting.
some of these activities to the Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
Details of each principal conducts a review of the effectiveness Capital structure disclosure Committee, its membership and terms of of the procedures in place and seeks In line with the requirements of the Large reference are summarised on the following assurances from management that the and Medium-sized Companies and Groups pages together with details of significant system is fit for purpose.
Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 activities undertaken during the year.
SI 2008 410, disclosures on the share The Audit Committee and Board review, capital of the Group have been made Board performance at least annually, the effectiveness of the in the Directors Report on page 40.
An annual performance review was controls in place in accordance with the conducted evaluating the effectiveness of Turnbull Guidance 2005.
During the course Re-election the Board and its Committees.
The review of its review of the internal controls, the was questionnaire based and included On recommendation of the Nomination Board has not identified or been advised an evaluation of the performance of the Committee following the annual of any failings or weaknesses which have Board as a whole and also of that of the performance review, the Board confirms been determined as being significant.
Chairman which was led by the Senior that all Directors continue to perform Independent Director.
their duties effectively and demonstrate The management of BlueBay is responsible commitment to their respective roles.
for establishing and maintaining adequate Having completed the review, the Board Following changes in the UK Corporate internal control over financial reporting.
is confident that it continues to operate Governance Code all Directors will stand BlueBays financial reporting process has effectively and the Company benefits both for re-election at the 2010 AGM.
been designed to provide reasonable from having the objectiveness brought The Board recommends all Directors assurance regarding the reliability of the by each non-executive director and the for re-election.
financial reporting and preparation of leadership of the executive directors.
financial statements, including consolidated Going concern financial statements, for external purposes, Shareholder relations in accordance with IFRSs.
The Groups The Directors are satisfied that the internal controls over financial reporting During the year, the Chief Executive, Company has adequate resources to include policies and procedures that pertain the Chief Financial Officer and the continue in operational existence for to the maintenance of records that, in Chief Operating Officer met and made the foreseeable future and accordingly reasonable detail, accurately and fairly presentations to institutional investors, continue to adopt the going concern basis reflect transactions and dispositions of analysts and prospective shareholders.
in preparing the Financial Statements.
assets: provide reasonable assurances that Feedback from these meetings was given transactions are recorded as necessary to to the Board.
Internal control permit preparation of financial statements The Board has overall responsibility for the in accordance with IFRSs: and that receipts The Directors ensure that all appropriate Companys systems of internal control and and expenditures are being made only communications are released to the risk management and for reviewing the in accordance with authorisations of London Stock Exchange and Shareholders.
However, management and the Directors of The Company maintains a corporate responsibility for designing, operating and BlueBay.
Explanations of the Directors website www.
com which maintaining the framework of control and responsibilities for preparing the Financial contains a wide range of information mitigation is delegated to management.
Statements are given in the Directors on the Company, including regulatory Both the Board and management Responsibility Statement on page 61 announcements and published financial recognise that the framework mitigates and for the auditors responsibility for information and also details on the net the risk associated with the Companys reporting on those statements are given asset values of selected funds it manages, activities rather than eliminating it and in the Group Independent Auditors as well as contact details for both the can objectively provide reasonable but Report on page 64 and in the Company Companys registrars and for queries not absolute assurances of this.
Independent Auditors Report on page 95. submitted directly to the Company.
44 BlueBay Asset Management plc Further information on the risk appropriate European investment services management and internal control passport.
This passport derives from framework can be found in the Risk the pan-European regime established Management and Internal Control by the Markets in Financial Instruments Report on pages 58 to 60.
BlueBay considers the main areas in which Whistle-blowing measures it can apply its principles of marketplace In accordance with the FSA rules the good governance and ethical conduct Company has had a whistle-blowing policy to be: in place for a number of years.
This enables BlueBays own risk controlled staff to raise concerns about possible investment processes: improprieties relating to the Companys operations.
The Code requires the Audit due diligence and ongoing monitoring Committee to review the adequacy of the of third parties with which BlueBay Companys whistle-blowing arrangements.
conducts business: transparent dialogue with shareholders Regulation and investors in its products: BlueBay Asset Management plc is ongoing compliance with all relevant authorised and regulated by the FSA external legislative and regulatory in the UK.
It also has an EU investment requirements, including those relating services passport to provide cross-border to the fair treatment of investors: services into other EEA States.
It is ongoing compliance with the investment registered with the SEC in the United strategies and guidelines set out in the States as an investment adviser.
It is relevant fund prospectus or instructions the promoter, investment manager and of its segregated client mandates: and principal sales agent of BlueBay Funds, adherence to the relevant principles a SICAV which is subject to supervision and code of ethics relating to due care by the CSSF in Luxembourg.
towards all those who have an interest in the Group.
On 28 September 2009, BlueBay Asset Management Japan Limited was renamed The Board is committed to achieving BlueBay Asset Management International and building on the high standards Limited BBAMIL.
BBAMIL applied for of corporate governance adopted and obtained a Discretionary Investment following Listing.
Management license from the Financial Services Agency in Japan.
This new license For and on behalf of the Board enables BBAMILs Japanese branch to offer discretionary investment management James Brace services directly to appropriate Japanese Company Secretary institutional investors.
15 September 2010 The Company also provides financial services but does not have a physical presence in the various EU states but as these services are provided on a cross-border basis and the Company does not have a physical presence in an EU state other than the UK, it is only subject to the rules of these various EU states to a limited degree having obtained the 45 Directors Review Nomination Committee Report This Nomination Committee Report sets Membership out the role of the Nomination Committee, The Nomination Committee comprises its membership and what it considered the non-executive directors, Terence Eccles, during the year.
as Chairman, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Tom Cross Brown and Alan Gibbins.
Role of the Committee The purpose of the Nomination Committee Meetings is to consider, and make recommendations The Committee met twice during the to the Board concerning its composition, year with one additional meeting in the proposed appointees and whether any period to the publication of the Financial vacancies that may arise should be filled.
All Committee members attended each meeting.
The principal duties of the Nomination Committee include the following: Report of the Committees activities regularly reviewing the structure, size During the reporting period, the Committee and composition of the Board including fulfilled its duties as outlined below: its skills, knowledge and experience and undertook a review of the composition making recommendations to the Board and structure of the Board and its with regard to any changes: Committees, giving consideration to identifying, nominating and the skills and knowledge of the current recommending for the approval of the members and the time required by each Board, appropriate candidates to fill to fulfil their duties: Board vacancies as and when they arise: reviewed the provisions of the satisfying itself with regard to succession Companys succession planning strategy: planning that processes and plans are made recommendations to the Board in place with regard to both Board and for re-election of Directors at the 2010 senior management appointments: AGM: and recommending the re-election by reviewed the relevant sections of shareholders of any Director under the the Report and Accounts prior retirement and re-election provisions in to publication.
the Companys Articles of Association: making a statement in the Annual Support to the Committee Report about its activities: When required, the Committee receives making available its Terms of Reference information from senior management, upon request and display them on the and external advisers as necessary, to Companys website: and enable it to carry out its duties and ensuring that on appointment to the responsibilities effectively.
Board, non-executive directors receive formal written terms of appointment.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee has written Terms of Reference which are available for inspection on the Companys website.
The Terms are reviewed on an annual basis.
