Audit Committee Report This Audit Committee Report sets out The Committee has written Terms of Non-audit services and external the role of the Audit Committee, its Reference which are reviewed annually.
auditor independence membership and what it considered The Terms are available on the The Committee monitors the level of during the year.
non-audit work carried out by the auditors and seeks assurances from them that they Role of the Committee Meetings and their staff have no family, financial, The Board has delegated to the Committee The Committee met five times during the employment, investment or business responsibility for overseeing the financial financial year and invited the Chairman, relationship with the Company outside reporting and internal control of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial of the normal course of business.
Group and for maintaining an appropriate Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Furthermore, the Committee also seeks relationship with the Groups auditors.
Compliance Officer, other senior members assurances that the auditors themselves The main role of the Committee is to of staff and members of both the internal maintain suitable policies and processes encourage and safeguard the highest and external auditors to attend several of ensuring independence and monitoring standards of financial reporting integrity, the meetings.
The Committee met with compliance with the relevant regulatory risk management and internal control.
each of the internal and external auditors requirements on an annual basis.
In doing this the principal responsibilities without the presence of any executive of the Committee include: directors or other senior members of staff.
The Company operates on the basis whereby the provision of non-audit reviewing the form, content and integrity Report of the Committees activities services by the auditor is permissible where of the Group and Companys Financial no conflict of interest arises, where the Statements, including the statutory audit During the year the Audit Committee independence of the auditors is not likely of these Statements: discharged its responsibilities as set out in to be impinged by undertaking the work its Terms of Reference by undertaking the monitoring and reviewing the and the quality and objectivity of both following work: effectiveness of the external and internal the non-audit work and audit work will audit functions: meeting prior to the release of the not be compromised.
Groups financial information, including recommending to the Board the the annual and interim reports in order appointment, reappointment or removal A resolution will be proposed at the 2010 to review the content: thereby also of the internal and external auditors: AGM proposing the re-appointment of considering the suitability of the reviewing the adequacy and PwC for 2010 11 and also to allow the accounting policies and reviewing any effectiveness of the Groups internal Board to set their remuneration.
reporting issues or areas of judgement controls and risk management systems: applied in compiling the statements: The Committee is satisfied that the external ensuring that suitable procedures are reviewing the annual report disclosures auditors remain independent.
in place for employees to raise concerns on items relevant to the Committee: about improprieties in matters pertaining reviewing the internal audit plan for to any area of operation within the Support to the Committee the period: Company: and The Committee received information and receiving and reviewing internal audit reviewing whistle-blowing arrangements.
support from management during the reports, discussing their findings and year to enable it to carry out its duties and managements responses: responsibilities effectively.
The Committee Membership Chairman met regularly with the Chief reviewing the scope and nature of the The Committee is chaired by Alan Gibbins.
Financial Officer throughout the period.
audit with the auditors prior to the His biography, and that of the other commencement of the audit, as well members of the Committee, can be found as receiving the auditors engagement The Assistant Company Secretary is on page 38. letter and agreeing the relevant fees: Secretary to the Committee.
As at 30 June 2010, the Committee was evaluating the continued independence comprised solely of the independent of the external auditors with a view to non-executive directors, Alan Gibbins, recommending their re-appointment: Terence Eccles and Tom Cross Brown.
and reviewing the effectiveness of the The Board is satisfied that at least one internal control and risk management member of the Committee has recent procedures in accordance with the and relevant financial experience.
