Directors Review Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, In Financial Year 2010: the Committee Letter to shareholders from BlueBays key assets are its employees.
introduced a cap on annual total cash the Committee Chairman BlueBays objective is to operate an equivalent compensation as a percentage appropriately tailored remuneration of Total Fee Income for the Compensation policy which is linked to the attainment Year 2009.
For of a combination of individual, team and Compensation Year 2009: annual total corporate goals.
cash equivalent compensation was 49.99% which is within our target range of The Remuneration Committee the 40 50%.
Committee recognises the need to operate market competitive and financially Based on market data and best practice prudent remuneration arrangements.
The the Committee agreed to increase the Committee is responsible for all elements annual salary cap from 100,000 to of the remuneration of the executive 150,000.
This took effect from directors, including pension rights and 1 January 2010.
All executive directors compensation payments and the level and salaries were increased to the new cap structure of remuneration for the senior and therefore for the first six months of management of BlueBay.
It does this with the current financial year they received a view to aligning reward to performance salaries of 100,000 increasing to and Shareholder interests while promoting 150,000 for the last six months.
However, effective risk management consistent with for Compensation Year 2009, they received BlueBays financial situation and prospects.
salaries of 100,000 for the whole period.
The Committee has reviewed the market The Chairman of the Boards fees were positioning and effectiveness of the increased in May 2010 following the executive directors reward packages and Committees consideration of a report considered benchmarking data comparing prepared by PwC reward consultants.
their arrangements against other executive The report demonstrated that the directors operating in similar businesses.
Chairman of the Boards fees were The benchmarking data included considerably below market levels of compensation mix, retention value, comparator firms since they had not been probability analysis of different levels increased for a number of years.
Given his of pay out and volatility of pay out.
invaluable experience and outstanding The Committee has taken the pay and contribution to BlueBay, along with the benefits of the employees in BlueBay into market data, it was deemed appropriate account when deciding the remuneration and necessary to increase them at that for the Directors.
BlueBays compensation year and financial The bonus pool available for payment to year cover different periods and we the executive directors Management have therefore adopted a transparent Bonus Pool is wholly dependent on the approach to our reporting in order to profitability of BlueBay.
This Management clarify the remuneration arrangements.
Bonus Pool is determined as a % of The compensation year runs from the pre-tax profits before deduction 1 January to 31 December Compensation of the Management Bonus Pool.
Year 2009 and the financial year runs from 1 July to 30 June Financial Year 2010 or the current financial year.
