BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6r 5 the Company is required from 6 April 2010 to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued June 2008 the Combined Code.
Prior to this date as a closed-ended investment company incorporated in Guernsey the Company was not required to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code.
However the directors placed a high degree of importance on ensuring that high standards of corporate governance were maintained and resolved voluntarily to apply the Combined Code.
The Company is required to comply with the UK Governance Code with effect from 1 January 2011 as the UK Governance Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
A copy of the UK Governance Code is available for download from the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The Company is obliged, under Listing Rule 15.5.
1R 1, to comply with the Model Code.
The Board of directors are responsible for taking all proper and reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the Model Code by the directors.
Corporate Governance Principles The Company is committed to very high standards of corporate governance and, having reviewed the Combined Code, considers that it has established procedures to ensure that it complies with the Combined Code, subject to the exceptions explained below and its special circumstances as an offshore investment company.
The Board comprises five non-executive directors all of whom are independent for the purposes of the Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
12A except for Mr Dodd, who is a director of the Investment Manager of AllBlue Limited.
Mr Crowder & Mr Hooley notified the Board that they were both directors of Rothschild Bank International Limited and Rothschild Bank CI Limited during 2010.
Biographies of the directors appear on pages 8 and 9, demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board.
There is no Chief Executive position within the Company, which is not in accordance with provision A.
Being a self managed investment company the Company has no employees and therefore no requirement for a Chief Executive.
The Board meets at least four times a year to consider the business and affairs of the Company for the previous quarter.
Between these quarterly meetings the Board meets to consider specific matters of a transactional nature and there is regular contact with the Secretary.
During the year under review the Board met twelve times.
The directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the directors.
The directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
