BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued There is no separate nomination committee, which is not in accordance with provision A.
Given the small size of the Board, and the fact that all directors are non-executive and all except Mr Dodd are considered independent, it is felt that this function can be performed by the Board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the directors are not available for inspection as required by provision A.
4.4 of the Combined Code as the Board did not deem it necessary to formalise the terms and conditions of appointment.
The directors therefore do not have fixed time commitments but are expected to commit sufficient time to meet the needs of the Company on an ongoing basis.
The significant commitments of the Chairman are disclosed to the board who consider that he is able to commit sufficient time to the Company: they are not included in this report which does not comply with provision A.
During the year under review the Board met twelve times.
Of those twelve meetings, Messrs Crowder and Hooley attended twelve, Mr Le Prevost attended seven, Mr Meader attended nine and Mr Dodd attended seven.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hooley, Mr Meader and Mr Crowder.
Mr Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
In accordance with provision C. 3.1. of the Combined Code Mr Crowder, Chairman of the Board, sits on the three member Audit Committee as he was considered to be independent on appointment as Chairman of the Board.
The Board considers that excluding Mr Crowder from membership of the Audit Committee would not be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Audit Committee has regard to the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2008 and December 2010.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly reports and financial statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the auditors work and reviews prior to providing a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the auditor.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Secretarys compliance department and the external auditors.
