60 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors reports Corporate governance report Statement of compliance The composition of the board is such that, throughout the year, the The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance company did not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, and this report describes how the company has applied the main which requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of the board principles of good corporate governance as set out in section one should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to of the Combined Code issued in June 2008 the Combined Code.
The board however believes that the main principle It also identi es those provisions of section one of the Combined of board balance and independence set out in the Combined Code Code with which the company did not comply throughout the that the board should include a balance of executive and nonyear and explains why the board believes that, notwithstanding executive directors, and in particular independent non-executive its non-compliance, the companys practices are consistent with directors, such that no individual or small group of individuals can the principles of good corporate governance to which the relevant dominate the boards decision taking are met.
There are six executive directors as the board believes it to Shareholders registered on the companys New Zealand be important that executives with key responsibilities within the branch register should note that the principles of good corporate company should be directly involved in decisions on its strategy governance set out in the Combined Code may materially differ from and objectives.
This number of executive directors however makes the New Zealand Exchange Ltds corporate governance rules and the it dif cult to meet the requirement of provision A.
3.2 without the principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
board becoming so large as to be unwieldy.
An effective balance of A copy of the Combined Code is available on the website of power is nonetheless ensured by the fact that the board, excluding the Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk corporate the Chairman, is comprised of three separate categories of directors combinedcode.
the five independent non-executive directors: three executive directors, The Hon C W Cayzer and Messrs Cayzer-Colvin and Wyatt, The board who are involved in the affairs of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd Overall responsibility and operation Cayzer Trust, Caledonias largest shareholder: and the three other The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of the executive directors, Messrs Ingram, King and May.
It has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out In addition to the balance on the board brought by these those matters which it speci cally reserves for its own decision and categories, the Governance Committee, comprising solely those which are delegated to board committees and to executive independent non-executive directors, keeps under review corporate management.
The Schedule of Authorities is reviewed annually by governance and con ict of interest issues relating to the company the board.
and the board and has authority to recommend that any director All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board abstains from participating in any decision of the board, or any board meetings to enable them to discharge their duties and also have committee, where it believes that a con ict of interest could, or could unlimited access to senior management should further information be perceived to, arise.
Accordingly, whilst it recognises that it is not be required.
Presentations by senior executives of investee companies in strict compliance with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code, are also arranged periodically to enable the board, and the nonthe board believes this structure is appropriate in the context of a executive directors in particular, to gain a closer understanding company with a large controlling shareholder whose stability and of some of the companys signi cant investments.
support is fundamental to Caledonias business model as a long term, supportive investor, and is therefore in the best interests of all Appointment, induction and training shareholders.
All new directors appointed by the board are required to seek On 25 January 2010, the company announced that Mr Ingram election by shareholders at the next annual general meeting of the would be retiring as Chief Executive at the companys annual company following their appointment and subsequently all directors general meeting on 21 July 2010 and that he would be succeeded are required to retire by rotation at least every three years.
Any by Mr Wyatt from that date.
At that point, the composition of the non-executive director who has served on the board for over nine board will comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code as, years is subject to annual re-election.
On appointment, new directors excluding the Chairman, there will be five executive directors and are offered induction and training considered appropriate by the five independent non-executive directors.
board and subsequently as necessary.
The Company Secretary The identi cation of a new Chief Executive was led by the provides details of, and where requested arranges attendance at, Nomination Committee, which concluded that, in view of the number external courses to assist in directors professional development.
of strong internal candidates, a wider search was not necessary.
The choice of Mr Wyatt was based on his outstanding and sustained Board composition investment performance, his management qualities and commitment The biographies of the directors appear on pages 22 and 23. and his contribution to Caledonias board and those of investee The board currently comprises twelve directors.
Excluding the companies where he acts as the companys representative.
Chairman, six of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
The Governance Committee also considered Mr Wyatts The board considers all of the non-executive directors to proposed appointment before a formal recommendation was made be independent.
In assessing Mr Goblet dAlviellas independence, by the Nomination Committee to the board, given that both he and the board took account of his position as Chief Executive Of cer the Chairman are members of the Cayzer concert party and he is a of So na sa, which has a 4.7% shareholding in Caledonia.
Mr Goblet director of Cayzer Trust.
It rmly concluded that, in view of the dAlviellas position at So na has not given rise to any con icts proportion of independent non-executive directors on the board and of interest and his circumstances very much accord with the its own terms of reference in relation to directors con icts of interest, importance that Caledonia attaches to its executives having board these relationships were not a bar to Mr Wyatts candidacy and that he positions at investee companies.
was the most appropriate person for the position of Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman, Mr Loudon, and the Chief Executive, based purely on merit.
Caledonias larger shareholders were also Mr Ingram, are separated and clearly fide ned in the Schedule of consulted before Mr Wyatts appointment was con rmed.
Authorities adopted by the board.
The Chairman is primarily The board is therefore of the view that the principles of the responsible for the ef cient operation of the board and the Chief Combined Code on board balance will continue to be met following Executive for the implementation of the boards strategy and policies the change of Chief Executive.
and the management of the companys activities, other than those matters speci cally reserved to the board.
Directors reports Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 61 the approval of the terms for the termination of Mr Cartwrights Board committees employment and for the appointment of Mr King as his The board has delegated certain speci c areas of responsibility to the replacement as Finance Director following standing committees, the Terms of Reference of which are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
The the grant of options under the companys executive share option current membership of these committees is noted on page 65. scheme the approval of amendments to the terms of Mr Mays service Nomination Committee contract.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Loudon, is responsible for the regular review of the structure, size and composition including Further information on the companys executive remuneration policy the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and for giving and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in the consideration to succession planning for executive directors and, if directors remuneration report set out on pages 52 to 59. requested by the board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, Audit Committee candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise and for The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, is responsible for making recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the keeping under review the leadership needs of the company, both company and any announcements relating to the companys financial executive and non-executive.
It reviews the time required of the performance and for reviewing any signi cant financial reporting non-executive directors and ensures that they receive formal letters judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the companys systems of appointment setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of internal control and risk management procedures and considers of time commitment, committee service and involvement outside annually whether an internal audit function is required.
Committee believes that, in the context of the companys business as The Nomination Committee met four times during the year and an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are the principle business undertaken included: the integrity of the application of the companys policy for the a formal review of the size and composition of the board following valuation of its investments, particularly those which are unquoted, the 2009 annual board performance evaluation and consideration and the robustness of the groups internal controls.
The valuations of the contribution of the non-executive director retiring at the of the companys unquoted investments are subject to formal six 2009 annual general meeting, prior to giving a recommendation monthly reviews by an internal Challenge Committee, independent for his re-election of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings are also attended by the auditors.
The Audit Committee then selects a conduct of a search for an additional independent non-executive number of valuations for review.
A formal report on the effectiveness director and the recommendation to the board that Mr Gregson be of the groups internal controls and risk management procedures is appointed to this position prepared annually for the board by the companys Risk Manager.
It is the recommendation to the board that Mr King be appointed to the Audit Committees current opinion that, in view of these control the position of Finance Director processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia and the succession planning for the position of Chief Executive and the relatively straightforward control considerations in relation to other recommendation to the board that Mr Wyatt be appointed to this investments, a separate internal audit function is not necessary.
It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor the independence and objectivity of the external auditors Remuneration Committee and the effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Davies, is responsible implement policy on the engagement of the external auditors for the review of executive remuneration policy.
Within that policy, to supply non-audit services.
In this regard, the Audit Committee the Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration has approved a schedule of speci c non-audit activities which may packages of executive directors and reviews those of other senior not be undertaken by the external auditors, within the broad executive management.
It is also responsible for the design of, principles that the external auditors should not audit their own work, and grant of awards under, the companys share incentive schemes should not make management decisions on behalf of the company, and for the determination of the policy for and scope of pension should not be put into the role of advocate for the company and that arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and no mutuality of interest should be created between the company compensation commitments for executive directors and, if and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee believes that, by requested by the board, for other senior executives.
applying these principles, the objectivity and independence of the The Remuneration Committee met seven times during the year.
auditors is maintained, notwithstanding that non-audit work may The matters considered by the Remuneration Committee included: be undertaken.
On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, the approval of the 2009 directors remuneration report re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for the companys formal whistle the determination of bonuses for executive directors and review blowing arrangements, whereby members of staff may raise any of bonuses for other senior executives for the year ended issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct 31 March 2010 of the companys business and whereby any such concerns are the determination of basic salaries for executive directors and properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
review of salaries for other senior executives for the year The Combined Code recommends that at least one member commencing 1 April 2010 of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee considers that Mr Allen-Jones has the approval of amendments to the rules of the 1998 executive such financial experience, given his extensive involvement in financial share option scheme and the deferred bonus plan to enable the transactions as a corporate lawyer and that he is a member of the early exercise of certain share options granted in May 2004 and Financial Reporting Review Panel and was previously a member of the grant of vested restricted shares following the waiver by the Financial Reporting Council.
participants in the deferred bonus plan of existing compulsory and voluntary deferred share awards 62 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Directors reports Corporate governance report Attendance at meetings The Audit Committee met four times during the year, and three The following table identi es the number of board and committee of the meetings included a discussion with the auditors without any meetings held in the year to 31 March 2010 and the attendance record of the executive directors present.
During the year, the business of individual directors.
undertaken by the Audit Committee included: Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee a review of the performance of the external auditors, Deloitte LLP, and the level of fees charged for their services Number of meetings 1 in the year 11 4 7 4 3 consideration of the scope of the 2010 annual audit and agreement Attendance by with the external auditors of the key areas of focus J R H Loudon 11 4 scrutiny of valuations of unquoted investments selected by the T C W Ingram 11 Audit Committee in accordance with its adopted criteria 2 J H Cartwright 7 3 S A King 4 consideration of the reports from the external auditors concerning The Hon C W Cayzer 10 their audit of the 2009 annual financial statements of the company and their review of the 2009 half-year report J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10 J M May 11 consideration of the financial disclosures contained in the 2009 W P Wyatt 11 annual and half-year reports to shareholders and financial reporting C M Allen-Jones 11 4 7 4 3 issues for the 2010 annual report M E T Davies 11 4 7 3 the review of reports from the companys Risk Manager on the R Goblet dAlviella 8 4 effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management 4 C H Gregson 7 3 1 procedures for the year ended 31 March 2010, and in particular in D G F Thompson 11 4 7 4 3 relation to liquidity risk within investee companies 1.
Mr Cartwright resigned as a director on 8 December 2009, but attended all board meetings consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal audit function held prior to that date.
Mr King was appointed a director on 9 December 2009 and attended all board meetings held a review of the independence and objectivity of the external after that date.
Mr Gregson was appointed a director on 16 September 2009 and attended all board meetings auditors, including their system of quality controls and the level held on or after that date.
He was appointed a member of the Audit and Remuneration and nature of non-audit services provided by them Committees on 17 December 2009 and a member of the Governance and Nomination Committees on 19 January 2010.
He attended all meetings, if any, of these committees an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself following his appointments to them.
including a review of its role and responsibilities Board performance evaluation assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its performance for approval as an investment trust.
and that of its committees and individual directors.
For the year ended 31 March 2010, the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its Governance Committee committees was led by the Chairman and was conducted by inviting The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps under individual board members to complete a questionnaire regarding the review corporate governance issues relating to the company and is operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole and of its responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each committees, the responses from which were collated by the Company director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to Secretary and discussed.
The evaluation of the performance of the exercise independence of judgement free from relationships or Chairman was led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director circumstances which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his and involved individual private discussions with all other members of judgement.
The Governance Committee also reviews con ict or the board and, in particular, members of the Governance Committee potential con ict situations relating to directors which may require on his performance, the results of which were then considered at the prior authorisation of the board under the Companies Act 2006 a meeting of the non-executive directors, without the Chairman the Act and makes recommendations to the board as to whether present.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chief Executive was such con ict or potential con ict situations should be authorised and, undertaken by the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
The if so, whether any conditions, such as duration or scope of the performance of the non-executive directors was reviewed by the authority, should be attached.
The Governance Committee reviews Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Nonannually all authorisations previously granted by the board to ensure Executive Director, with the Senior Independent Non-Executive that they remain appropriate.
If the Governance Committee believes Director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal.
As part that a director may be subject to a con ict of interest which may of this review, non-executive directors were invited to complete prejudice his ability to exercise independence of judgement, it may self-assessment questionnaires in relation to their own effectiveness.
make such recommendations to the board as it may think t, The performance of the executive directors, which included further including that the director abstains from participating in any decision consideration of that of the Chief Executive, was undertaken by of the board or any of its committees on the matter concerned.
the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual executive salary The Governance Committee met three times during the year, review process.
principally to review and approve the corporate governance report The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its for the year ended 31 March 2009, to review potential con ict committees for the year ended 31 March 2010 were presented in a situations noti ed by directors in accordance with the Act and to report to the board.
The key conclusions from the evaluation process make recommendations to the board in relation thereto and to were that the board could bene t from periodic external views on consider the Nomination Committees proposed recommendation macro-economic issues and that more resource should be committed that Mr Wyatt be appointed for the companys next Chief Executive, to the identi cation of potential investment opportunities in sectors in in the context of his membership of the Cayzer concert party.
which the company does not currently have exposure.
Directors reports Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 63 The Governance Committee also formally considered whether the Key risks identi ed are regularly monitored at company level by in uence of the Cayzer Concert Party on Caledonias board was in members of the Executive or Investment Management Committees, the general interest of the non-Concert Party shareholders and who have clear mandates to assess and report on risk in their concluded that it was.
From these assessments, an The Nomination Committee reviewed the size, structure and ongoing risk pro le of the companys activities is updated half-yearly composition of the board in the light of the report to the board.
and reviewed by the board.
The board is also provided quarterly with a list of the key risk issues identi ed by executive management at Directors con icts of interest that particular time.
All of the companys signi cant investments are Each director has a duty under the Act to avoid a situation where he reviewed at least annually by the board and the smaller portfolio has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest which con icts, or may holdings reviewed at least annually by the Investment Management possibly con ict, with the companys interests.
The Risk Manager reports to the Audit Committee on allows directors of public companies to authorise con icts and speci c risk areas as requested.
potential con icts where the articles of association contain a Speci c control procedures are in place to ensure that the provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the articles to contain company continually monitors and complies with the requirements other provisions for dealing with directors con icts of interest to for investment trust status.
The board receives monthly compliance avoid a breach of duty.
reports evidencing that the company is meeting the various tests for There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply investment trust status and also con rming that the investment when the directors decide whether to authorise a con ict or potential activities undertaken by executive management are within the policy con ict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those limits set by the board.
A Compliance Committee, comprising the who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to take Company Secretary Chairman, the Finance Director, three associate the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, the directors and the Group Financial Controller Risk Manager, meets directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be weekly to review the companys ongoing compliance with its most likely to promote the success of the company.
The directors are investment trust status and to monitor and approve all investment able to impose time limits or conditions when giving authorisations activity from an investment trust compliance perspective.
if they think this is appropriate.
Financial performance is continuously measured by comparing The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements total shareholder returns and net asset value movements against the of the Act in relation to directors con icts of interest.
Each director is FTSE All-Share index.
Performance statistics are reported monthly to required to declare any potential con ict situations which may relate the board.
Income and expenses are monitored by the board against to him and his connected persons.
If necessary, these are then an approved annual budget and regularly updated forecasts.
reviewed by the Governance Committee with each member taking Valuations of unquoted investments are subject to a rigorous six no part in the consideration of his own declaration, which then puts monthly review process undertaken by a Challenge Committee forward recommendations to the board as to whether these independent of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions are also attended by the auditors, and a selection of valuations are to such authority should be attached.
The board then considers and then reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Where appropriate, approves these recommendations, again with each director taking adjustments are made to the valuations of unquoted investments no part in relation to his own con ict situations.
Each board meeting includes a standing agenda item on Since the year end, the directors have concluded their annual con icts of interest to ensure that directors disclose any new review of the operation and effectiveness of the groups system potential con ict situations.
These are then reviewed, if necessary of internal control.
No material control failings or weaknesses also by the Governance Committee, and authorised by the board as were identi ed, although it was agreed that the format of risk appropriate.
A register of directors con icts of interest is maintained management reports to the board should be reviewed.
by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the Governance Committee.
Relations with shareholders The company welcomes dialogue with institutional shareholders in Internal control order to achieve a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Chief The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of risk Executive and the Finance Director seek meetings with larger management and internal control, although the review of risk institutional shareholders and private client stockbrokers after the management procedures and internal controls is delegated to the announcement of year end and half-year results.
The groups system of internal control is designed Independent Non-Executive Director attends some of these to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve business meetings.
The annual general meeting also provides a forum for objectives.
It is recognised that such a system can only provide shareholders to meet the directors, both formally and informally.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material The Chairmen of all of the boards committees will be available misstatement or loss.
The board con rms that the system of internal to answer questions at the annual general meeting of the company.
control operated by the group accords with the Turnbull Guidance 2005 and has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Major business risks facing group companies and key investments are identi ed and assessed by local management and procedures are agreed to address these as appropriate.
The boards of these companies review business risk and controls regularly to ensure the system of risk management operates effectively.
Caledonias investment executives then con rm, through Caledonias Risk Manager, to the Audit Committee that the system of risk management is operating effectively for these group companies and key investments.
