The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 17 Report of the Directors continued sliding scale.
If the Companys share price decreases over Investment activity, gearing and performance the year in question by between 10.00% and 14.99%, the An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms performance fee element will be reduced by 20%: a fall of of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in between 15.00% and 19.99% in the share price will result underperformance against the Companys benchmark.
The in a reduction of 30% of the performance fee: and a Board monitors investment performance at each Board decline of 20.00% or more in the share price will create meeting and regularly reviews the level of its gearing.
a reduction of 40% in the performance fee.
This Tax and regulatory arrangement is symmetrical and, if the share price increases A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 over the period, the same thresholds and increases to the could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in performance fee will apply.
This means that the total fee capital gains realised within the portfolio being subject to paid may exceed the 0.55% cap by up to 40% of the corporation tax.
A breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could performance fee.
result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a The absolute cap of total fees payable in any one year is breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal therefore 0.63% of average net assets.
proceedings, or financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also ensure compliance with the listing These fee arrangements maintain the Companys position of rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
having one of the lowest base management fees and one of the lowest total expense ratios in the AIC UK Growth & The Manager has contracted to provide investment, Income Sector.
company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal The Companys net asset value total return for the three years control reports produced by the Manager on a quarterly from 1 July 2007 to 30 June 2010 was -18.3% compared to basis, which confirm regulatory compliance.
the net asset value total return of the benchmark over the same period of -21.5%.
As the Company outperformed its Operational benchmark in excess of the 15% hurdle rate, a performance Disruption to, or failure of, the Managers accounting, fee of 54,000 has been earned.
As the Companys share dealing or payment systems or custody records could price over the year to 30 June 2010 increased by more than prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the 20%, the performance fee was adjusted by 40%, giving a Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed total performance fee for the year of 75,000. to the operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not provide the required level of service.
g Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by and has put in place a schedule of investment limits and the Manager and its other suppliers, and the key elements restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment designed to provide effective internal control, are explained objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as further in the internal controls section on page 21. practicable.
The principal risks which have been identified and Further details of the Companys exposure to market risk the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these are as follows: including market price risk, currency risk and interest Portfolio and market price rate risk, liquidity risk, and credit and counterparty risk Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities and how they are managed are contained in Note 16 that are quoted on recognised markets, share prices may on pages 41 to 45. move rapidly.
The companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in Corporate Governance Statement the market value of the Companys portfolio would have a Applicable corporate governance codes an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance reviews the portfolio each month and mitigates this risk of the Companys affairs.
6 of the UKLA Listing through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
Rules requires all listed companies to disclose how they have 18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Internal audit function 2008 Combined Code.
As an investment trust, most of the As the Company delegates to third parties its day-to-day Companys day-to-day responsibilities are delegated to third operations and has no employees, the Board has parties, the Company has no employees and the directors are determined that there is no requirement for an internal all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions of the 2008 audit function.
The directors annually review whether a Combined Code are directly applicable to the Company.
function equivalent to an internal audit is needed and will continue to monitor its systems of internal controls in order The Financial Reporting Council the FRC confirmed in to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
February 2007 that it remained the view of the FRC that by following the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment c Directors Companies produced by the Association of Investment Board composition The Articles of Association provide that the total number Companies the AIC Guide, boards of investment of directors shall not be less than three nor more than companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to seven: the Board consists of four non-executive directors.
the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
The biographies of the directors holding office at the The AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, as date of this report, which are set out on page 13, explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code, as well as professional experience relevant to their positions as setting out additional principles and recommendations on directors.
All the current directors served on the Board issues that are of specific relevance to investment trusts.
The Board of The City of London Investment Trust plc believes Directors appointment, retirement and rotation that reporting against the AIC Code by reference to the AIC The Board may appoint directors to the Board and any Guide will provide the most appropriate information to director so appointed must stand for election by the shareholders and has therefore followed the principles and shareholders at the AGM following appointment, in recommendations set out in the AIC Code.
Copies of the AIC accordance with the Articles of Association.
Code and the AIC Guide can be found at www.
co. uk All directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
In May 2010 the FRC published the new UK Corporate The Articles of Association require one-third or the number Governance Code, which is effective for accounting periods nearest to one-third of the directors to retire by rotation at commencing on or after 29 June 2010 the New Code.
The each AGM, while the AIC Code requires each director to AIC has stated that it will update its code in due course.
retire at intervals of not more than three years.
However, b Statement of compliance the New Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The directors believe to retire annually.
All the directors will therefore retire and, that during the year under review they have complied with being eligible, have all stated that they will offer the provisions of the AIC Code, insofar as they apply to the themselves for re-election.
Companys business, and with the provisions of the 2008 Under the Articles of Association, shareholders may remove Combined Code except as noted below.
a director before the end of his term by passing an The role of chief executive ordinary resolution at a meeting.
Since all directors are non-executive and day-to-day Board independence management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the The directors reviewed their independence and confirm Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive.
that all directors, with the exception of Mr Brief, remain Executive directors remuneration wholly independent of Henderson.
Mr Brief is a director of As the Board has no executive directors, it is not required another investment trust managed by the Investment to comply with the principles of the Combined Code in Manager and is not considered to be independent under respect of executive directors remuneration and does not the Listing Rules.
All directors have a wide range of other have a Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are interests and are not dependent on the Company itself.
detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19 Report of the Directors continued Two members of the current Board, Mr fide Zoete and Sir appropriate, but only if the articles of association contain a Keith Stuart, have served on the Board for more than nine provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the articles of years.
The Board believes that length of service does not association to contain other provisions for dealing with diminish the contribution from a director: conversely a directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
directors experience and knowledge of the Company can There are two safe harbours either the situation cannot be a positive benefit to the Board and retaining directors reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of with sufficient experience of both the Company and the interest or the matter has been authorised in advance by markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Companys new Articles of Association, serving directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
which were adopted by shareholders on 16 October 2008, The directors have reviewed the balance of ages and give the directors the relevant authority required to deal experience of all of the Board members and confirm that with conflicts of interest.
Mr fide Zoete and Sir Keith Stuart continue to provide a Each of the directors has provided a statement of all valuable and beneficial contribution to the Company and conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if that their experience complements the abilities of the other any, applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of directors.
The Board has therefore concluded that they interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
The directors have also all undertaken to notify the There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new the year in which a director of the Company is or was potential conflicts of interest that would need to be materially interested and which is or was significant in approved by the Board and added to the Register, which is relation to the Companys business.
reviewed annually by the Board.
Directors remuneration It has also been agreed that directors will advise the A report on directors remuneration is on page 26.
Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment and new directors will be Directors interests in shares asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within The interests of the current directors in the ordinary shares the conflicts of interest provisions of the Act in advance of of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial joining the Board.
The Chairman will then determine year are shown in the table below.
whether the relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential conflict of interest and should therefore be Ordinary shares of 25p 30 June 2010 1 July 2009 considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no Beneficial: interest in the matter being considered will be able to Simon fide Zoete 191,190 189,607 participate in the Board approval process.
In deciding David Brief 9,985 4,000 whether to approve a conflict of interest, directors will also Richard Hextall 4,000 4,000 Sir Keith Stuart 211,036 209,480 act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success in taking such a Since the year end, the following directors have become decision.
The Board can impose limits or conditions when interested in further shares: Sir Keith Stuart 378 shares: giving authorisation if the directors consider this to be Mr fide Zoete 42 shares.
Directors conflicts of interest The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation of Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, conflicts have operated effectively since they were or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or introduced on 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
With that its procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 the have been followed by all the directors.
Act has allowed directors of public companies to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, where 20 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued Directors professional development nature and scope of the external audit and the findings When a new director is appointed he or she is offered a therefrom, the terms of appointment of the auditors training seminar which is held by the Investment Manager.
together with their remuneration, performance, Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key independence and objectivity, as well as any non-audit information on the Companys policies, regulatory and services provided by the auditors, and the half year report.
statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes It meets with representatives of the Investment Manager affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate in relevant accounting records and management information training and industry seminars.
maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Company has agreed to participate in an investment trust restitution action Directors indemnity to reclaim VAT paid on management fees between 1996 and Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in 2000, as well as compound interest on VAT reclaims received respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of and claimed from 1990 to 2007.
The action is being led by Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK  LLP, who have provided services to legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs the Company during the year in relation to this case.
For the which they may incur relating to the defence of any year under review the Company has consequently paid to proceedings brought against them arising out of their  LLP a total of 59,000 plus VAT positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or for non-audit services.
judgment is given in their favour by the Court.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with the effectiveness d The Board of the audit provided by  LLP.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees The Audit Committee has reviewed the audit appointment in During the year eight Board meetings were held to deal the past and does not consider it necessary to repeat this at with the important aspects of the Companys affairs.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved every five years and this is the second year that the current for its decision, categorised under various headings, which partner has been in place.
include strategy and management, structure and capital,  LLP have indicated their willingness financial reporting and controls, internal controls, to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to confirm the communications, Board and committee memberships and appointment of  LLP as auditors to corporate governance.
the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine The Board has two Committees: the Audit Committee and their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
The terms of reference for Nominations Committee these Committees are available on the Companys website.
All directors are members of the Nominations Committee.
The Board has not formed a Management Engagement The Chairman of the Board acts as Chairman of the Committee as it remains the role of the Board as a whole Committee but would not chair the Committee when the with the exception of Mr Brief to keep under review the Chairmans successor was being considered.
The Committee terms of the management agreement between the is responsible for reviewing Board succession planning, the Company and the Investment Manager.
performance of the Board as a whole and the Board Audit Committee Committees, and the appointment of new directors.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee The Committee also reviews and recommends to the Board members were Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Mr Hextall and the directors seeking re-election.
Recommendation is not Mr Brief.
The Audit Committee comprises two independent automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each members and at least one member who has competence in directors performance.
In accordance with the Combined accounting.
Code any director serving for longer than six years would The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and is be subject to particularly rigorous assessment of his her responsible for the review of the annual accounts, the contribution.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21 Report of the Directors continued When considering succession planning, the Committee meeting it was agreed that the Chairman continues to bears in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and promote effective leadership and each of the directors experience existing on the Board and will recommend contributes valuable experience and skills to the Board.
when the recruitment of additional non-executive directors f Internal controls is required.
Once a decision is made to recruit additional The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating directors to the Board, each director is invited to submit and managing any major risks faced by the Company.
The nominations and these are considered in accordance with process is subject to regular review by the Board and accords the Boards agreed procedures.
The Committee may also with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the use external agencies as and when the requirement to Combined Code published in September 1999 the Turnbull recruit an additional Board member becomes necessary.
The process has been in place since 2 March The Committee recommended to the Board the 2000 and up to the date of approval of this annual report.
appointment of Mr Simon Barratt, who will be joining the Board on1 October 2010.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee met in June 2010 to carry out its annual However, such a system is designed to manage rather than review of the Board, its composition and size and its eliminate risks of failure to achieve the Companys business Committees.
The results of the performance evaluation are objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute contained in e below.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board Board attendance has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of Attendance at the Board and Committees meetings held internal controls for the year ended 30 June 2010.
During the during the financial year are shown below.
All directors course of its review of internal controls, the Board has not usually attend the Annual General Meeting.
identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses that have been determined as significant.
Audit Nominations Board Committee Committee The Board, assisted by the Investment Manager, undertook a No of meetings 8 3 2 full review of the Companys business risks and these have been Simon fide Zoete 8 2 analysed and recorded in a risk map which is reviewed regularly.
David Brief 7 3 2 1 Anita Frew 6 1 The Investment Manager has established an internal control Richard Hextall 7 3 2 framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on Sir Keith Stuart 8 3 2 the effectiveness of the internal controls operated on behalf of 1 Resigned from the Board on 31 March 2010 its clients.
The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed by the Investment Managers compliance and risk department e Performance evaluation on a continuing basis.
The Board receives each quarter from the The Company Investment Manager a formal report which details the steps The performance of the Company is considered in detail at taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not each Board meeting.
directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager, and which The Board reports the details of any known internal control failures.
The The work of the Board as a whole and of the Board Board receives each year from the Investment Manager a report Committees was reviewed by the Nominations Committee on its internal controls which includes a report from the in June 2010 and no areas of concern were identified.
Investment Managers auditors on the control policies and procedures in operation.
Steps will continue to be taken to Individual directors embed the system of internal control and risk management into The Chairman reviews each individual directors the operation and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
contribution on an annual basis.
The Nominations Committee meets without the Chairman present in order to review the performance of the Chairman.
At the 2010 22 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued g Accountability and relationship with the Investment The Board reviews investment performance at each Board Manager meeting and a formal review of the Investment Manager is The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the conducted annually.
As part of the annual review in July 2010 Financial Statements is set out on page 25, the Independent the directors discussed the quality and continuity of the Auditors Report on page 49 and the Statement of Going personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, with Concern on page 15. particular reference to performance and results achieved to date.
In addition, they reviewed other services provided by the The Board has delegated contractually to external third parties, Investment Manager to the Company, such as accounting, including the Investment Manager, the management of the company secretarial and administration services, and the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the Investment Managers promotion of investment and savings safeguarding of the assets, the day to day accounting, products linked to the Companys shares.
The Board noted the company secretarial and administration requirements and Investment Managers resources and experience in managing registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into and administering investment trust companies.
after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the services offered, including the control systems in As a result of their annual review, it is the opinion of the operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interests of The Board receives and considers regular reports from the the Companys shareholders as a whole.
Investment Manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
In addition, the Chairman i Share capital and shareholders attends meetings of all the chairmen of the investment trust Share capital companies managed by the Investment Manager: these The Companys equity and non-equity share capital meetings provide a forum to discuss industry matters and the comprises: Chairman reports on them to the Board.
i ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each.
The voting The Investment Manager takes decisions as to the purchase rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for and sale of individual investments.
The Investment Manager every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there also ensures that all directors receive, in a timely manner, all were 208,519,868 ordinary shares in issue.
During the year, relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
100,000 shares representing 0.05% of the number of Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board shares in issue at the beginning of the year were issued for meeting enabling the directors to probe further on matters of total proceeds excluding stamp duty and commissions of concern.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for 211,000.
At 30 June 2010 the number of ordinary shares decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure in issue with voting rights was 208,619,868. adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to Since 30 June 2010 and up to the date of this report a take independent professional advice at the expense of the further 3,300,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a Company within certain parameters.
The directors have access total consideration of 8,526,000.
The number of shares in to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary issue at the date of this report is 211,919,868. through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and ii cumulative first preference stock.
The voting rights of the that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, costock held.
At 1 July 2009 and at 30 June 2010 there was operative and open environment.
301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
h Continued appointment of the Investment Manager iii non-cumulative second preference stock.
Second preference The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of stockholders have no rights to attend and vote at general investment management and other services to the Company on meetings except on the winding-up of the Company or if an ongoing basis.
The principal contents of the agreement with dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2009 and at 30 June 2010 the Investment Manager are contained on pages 16 and 17. there was 507,202 of second preference stock in issue.
The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23 Report of the Directors continued iv non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock.
The voting rights The Board considers that shareholders should be encouraged of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one vote per to attend and participate in the Annual General Meeting, 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2009 and at 30 June 2010 which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and which all there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman of the Board, the Further details on the first and second preference stock and Chairman of the Audit Committee and all other directors at the preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred the meeting.
The Portfolio Manager, as the representative of Stock are contained in note 15 on page 40. the Investment Manager, makes a presentation to There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shareholders.
A summary of the proxy votes received on the share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry resolutions proposed is displayed at the meeting.
It is the specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Financial Statements and Notice of Annual General Meeting be issued Substantial share interests to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the days notice of the meeting.
Shareholders wishing to lodge Company, at 31 August 2010, are set out below.
questions in advance of the meeting are invited to do so by Shareholder % of voting rights writing to the Company Secretary at the Registered Office Legal & General 3.8% address given on the inside back cover.
The Board is aware that, as at 31 August 2010, 17.1% of the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts issued ordinary shares were held on behalf of participants in follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings the Halifax Share Dealing products, run by Halifax Share between the Investment Manager and shareholders are Dealing Limited HSDL, part of Lloyds Banking Group.
accordance with the arrangements made between HSDL and New Zealand listing Henderson, the participants in the Halifax Share Dealing It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate products are given the opportunity to instruct the nominee Governance may materially differ from the New Zealand company of HSDL to exercise the voting rights appertaining Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
HSDL has undertaken to instruct its nominee company to exercise the voting rights of any shares held j Corporate Responsibility SEE statement through the Halifax Share Dealing products that have not Responsible investment been exercised by the individual participants in them.
It will Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover do so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put at all its work on corporate governance and corporate general meetings of the Company or by withholding votes responsibility or social, environmental and ethical SEE issues on such resolutions pro rata to the aggregate voting in the companies in which it invest on its clients' behalf, instructions for each resolution received from those across all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding participants who have chosen to exercise their voting rights.
signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of Relations with shareholders the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational Shareholder relations are given high priority by the Board.
The framework for incorporating environmental, social and prime medium by which the Company communicates with its corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream shareholders is through the Half Year Report and Annual investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Report and Financial Statements which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate activities and their results.
This information is supplemented responsibility can affect their business performance, both by the daily calculation and publication at the London and directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on New Zealand Stock Exchanges of the net asset value of the social responsibility and the environment is therefore Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
considered as part of the investment risk decision.
