Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate Governance 29 The board recognises and understands the pivotal role Regulatory compliance and internal control: of good governance not only at board level but throughout Ensuring adequate financial resources: the organisation.
It has been closely monitoring the governance debates following the credit crisis and the Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: economic downturn.
Board appointments and removals: and The board believes that effective management and monitoring Communication with shareholders.
of risk goes to the core strategic objectives of the group.
A significant proportion of board time in the last financial year Matters which are outside the scope of the schedule was focused entirely on risk, including discussions of group of matters reserved to the board are decided by risk appetite, the appropriate framework for control of risk and executive management.
the identification and impact of key risks facing the group, whether external macro economic and political factors or key The board also adopts an annual schedule of rolling agenda business risks.
Recognising the importance of allocating items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration sufficient time for the oversight of risk, it is anticipated that a and reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and board risk committee will take responsibility for this key area in regulatory cycle.
Agenda items include consideration of the the next financial year providing oversight and advice to the annual budget and its approval, review of the Internal Capital board regarding group risk appetite, group risk profile and Adequacy Assessment Process and regular updates from the alignment to risk appetite, the risk management framework chief executive and finance director on the performance and and culture and alignment of reward structures to risk appetite.
results of the group and the individual operating businesses.
In addition, senior executives will update the board on specific Compliance matters, including legal, compliance, risk and internal audit.
The directors are responsible for ensuring the highest During the year, the board has, in particular, focused on: standards of corporate governance within the group.
The budget for the 2010 2011 financial year: The Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Funding and liquidity, in particular the FSA new liquidity Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined regime: Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should be Capital management: directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Close Brothers Group plcs bond issue: The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the The implications of the Turner and Walker Reviews: Combined Code, how they have applied its principles and The 2010 update on the board evaluation process carried whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the out in 2009: and accounting year.
Where the provisions have not been complied Governance and risk management.
with companies must provide an explanation for this.
In addition, the divisional heads of the Banking, Asset It is the boards view that the Companys governance regime Management and Securities divisions updated the board on has been fully compliant for the year end 31 July 2010 with the performance and strategic developments and initiatives in their Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the Combined respective areas.
Code, except that at least half the board of directors, excluding the chairman, were not independent.
The board intends to Composition, balance and independence appoint a further independent non-executive director to At the date of this report, the board comprises eight members: address this.
the chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors.
A copy of the Combined Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
The directors contribute a range of complementary skills, knowledge and experience.
Details of the individual directors The Board and their biographies are set out on pages 8 and 9.
Role and responsibilities The board is collectively responsible for ensuring the success The board is of the opinion that each non-executive director of the Company.
It sets the groups strategic objectives and acts in an independent and objective manner and therefore, provides leadership for the group as a whole.
The board is the primary decision making body for all matters considered under the Combined Code, is regarded as independent, with significant to the group as a whole.
A formal schedule of the exception of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who is a director of a matters is submitted to the board for its decision, which substantial shareholder.
The boards opinion was determined enables the board and executive management to operate by considering for each non-executive director whether he is within a clear governance framework.
The schedule of matters independent in character and judgement, how he conducts requiring board approval currently includes: himself in board meetings and board committee meetings, whether he has any interests which may give rise to an actual Setting and monitoring strategy: or perceived conflict of interest and whether he acts in the best interests of the Company and all its shareholders at all times.
Risk management: Each non-executive director is required to confirm at least U09509 pp27 pp49.
indd 29 29 9 10 20:50:37 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate Governance continued 30 annually, whether any circumstances exist which could impair Letters of appointment are available for inspection by his independence.
shareholders at each AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
The structure of the board ensures that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision-making process.
Biographies for all the directors are set out on page 9.
Chairman and chief executive Powers of directors The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate and The directors are responsible for the management of the there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two Company.
They may exercise all powers of the Company, roles.
In accordance with the Combined Code, there is a subject to any directions given by special resolution and the written statement of the division of responsibilities which has articles of association.
The directors have been authorised to been reviewed and approved by the board.
The chairman is allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market purchases Strone Macpherson.
His other significant commitments are set of the Companys ordinary shares by virtue of resolutions out in his biography on page 9.
The board is satisfied that his passed at the Companys 2009 AGM.
significant commitments do not restrict him from carrying out Meetings and attendance his duties effectively.
The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During the year As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for ended 31 July 2010 there were ten scheduled board meetings leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement and and two ad hoc board meetings called to deal with specific contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities time critical business matters.
There were also additional include setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the board meetings convened to deal with operational issues.
directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the promotion of effective decision making.
The The directors receive detailed and comprehensive papers in chairman is also charged with ensuring that the directors advance of each board meeting.
The agenda is set by the continually update their skills and knowledge and that the chairman in consultation with the chief executive, the finance performance of the board, its committees and the individual director and the company secretary.
In addition, each director directors are evaluated on an annual basis.
is given the opportunity to review the agenda and propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a groups business.
His other responsibilities include proposing substantial time in advance in order to ensure the availability of and developing strategic objectives for the group, managing each of the directors.
In the event that directors are unable to the groups risk exposures in line with board policies, attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating papers in the normal manner and have the opportunity to relay appropriate and effective communication with shareholders their comments in advance of the meeting, as well as follow up and regulatory bodies.
with the chairman if necessary.
The same process applies in respect of the various board committees.
Senior independent director The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
The number of board meetings held during the year and the In addition to the existing channels for shareholder attendance by the directors is set out in the table below: communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns they may have with the senior independent director.
Number of board meetings 2009 2010 Scheduled Ad-hoc 10 2 Appointment of directors Executive director: The appointment of directors is governed by the Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other Stephen Hodges 10 2 applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected Jonathan Howell 10 2 by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board Preben Prebensen 10 2 of directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of Non-executive director: association.
The articles of association may be amended by Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 2 special resolution of the shareholders.
Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 10 2 Ray Greenshields 9 2 In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code all directors will be subject to re-election at the AGM.
The Strone Macpherson 10 2 board will only recommend to shareholders that executive and Douglas Paterson 10 2 non-executive directors be proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the performance of the individual directors.
Board evaluation Following the performance evaluations, the board will be The board conducts a formal and rigorous performance recommending that all directors be re-elected by shareholders evaluation each year to assess its own performance and that and confirms that each director continues to be effective and of its committees and individual directors.
The process is led demonstrates commitment to their role.
by the chairman, who is supported by the company secretary.
indd 30 29 9 10 20:50:37 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 31 In 2009 Boardroom Review carried out an independent Membership of the committees is made up of independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the board and in 2010 was non-executive directors only.
reappointed to consider the boards progress following the 2009 evaluation.
Boardroom Review provides no other At the scheduled board meetings, the chairman of each services to the board and or the group.
committee provides the board with a summary of key issues considered at the committee meetings.
The comprehensive nature of the 2010 review fulfilled both the Combined Code and new UK Corporate Governance Codes Board governance structure requirement for the evaluation of the board, its committees and the individual directors and took the form of confidential The Board interviews between the external assessor and each director plus a review of relevant papers.
Results from the evaluation were collated by the assessor and considered by the chairman Nomination and and chief executive.
Feedback was subsequently presented to Audit Remuneration Governance Committee Committee and discussed by the board in July 2010.
Committee The 2010 update review highlighted achievements on the Audit Committee development of the boards strategic processes and the The membership of the Audit Committee during the year strengthening of the governance structure.
The report noted ended 31 July 2010, together with a record of attendance at the introduction of strategic away days, increased informal meetings which members were eligible to attend, is set out board time and site visits to the board calendar.
It below: recommended the introduction of a central training programme to coordinate director training.
Number of meetings scheduled during year 5 In addition to the independent board evaluation process, the Member Attendance senior independent director led a separate performance review Douglas Paterson chairman 5 in respect of the chairman which involved a review with the Bruce Carnegie-Brown 5 non-executive directors excluding the chairman and separate Ray Greenshields 5 consultation with the chief executive.
The senior independent director subsequently provided feedback to the chairman on The committee meetings were scheduled to coincide with the his appraisal.
financial reporting and audit cycles of the group.
The committee has throughout the year monitored the integrity of Induction, information and ongoing development the financial statements through a review of the Interim and On appointment to the board, each director receives a Annual Reports.
comprehensive induction tailored to the experience and needs of the individual.
Meetings are arranged with other directors, The committee is chaired by Douglas Paterson who as a key senior personnel and external advisers.
New directors are senior partner in the banking and capital markets division of also available to meet major shareholders on request.
 until 2001 and as a non-executive director of Goldman Sachs International Bank has, in the view The directors are kept informed of relevant regulatory and of the board, the appropriate level of recent and relevant corporate governance developments as they arise by senior financial experience as required by the Combined Code.
managers or through the Companys external advisers.
During the year ended 31 July 2010, the directors received briefings The company secretary, or her nominee, acts as secretary to on the Walker Review and the Financial and Reporting Council the committee.
The executive directors and heads of group Review of the Combined Code.
finance, risk and compliance attend by invitation.
The chairman of the board and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin also attend committee In addition, all directors have direct access to the services and meetings regularly by invitation.
The external auditors and the advice of the company secretary who is responsible for head of internal audit attend all meetings and the committee ensuring that the board procedures and applicable rules and meets privately with them at each meeting.
Directors are able to take independent outside professional advice to assist with the performance of their duties at the Companys expense.
Board Committees The board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination and Governance Committee.
Each committee is responsible for the review and oversight of activities within its defined terms of reference and copies of each committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
indd 31 29 9 10 20:50:38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate Governance continued 32 The role of the committee includes: required.
The committee balances these benefits with the potential impact on auditor independence and believes that Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the the agreed policy provides a more relevant measure of auditor Company and the form and content of published independence than monetary ratios or guidelines followed by announcements: some investors.
Examples of non-audit services awarded to the external auditors in the year to 31 July 2010 include Reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments, taxation fees and a review of hedge accounting models and judgements and disclosures in financial reports: documentation within the Banking division.
A breakdown of Reviewing the adequacy of the groups system of risk the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and management, regulatory compliance and internal control: non-audit work is included in note 6 on page 67.
Reviewing the groups whistleblowing procedures: Having given consideration to the extra work undertaken by Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the group the auditors, and after review with the audit partner and the internal audit function: executive directors, the committee is satisfied as to the independence of the external auditors.
Making recommendations to the board as to the appointment or reappointment and remuneration of the External auditor audit, tax and other non-audit fees external auditors, including assessing independence and Audit fees 1.2 million objectivity, approving their terms of engagement and Tax fees 0.3 million reviewing their findings and performance and overseeing Other non-audit fees 0.3 million the relationship with them: and Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The committee reports to the board on all these issues, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and makes Remuneration Committee recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year ended 31 July 2010, together with a record of attendance During the year, the committee particularly focused on the at meetings which members were eligible to attend, is set out following areas: below: The groups annual and half year reporting including Number of meetings scheduled during the year 7 significant reporting judgements made by management: Member Attendance Review of the groups tax policy: Bruce Carnegie-Brown chairman 7 Ray Greenshields 6 Consideration of the hedge accounting implications of the more diversified funding mix in the Banking division Douglas Paterson 7 following the credit crisis: The chairman of the board, chief executive officer, group head Review of the groups foreign exchange policy: and of human resources and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin attend the Review of the groups hedging policy for employee share meetings by invitation.
Further details of the role and work of plans.
the committee are set out in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 38 to 48.
As in previous years, the committee conducted a review of the service provided by the groups external auditors.
The results of this review were shared with the external auditors to provide a basis for its recommendation as to their reappointment.
Non-audit services policy and auditors independence The groups auditors are Deloitte LLP.
The committee assesses annually the independence of the auditors as well as their qualifications, expertise and resources and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In assessing their independence, the committee considers the level of non-audit work carried out by the auditors and has agreed a clear policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services to ensure any such engagement does not impair their objectivity and independence.
The committee must pre approve any work awarded over 100,000.
The policy reflects the committees view that there are benefits to the auditors carrying out non-audit work where it is closely related to the audit and or where a detailed understanding of the group is U09509 pp27 pp49.
indd 32 29 9 10 20:50:38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 33 Nomination and Governance Committee appropriate controls are put in place to manage those risks.
The membership of the Nomination and Governance Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate Committee during the year ended 31 July 2010, together with the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only a record of attendance at meetings which members were provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against eligible to attend, is set out below: material misstatement or loss.
Number of meetings scheduled during year 4 Risk management is the process of identifying the principal Member Attendance business risks to the group achieving its strategic objectives, establishing appropriate controls to manage those risks and Strone Macpherson chairman 4 checking that appropriate monitoring and reporting systems Bruce Carnegie-Brown 3 are in place.
The groups risk management process balances Ray Greenshields 4 cost against risk within the constraints of the groups risk Douglas Paterson 4 appetite and is consistent with the prudent management required of a large financial organisation.
The chief executive and Jamie Cayzer-Colvin attend by invitation.
The risk management framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence: The role of the committee includes: Risk management: Primary responsibility for strategy, Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: performance and risk management lies with the board, the chief executive and the heads of each division and Reviewing proposed nominations and governance operating business: procedures and to make recommendations thereon to the board.
Before an appointment is made, the skills, Risk oversight: Risk management oversight is provided by knowledge and experience required for a particular the group risk and compliance committee GRCC and appointment are evaluated and external advisers may be the head of group risk working with counterparts in the used to facilitate the search for suitable candidates: divisions and operating businesses and with group compliance: and Regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of the board: Independent assurance: Independent assurance on the effectiveness of the risk management systems is provided Considering the leadership needs of the group and by group internal audit reporting to the Audit Committee.
succession planning: and Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
There are clear reporting lines and defined areas of responsibility at board, divisional and business level.
This During the year the committee met to consider the recruitment structure is designed to check, amongst other things, that key and appointment of a new non-executive director, the issues and developments are escalated on a timely basis.
The reappointments of existing non-executive directors and the groups risk management framework requires that all of the impact of the Walker Review on board structure and the groups divisions and operating businesses establish a annual reappointment of directors.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks that they face.
Conflicts of Interest The shareholders approved new articles of association at the The composition and duties of the Audit Committee are AGM held on 18 November 2009, which include provisions described on pages 31 and 32.
The GRCC is a committee giving the directors authority to approve conflicts of interest established by the chief executive to assist him in the group and potential conflicts of interest as permitted under the wide management of risk.
Its membership is made up of the Companies Act 2006. groups executive committee members and the heads of group risk, compliance and internal audit.
It meets monthly A procedure has been established whereby actual and and is responsible for: potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed, and appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of The groups risk management strategy, approach and any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to policy: authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by nonRecommending for board approval the groups risk conflicted directors and in making such a decision the appetite: directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The The approval of group wide policies in respect of risk board believes this procedure operated effectively throughout management and regulatory compliance including limits of the year.
authority: and Reviewing regular reports on significant risk management, Internal Control and Risk Management regulatory compliance and internal control issues and for The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of monitoring their analysis and resolution.
risk management, regulatory compliance and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to ensure that the key risks, both internal and external faced by the Company and its subsidiaries in the conduct of their business are identified and evaluated so that U09509 pp27 pp49.
indd 33 29 9 10 20:50:38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate Governance continued 34 The system of internal control is supported by a well of the board committees attend the AGM, and all other established organisational structure within the group, with clear directors are expected to attend the meeting.
levels of responsibility and delegation of authority and a strong control culture embedded in the management of each During the year the group demonstrated its commitment to operating company.
Each operating company in the group electronic forms of communication by upgrading its corporate regularly undertakes a review of, and reports to its board on, website.
The latest financial reports, news releases, these controls and procedures, having due regard to its key presentation materials and web casts of financial presentations risks.
Where necessary, steps are taken to improve internal are available on the IR section of the Close Brothers Group control and risk management further, following these reviews.
The principal risks and uncertainties shown on pages 22 to 26 Substantial Shareholdings of the Business Review describe these key risks and explains The Company has been notified as at 15 September 2010 how they are controlled.
under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following significant interests in the voting rights of the Group internal audit regularly reviews the effectiveness of Company.
controls and procedures established by the Company and its operating businesses to manage key risks.
The head of group Ordinary Voting internal audit reports functionally to the Audit Committee shares rights through the chairman of that committee and to the finance millions % director who provides support and guidance to the function Caledonia Investments 19.6 13.56 including the professional development of the head of group Prudential 11.6 8.03 internal audit.
The head of group internal audit has unfettered Aberdeen Asset Management 10.7 7.40 access to the board.
Artemis Investment Management 9.3 6.42 Lloyds Banking Group 7.8 5.40 An annual plan is presented to the Audit Committee each year, which focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the groups Schroders 7.1 4.90 business.
The committee regularly reviews the scope and Aviva 6.2 4.27 results of internal audit work across the group and the Legal & General 5.7 3.95 implementation of recommendations.
It also assesses the scope of the work to cover all key activities of the group and Substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights concentrates on higher risk areas.
from those of other shareholders.
The Company has complied with the Turnbull Committees Going Concern guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing The groups business activities, together with the factors likely the groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is to affect its future development and performance and its regularly reviewed by the board, and which has been in place summarised financial position are set out in the Chairmans for the year ended 31 July 2010 and up to the date of the and Chief Executives Statement and Business Review on approval of these financial statements.
pages 2 to 5 and 11 to 21 respectively.
The principal risks and uncertainties the group currently faces are described on Investor Relations pages 22 to 26 of the Business Review along with the ways The group has an extensive investor relations IR programme the group seeks to manage those risks.
which aims to keep shareholders and financial analysts informed about the groups performance throughout the year The group has a strong, proven and conservative business and to ensure they have appropriate access to the groups model and a range of diversified financial services businesses.
The IR team also regularly provides the board It has traded profitably through the recent credit crisis as well with feedback from investor meetings, relevant analyst as in previous economic downturns.
research and updates on share price performance.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable In addition to announcements and reporting around the expectation that the Company and the group have adequate financial calendar, the IR programme includes meetings, resources to continue in operational existence for the telephone discussions and investor presentations notably foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the this year a briefing by the management team of the Securities going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
division designed to provide shareholders with greater detail on the businesses within the group.
The chief executive and Statement of Directors Responsibilities finance director meet with current and prospective The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report shareholders on a regular basis in the UK, continental Europe and the financial statements.
The directors are required to and the US.
This year over 75 meetings were held.
prepare accounts for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The chairman and the senior independent director are adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the available to meet with major shareholders from time to time, International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation, and particularly in relation to corporate governance and have chosen to prepare company financial statements in remuneration.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted questions to the board at the AGM, either in person or by Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
submitting written questions in advance.
indd 34 29 9 10 20:50:38 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 35 In the case of IFRS accounts, IAS 1 requires that financial The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: statements present fairly for each financial year the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS requires the faithful representation of the effects of and UK GAAP, give a true and fair view of the assets, transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with liabilities, financial position and profit of the consolidated the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, group undertakings as well as the Company: and income and expenses set out in the International Accounting The management reports, which are incorporated by Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and reference into the Report of the Directors, include a fair Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all review of the development and performance of the circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by business and the position of the consolidated group compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also undertakings as well as the Company, together with a required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Properly select and apply accounting policies: By order of the board Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Elizabeth Lee understandable information: Company Secretary Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 28 September 2010 specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance: and Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the group to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the group or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether all applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and that the Company financial statements and the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
