report oF tHe audit CoMMittee the audit Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose main main aCtivities of the auDit Committee role is to encourage and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, the audit Committee met four times during 2010, and in February 2011 financial reporting, risk management and internal controls.
to consider this financial report and all Committee members attended the maximum number of meetings they were scheduled to attend.
the Committees responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which include all matters indicated by the disclosure and the Committee also meets separately with the vice-president risk transparency rules and the Code, which are available for inspection and business processes and with the external auditors, without on the Companys website and include: management being present, after the end of most formal meetings.
reviewing the form and content of interim and full year accounts in addition, the Committee Chairman has preparatory meetings and results announcements of the Company, interim management with the external auditors and, where necessary, with Group senior statements and any other formal announcements relating to the management, prior to committee meetings.
Companys financial performance, including monitoring their integrity at their meetings, the audit Committee considers an agenda of and reviewing significant reporting issues and judgements contained items including the minutes of the last meeting and a list of action therein, and recommending them to the board for approval: points from previous meetings, to ensure that these are progressed.
reviewing the Groups systems of risk management and internal in addition, a number of specific items were reviewed: financial control: at their February and july meetings, the audit Committee monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys reviewed respectively the preliminary and interim announcements internal audit function and considering regular reports from internal of results and the draft reports and accounts for the financial audit on internal financial controls and risk management: year and the half year.
on these occasions the Committee considering the appointment, re-appointment or changing of reviewed reports from the external auditors, identifying any external auditors, overseeing the process for their selection and accounting or judgemental items requiring its attention including making recommendations to the board on their appointment which approval of the processes, assumptions and outcomes to assess will be put to the shareholders for their approval at a General Meeting fair values and impairments and commenting on risk management and to approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: and control matters.
agreeing the nature and scope of the external auditors work and a quarterly report on internal audit from the vice-president considering their reports on the Companys accounts, reports to risk and business processes was presented at each meeting shareholders and their evaluation of the systems of internal and the findings discussed.
during the year the plan for the financial control and risk management: and ensuing years work was considered.
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, the external auditors also presented their audit plans at the objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account professional december and april meetings covering scope of work to be done and regulatory requirements.
and during the year there was a detailed review of their management letter covering the auditors findings in respect of 2009.
Composition of the auDit Committee the audit Committee is also presented with an update on any the audit Committee comprises Messrs j. a. biles, j. vogelsang material litigation in which the Group may be involved.
and dr K. rajagopal who are all independent non-executive directors.
at each meeting an update is presented of any new accounting their biographical details are set out on page 45 and their remuneration developments and requirements and any changes in corporate is shown on page 42. the Chairman of the audit Committee since governance arrangements that may affect the Group.
16 august 2007 has been Mr j. a. biles, who was appointed a director on that date, following a recommendation from the nomination on a regular basis, the Committee reviewed papers on liquidity, Committee.
the audit Committee Chairman is considered to have banking arrangements and the appropriateness of the going recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr biles is a chartered concern assumption for preparation of the financial statements.
accountant, who served as a plc finance director FKi plc from 1998 the Committees activities supported the directors in their to 2004 and Chubb security plc from 1991 to 1997 and is currently assessment of the going concern position of the Group, which also the Chairman of the audit Committees of Charter international plc is set out on page 25.
2005 and Hermes Fund Managers limited 2005. the Company during 2010 a new position of vice-president risk and business secretary is secretary to the audit Committee.
the Chairman, Chief processes was created with responsibility for developing the executive, Finance director, senior internal auditor, Group Financial Groups risk management framework and enhancing the Groups Controller, vice-president risk and business processes, Group risk assessment and mitigation activities.
this action demonstrates treasurer, Head of tax, other senior finance personnel and external the boards continued commitment to maintain sound risk auditors attend audit Committee meetings as appropriate by invitation.
management and internal control systems.
36 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts during 2010 the audit Committee also: internal auDit internal audit independently reviews the risk and control processes assessed and confirmed the independence of the external auditors: operated by management.
it carries out independent audits in having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit, the performance accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the and capabilities of the external auditors and having taken into audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
this plan account their tenure of office from 2002 and whether the takes account of the risk management framework surrounding position should be formally tendered, recommended to the major business risks in each operation and provides a high degree board that the auditors be re-appointed and agreed their fees: of financial and geographical coverage.
where appropriate, either approved the Groups accounting policies: because of language, geographical remoteness or where technical expertise is required, the internal audit department engages third approved the management representations to the external auditors: party specialists to conduct internal audits.
internal audit reports reviewed arrangements for reporting and investigating fraud and include recommendations to improve internal controls together with employee concerns: normal internal audit activity and operation agreed managerial action plans to resolve issues raised.
internal of the Groups open door policy uncovered a small number of audit follows up the implementation of recommendations and potentially fraudulent incidents which were all fully investigated.
reports progress to senior management and the audit Committee.
none had any material financial impact on the Group and, where the Committee noted that the 2010 internal audit programme necessary, systems and procedures were amended to minimise was successfully completed with sites representing approximately the risk of recurrence: 70% of Group revenue being the subject of internal audit reports.
reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls and risk at the same time there was a declining trend in the requirement management processes and recommended certain changes: for corrective actions.
the effectiveness of the internal audit function reviewed the terms of reference for the audit Committee: and is reviewed and discussed on an annual basis with the vice president risk and business processes and senior internal auditor.
assessed the Committees own effectiveness.
overview inDepenDenCe of eXternal auDitors as a result of its work during the year, the audit Committee has the audit Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference independence of the audit is not compromised.
in this respect, the and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
audit Committee reviewed: on behalf of the audit Committee: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory auditor, who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with the professional rules, has not held office for more than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors as specified below.
J. a. Biles the policy in respect of services provided by the external auditors audit Committee Chairman is as follows: 24 February 2011 audit-related services.
the external auditors are invited to provide services where their position as auditors renders them best placed to undertake the work.
this includes reporting and certification connected with borrowings, shareholders and circulars, regulatory requirements and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
in the case of other services no contracts in excess of 20,000 in value can be awarded to the external auditors without prior approval from the Chairman of the audit Committee.
tax and general consulting work.
in general and where conflicts arise, the work is not awarded to the external auditors and is put out to tender.
there are no contractual restrictions on who the audit Committee can choose as external auditors.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 37
