report oF tHe noMination CoMMittee role of the nomination Committee main aCtivities of the nomination Committee the nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the board whose Mr a. M. thomson chairs the nomination Committee which also comprises purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, Messrs j. a. biles, j. vogelsang, s. C. Harris and dr K. rajagopal.
dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
the full terms in 2010 the Committee discussed performance management and of reference of the nomination Committee are provided on the assessment for the Chief executive and other senior executives and Companys website.
considered and authorised the potential conflicts of interest which might arise where a director has fiduciary responsibilities in respect Composition of the nomination Committee the nomination Committee comprises all the independent non-executive of other organisations.
no inappropriate conflicts of interests exist.
the Committee also assigned the Chairman to review and agree with directors together with the Chairman and Chief executive.
the quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must the Chief executive the Groups objectives for the forthcoming year.
be an independent non-executive director.
in november 2010 the nomination Committee, with both executive the Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, although the directors in attendance, carried out a formal evaluation of the boards performance, and reviewed the boards size and composition, the Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the Company.
only members frequency of and process for board and committee meetings, and best practice for the handling of a number of board issues including the of the Committee have the right to attend the Committee meetings.
However, other individuals and external advisers may be invited to review of strategy, succession planning, sustainability, the implications for bodycote of the uK bribery act and risk management.
attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
on behalf of the Committee: the Company secretary is secretary to the Committee.
the Committee has the authority to seek any information that is required from any officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
in connection with its duties, the Committee is authorised by the board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense as it considers necessary, including requests for information from, or commissioning investigations by a. m. thomson external advisers.
Chairman of the nomination Committee 24 February 2011 38 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts
