Corporate GovernanCe stateMent ComplianCe with 2008 ComBineD CoDe investments: in respect of the financial year 2010 bodycotes obligation under the equity and bank financing: disclosure and transparency rules is to prepare a corporate governance internal control and risk management: statement with reference to the Combined Code on Corporate Corporate governance: Governance published by the uK Financial reporting Council FrC in june 2008 the 2008 Code.
Key external and internal appointments: and employee share incentives and the uK pension scheme.
in respect of each subsequent financial year such statement will need to reference the uK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FrC in advance of board meetings directors are supplied with up-to-date in june 2010 the new Code.
information about the trading performance of each operating in respect of the year ended 31 december 2010 bodycote has complied division and sub-division, the Groups overall financial position and with the provisions of the 2008 Code, save that the board has taken its achievement against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
they are the view that generally it is the responsibility of the Chief executive and also supplied with the latest available information on safety, health the Finance director to manage relationships with institutional investors.
and environmental and risk management issues and details of the the Chairman also meets institutional investors to discuss overall safety and health performance of the Group, and each division, strategy, governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
in terms of severity and frequency rates for accidents at work.
only where these more usual channels of communication have failed where required, a director may seek independent professional advice would the board expect the senior independent or other non-executive the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company.
all directors have directors to become involved, notwithstanding that both the 2008 access to the Company secretary and they may also address specific Code and the new Code specify attendance of the senior independent issues to the senior independent non-executive director.
in accordance non-executive director at meetings with major shareholders.
regular with the articles of association, all newly appointed directors and feedback by the Companys advisers on investor meetings and any who have not stood for re-election at the two previous annual results presentations is circulated to all directors.
General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves for re-election.
apart from this distinct area, bodycote was in compliance with the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for fixed provisions of the 2008 Code throughout 2010. terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual operation of the CoDe agreement.
a statement of the directors responsibilities is set out taken together with the audit Committee report, the nomination on page 44. the board also operates three committees.
these are Committee report and the board report on remuneration presented the nomination Committee, the remuneration Committee and the on pages 36 to 43, this statement explains how bodycote has applied audit Committee.
the principles of good corporate governance set out in the 2008 Code.
so that the necessary actions can be taken promptly, a finance leaDership committee, comprising the Chairman or failing him any other nonthe board is responsible to shareholders for good corporate governance, executive director, the Chief executive and the Finance director setting the Companys strategic objectives, values and standards and operates between the dates of scheduled board meetings and is ensuring the necessary resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
authorised to make decisions, within limits defined by the board, in the board met on eleven occasions during 2010, including a specific respect of certain finance, treasury, tax or investment matters.
meeting to review and update the Companys long-term strategy.
inDepenDenCe of non-eXeCutive DireCtors the board of directors comprises six members, of whom four are the board considers that Messrs j. a. biles, j. vogelsang and non-executive directors and two are executive directors led by the dr K. rajagopal are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
Companys part-time non-executive Chairman, Mr a. M. thomson, Commitment who also chairs the nomination Committee.
the Chief executive is attendance of directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Mr s. C. Harris and the senior independent non-executive director board and its Committees is shown in the table below: is Mr j. vogelsang, who also chairs the remuneration Committee.
the audit Committee is chaired by Mr j. a. biles.
brief biographical audit remuneration nomination details of all directors are given on page 45.
Full board Committee Committee Committee the board makes visits to uK and overseas facilities.
Certain defined director eligible to attend & attended powers and issues are reserved for the board to decide, inter alia: a. M. thomson 11 7 1 strategy: s. C. Harris 11 1 approval of financial statements and circulars: j. vogelsang 11 4 7 1 Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: j. a. biles 11 4 7 1 K. rajagopal 11 4 7 1 annual budgets: d. F. landless 11 directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning: all directors attended the maximum number of scheduled board, audit, remuneration and nomination Committee meetings that they policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and were scheduled to attend.
in addition by invitation Messrs thomson, environment, donations: Harris and landless attended the whole or part of the meetings of Committees terms of reference: the audit, nomination and remuneration Committees.
board and committee chairmen and membership: 34 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts performanCe evaluation the Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget which is closely during the year, the board conducted an evaluation of its own monitored and updated quarterly.
the Groups authority matrix clearly performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
sets out authority limits for those with delegated responsibility and the process involved the completion by each director of a confidential specifies what can only be decided with central approval.
questionnaire in a form consistent with previous years, and including the internal audit department monitors the Groups internal financial amongst other areas: remit and objectives, board composition, control system and its reviews are conducted on the basis of plans training and resources, governance, stakeholder engagement, approved by the audit Committee, to which internal audit reports board procedures and overall effectiveness.
are submitted on a regular basis.
the Company secretary analysed the completed questionnaires and each division provides assurance on specified financial and non-financial summarised the findings in a report for the Chairman.
the Chairman controls and these are reported twice-yearly to the audit Committee.
subsequently conducted one-to-one discussions with each of the board during 2010, in compliance with provision C. 2.1, management members after which he reported back to the whole board on the performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual evaluation process.
the responses to the questionnaires demonstrated report.
Managements assessment, which has been reviewed by a high degree of consistency and the evaluation process affirmed the the audit Committee and the board, included a review of all Group boards confidence in the Groups system of corporate governance.
and operational risks by means of workshops and interviews and arising from the exercise, the board has concluded that an enhanced the risks identified both before and after mitigating actions were focus should be placed on divisional strategies, overall performance assessed using conventional impact and likelihood scoring, and further evaluation, sustainability and risk management.
assessment, monitoring and review work was scheduled for 2011.
Messrs s. C. Harris and d. F. landless were appraised internally in the Groups risk management framework is progressively being january and February 2011. the remuneration and audit Committees embedded throughout the Group.
the principal risks and uncertainties reviewed their own performance in december 2010 and the nomination affecting the Group are shown in the Finance directors report on Committee reviewed its performance in november 2010. page 26. no significant previously unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the necessary actions have been or are led by the senior independent non-executive director, the directors have carried out an evaluation of the Chairmans performance in being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified as part of the reviews.
november 2010. proposals for re-eleCtion investor relations the board has decided, in line with the new Code, that all directors the Chief executive and Finance director regularly talk with and meet will retire annually and, other than in the case of any director who has institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has decided to stand down from the board, will offer themselves for enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the re-election at the annual General Meeting.
the business of the annual General Meeting comprises a. M. thomson, s. C. Harris, d. F. landless, j. vogelsang, j. a. biles a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of shareholders and dr K. rajagopal will stand for re-election and the board attending.
in addition, since 1998, internet users have been able to recommends to shareholders that they re-elect all the directors.
view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price via the bodycote website at www.
users of the website can access the performance of each director was evaluated as indicated above news of all recent announcements and copies of results presentations and the board confirms in respect of each that their performance and can enrol to hear live presentations.
on a regular basis, bodycotes continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public relations commitment to his respective role.
consultants provide the directors with opinion surveys from analysts internal Control & risk management and investing institutions following visits and meetings with the Chief the board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control executive and Finance director.
as stated on page 34 the Chairman and and for reviewing its effectiveness.
such a system is designed to senior independent non-executive director are available to discuss manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business any issues not resolved by the Chief executive and Finance director.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance on specific issues, such as the introduction of long term incentive and against material misstatement or loss.
the board has applied principle share matching schemes in 2006 and changes thereto in 2009 and C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, 2010, and in 2008 with the return of cash, the Company will seek the evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks views of leading investors.
arising out of bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
the board by order of the board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with internal Control: Guidance for directors on the Combined Code published in september 1999 and with revised guidance on internal control published october 2005. the boards springwood Court monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
it is based springwood Close tytherington business park principally on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly J. r. grime Macclesfield secretary Cheshire remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
the audit Committee assists the board in discharging these review responsibilities.
24 February 2011 sK10 2xF business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 35
