Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 corporate GoVernance continued Nomination Committee the nomination committee is chaired by the chairman, richard rose, and comprises richard rose and two other non-executive Directors, lord Bilimoria and andrew cripps.
It has defined terms of reference, which are published on the Groups website.
charles Wilson, chief executive, attends by invitation.
During the year, richard Farr and Karen Jones were invited to attend one meeting.
the nomination committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of additional Directors and for reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board and the membership of Board committees.
During the year, in accordance with the plans for the orderly succession for appointments to the Board, the nomination committee recommended the appointment of an executive Director, Mark aylwin and a non-executive Director, richard Farr.
prior to recommending each appointment, the candidates were interviewed by committee members and other Directors.
Remuneration Committee chaired by lord Bilimoria, the senior Independent non-executive Director, the remuneration committee comprised from the 28 March 2009 until the 27 May 2009 lord Bilimoria and andrew cripps and since 27 May 2009 lord Bilimoria, andrew cripps and, following his appointment as a non-executive Director, richard Farr.
the remuneration committee has defined terms of reference, which are published on the Groups website.
the remuneration committee is responsible for setting the remuneration and other terms of employment of the companys executive officers and management and determining and reviewing any share incentive plans.
the remuneration report, which includes details of the remuneration committees role, Directors remuneration and pension entitlements, together with information on service contracts is set out on pages 17 to 22.
Details of Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the company are shown in the Directors report on page 24.
Re-election of Directors all Directors are required by the companys articles of association to submit themselves to shareholders for re-election at the first annual General Meeting after their appointment and thereafter by rotation at least once every three years.
those directors offering themselves for re-election are included in the Directors report.
Relations with shareholders In fulfilling their responsibilities, the Directors believe that they govern the Group in the best interests of the shareholders, whilst having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders in the Group including customers, employees and suppliers.
the code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
the executive Directors have regular and ongoing communication with major shareholders throughout the year, by participating in investor roadshows and presentations to shareholders.
Feedback from these visits is reported to the Board.
the Directors also have regular contact with analysts and brokers.
the senior Independent non-executive Director and other non-executive Directors including the chairman receive reports on matters raised at the meetings with shareholders and are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
as a result of these procedures, the non-executive Directors believe that they are aware of shareholders views.
In addition, lord Bilimoria, the senior Independent non-executive Director, is available to meet with major shareholders.
no shareholders asked to meet with him during the year.
arrangements can also be made through the company secretary for major shareholders to meet with newly appointed directors.
the Group maintains a website at www.
com which is regularly updated and contains information about the Group.
the code encourages boards to use the annual General Meeting to communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
In compliance with the code, the Board welcomes as many shareholders as possible to attend the annual General Meeting to discuss any interest or concern, including performance, governance or strategy, with the Directors.
all Directors are expected to attend the annual General Meeting.
the chairs of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available at the annual General Meeting to answer shareholder questions, through the chairman of the Board, on the responsibilities and activities of their committees.
shareholders also have the opportunity to meet with the Directors following the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In compliance with the code, at the annual General Meeting, the chairman will announce the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, the balance for and against and abstentions, after it has been dealt with on a show of hands and such details will be placed on the Groups website following the meeting.
a separate resolution will be proposed at the annual General Meeting in respect of each substantially separate issue.
the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will deal with matters relating to those committees.
Directors conflicts of interest Following the changes made to the companys articles of association at the annual General Meeting in 2008 and the subsequent introduction of section 175 of the companies act 2006 on 1 october 2008 which allows the Directors to authorise potential and actual conflicts of interest, formal procedures for the notification and authorisation of such conflicts have been approved by the Board.
14 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 corporate GoVernance Principles of Corporate Governance the company and the Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
the company complied fully with the combined code on corporate Governance the code, published in June 2008 by the Financial reporting council except as detailed below in relation to provision a.
3.2 in respect of the balance of executive and non-executive directors from 9 november 2009. this report sets out details of how the company has applied the principles of section 1 of the code during the year.
The workings of the Board and its committees The Board the company is led and controlled by the Board of Directors the Board chaired by richard rose.
the Board currently consists of five executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
the code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive Directors as determined by the Board.
until 9 november 2009 the company complied with this provision of the code, however on this date Mark aylwin was appointed an executive Director and the number of executive Directors has since equalled the number of non-executive Directors, including the chairman.
For the reasons set out below, the Board believes that the resultant balance is appropriate.
the independence of non-executive Directors is considered at least annually and is based on the criteria suggested in the code.
richard rose was an executive Director and chairman of Blueheath Holdings plc Blueheath immediately prior to the reverse acquisition of Blueheath by the Booker Group and became non-executive chairman of the company upon completion of the merger.
the Groups combined business is significantly different to and larger than Blueheath and there is a division of responsibilities between richard and the executive Directors, in particular, charles Wilson as chief executive, such that his current and former roles can be considered incomparable.
Both richard rose and andrew cripps serve as directors of Helphire Group plc.
Having regard to all the circumstances, including the independence richard has demonstrated as chairman and andrew as chairman of the audit committee of the company, the Board is satisfied and has determined that richard and andrew are both independent.
consequently, all the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement in accordance with the code.
the Board believes that it is appropriate to have a senior Independent non-executive Director and lord Bilimoria fulfils this role.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels have failed to resolve, or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
the Board believes that it is of sufficient size, that it has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, that, despite the inequality in number of executive and non-executive Directors, no individual, or group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
the Board also believes that compliance with the codes provisions in relation to the constitution of the Board at this point in time would not outweigh the potential risk that any additional appointment to the Board might make its size unwieldy.
Details of the individuals skills and experience of the Directors are contained in the Directors biographies on page 10.
11 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 corporate GoVernance continued The Board continued the Board meets regularly, on at least twelve scheduled occasions during each year and more frequently if necessary.
there were twelve scheduled Board meetings, five audit committee meetings, five remuneration committee meetings and three nomination committee meetings held in the year under review and the attendance by Directors was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive 1 2 3 charles Wilson 12 12 5 5 5 5 3 3 1 Jonathan prentis 12 12 5 5 4 Mark aylwin 5 5 Bryan Drew 11 12 Bryn satherley 12 12 Non-Executive 1 2 5 richard rose 12 12 3 5 5 5 3 3 5 lord Bilimoria 12 12 5 5 3 3 5 andrew cripps 12 12 5 5 5 5 3 3 3 5 6 richard Farr 6 8 2 3 3 4 1 1 3 5 7 Karen Jones 12 12 3 3 1 1 8 Kevin lyon 3 3 2 2 1 not a member of the audit committee but attended by invitation 2 not a member of the remuneration committee but attended by invitation 3 not a member of the nomination committee but attended by invitation 4 Mark aylwin was appointed to the Board on 9 november 2009 5 Independent non-executive Director 6 richard Farr was appointed to the Board and to the audit and remuneration committees on 27 May 2009 7 Karen Jones was appointed to the audit committee on 27 May 2009 8 Kevin lyon resigned from the Board on 27 May 2009 the Board keeps the membership of committees under review to ensure gradual refreshing of skills and experience.
the Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient time to devote to their roles and that it is not placing undue reliance on key individuals.
the Board is responsible to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and that it achieves its objectives.
the Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by it, thus ensuring that it exercises control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and regulatory issues.
at its meetings, the Board reviews trading performance, ensures adequate financing, sets and monitors strategy, examines investment and acquisition opportunities and discusses reports to shareholders.
Matters not specifically reserved for the Board and its committees under its schedule of matters and the committees terms of reference, or for shareholders in general meeting, are delegated to members of the executive committee.
It is the companys policy that the roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate, with their roles and responsibilities clearly divided and set out in writing.
the chairmans main responsibility is the leadership and management of the Board and its governance.
the chairmans commitment to the company is usually 2 days per month.
His other significant commitments are disclosed in his biography on page 10. the Board considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability to discharge his responsibilities to the company effectively.
the chief executive is responsible for the leadership and day-to-day management of the Group.
this includes formulating and recommending the Groups strategy for Board approval in addition to executing the approved strategy.
Information and professional development on appointment, individual Directors undergo an induction programme covering, amongst other things: the business of the Group: their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors of the company: briefings and presentations from relevant executives: opportunities to visit business operations.
the Board is supplied with regular and timely information in a form and of a quality that enables it to discharge its duties.
all Directors are encouraged to make further enquiries as they feel appropriate of the executive Directors or management.
In addition, Board committees are provided with sufficient resources, plus the power to co-opt such additional support as they may require from time to time, to undertake their duties.
12 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 all Directors are entitled to receive independent professional advice at the companys expense and have access to the services of a professionally qualified and experienced company secretary, who is responsible for information flows to the Board and advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
this ensures compliance with Board procedure and applicable laws and regulation.
the Board has responsibilty for the appointment and removal of the company secretary.
Performance evaluation During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its three principal committees.
In april 2010, each Director completed a questionnaire prepared by the chairman and the company secretary to rate the collective performance of the Board and its committees.
the company secretary collated the evaluation results and the chairman then reviewed an unattributed executive summary, highlighting key outcomes.
a report of the findings was then presented to and discussed by the Board.
the Directors have concluded that, following this evaluation, the Board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each Director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group.
During the year, the chairman and the non-executive Directors met in the absence of the executive Directors and there was one meeting of the non-executive Directors chaired by the senior Independent non-executive Director at which the chairman was not present in order to appraise the chairmans performance.
Committees the Board has established an audit committee, a nomination committee and a remuneration committee to oversee and debate issues of policy outside main Board meetings.
throughout the year, the chairman of each committee provided the Board with a summary of key issues considered at the committee meetings.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services of external advisers as they deem necessary in the furtherance of their duties at the companys expense.
Audit Committee chaired by andrew cripps, non-executive Director, the audit committee during the year comprised until 27 May 2009 andrew cripps and one other non-executive, Kevin lyon, and from 27 May 2009 andrew cripps and two other non-executives, richard Farr and Karen Jones.
all members of the audit committee are considered by the Board to be independent.
the Board considers andrew cripps to have recent and relevant financial experience including his role as chairman and member of the audit committee at a number of fully listed companies and previous executive experience at a Ftse 100 listed company.
the company secretary is secretary to the audit committee.
the audit committee has defined terms of reference, which are published on the Groups website.
richard rose chairman, charles Wilson chief executive, Jonathan prentis Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal audit and the external auditor attend meetings of the audit committee by invitation.
the audit committee is primarily responsible for: ensuring that the financial performance of the Group is properly monitored and reported on: reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process: meeting with the external auditor and reviewing reports from the external auditor relating to the Groups accounting and internal controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control: agreeing the terms of appointment and remuneration of the external auditor: agreeing the scope and reviewing the work of the Groups internal audit team.
the audit committee monitors the nature and extent of non-audit work performed by the external auditor to ensure the maintenance of objectivity and value for money and also considers the potential impact, if any, of this work on the auditors independence.
the audit committee and KpMG audit plc, the external auditor, operate procedures to ensure that the external auditor remains objective and independent.
these procedures include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit by the committee.
the committee conducts a formal annual review of the independence of the external auditor, looking carefully at the level of non-audit work conducted by the external auditor and the detailed safeguards which they have in place.
the fees paid to the external auditor during the year are set out in note 4 to the Financial statements on page 37. the non-audit fees relate to tax and other commercial advice.
the committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the external auditor.
the Group has adopted a whistleblowing programme in all of its operations whereby employees can, in confidence, report on matters where they feel a malpractice is taking place, or if health and safety standards are being compromised.
additional areas that are addressed by this procedure include criminal activities, improper or unethical behaviour and risks to the environment.
the procedures allow employees to raise their concerns with line management or, if this is inappropriate, to raise them on a confidential basis.
an externally facilitated confidential helpline and confidential e-mail facility are provided to protect the identity of employees in these circumstances.
any concerns will be investigated in a confidential manner by the Human resources Department and or the company secretary and, after a decision has been made as to what if any further steps should be taken, feedback will be given to the person making the complaint.
an official written record will be kept of each stage of the procedure.
this policy and related procedures are monitored by the audit committee.
13 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 these procedures, which enable the Directors to impose limits or conditions when giving or reviewing authorisation, ensure that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered can authorise conflicts, and require the Board to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on an ad hoc basis when necessary.
any potential conflicts of interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
these procedures have operated effectively throughout the current financial period.
Internal controls and risk management like all businesses, the business faces risks and uncertainties that could impact on the Groups achievement of its objectives.
risk is accepted as being a part of doing business and within the Group the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its adequacy and effectiveness.
such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and aims to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement and loss.
In order to discharge that responsibility in a manner that ensures compliance with laws and regulations and promotes effective and efficient operations, the Directors have established an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
the Board formally reviews the operation and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls on an annual basis.
the latest review covered the financial year to 26 March 2010. no significant failings or weaknesses were identified from this review.
the Board has a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
this process is continual and has been in place for the year under review up to the date of this report, and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with relevant guidance.
there is an established framework of internal controls, which is set out in procedures approved by the Board and which include financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
these procedures are readily accessible to staff, who follow their guidance.
the more important elements of this framework are as follows: Management structure the Board has overall responsibility for the company and the executive committee has responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
the Board and each of its committees operate under a schedule of matters or terms of reference and the Board determines how the chief executive and the executive committee may operate within a framework of delegated authorities and reserved powers which seek to ensure that certain transactions which are significant in terms of their size or type, are undertaken only after Board review.
the executive committee is chaired by charles Wilson chief executive and comprises Jonathan prentis Group Finance Director, Bryan Drew commercial Director, Bryn satherley operations Director, Mark aylwin Managing Director - Booker Direct and other members of the management team representing the operational functions within the Group.
It meets twice a month to discuss operational matters, compliance, health and safety and trading performance.
Corporate accounting and procedures responsibility levels are communicated throughout the Group as part of the corporate communication procedure.
accounting, delegation of authority and authorisation levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures, together with the general ethos of the Group are included in these communications, and standardised accounting policies are in place reflecting this policy.
these procedures are subject to review to ensure that improvements to enhance controls can be made.
Quality and integrity of personnel the integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training.
Quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment and the ethical standards expected are communicated through senior members of staff.
Budgetary process each year the Board approves the annual budget, which includes an assessment of key risk areas.
performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year by regular reporting to the Board of updated forecasts together with information on key risk areas.
Risk management the Board assesses risk management throughout the Group aided by detailed reviews of internal controls and risk management procedures.
Investment appraisal capital expenditure is regulated by the use of authorisation levels.
For all expenditure beyond specified levels, Board approval is required.
15 Booker Group plc annual report & accounts 2010 corporate GoVernance continued Internal audit the Groups internal audit function, which reports to the Group Finance Director and chairman of the audit committee, monitors the effectiveness of key internal controls and the adequacy of these controls to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources, in accordance with a work plan approved and monitored by the audit committee.
Its conclusions are communicated to the relevant level of management and the function has a direct reporting responsibility to the audit committee.
Risks and Uncertainties the list below sets out the most significant risks to the achievement of the Groups business goals.
the list does not include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the risks in any order of priority.
Economic environment the economy is expected to remain difficult in the year ahead with potential tax rises and the public reducing their levels of discretionary spend.
customers will seek to obtain best value from products and the Group aims to provide a wide range of products that meet this requirement.
Competition the industry is extremely competitive with the market being served by numerous competitors, ranging from national multiple retailers to regional independent wholesalers.
the Group competes by closely monitoring the activities of competitors and ensuring it continues to improve the choice, price and service to its customers.
Regulation the Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, shareholders, staff and other stakeholders and the operation of an open and competitive market.
these regulations include food hygiene, health and safety, data protection, the rules of the london stock exchange and competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities very seriously, and recognises that any breach of regulation could cause reputational and financial damage to the Group.
Product quality and safety the quality and safety of our products is of critical importance and any failure in this regard would affect the confidence of our customers in us.
We work with our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products supplied.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously throughout the Group, and are monitored both through internal audit procedures and by external bodies such as environmental health departments.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis management in order to act quickly when required.
We are aware that if we fail or are perceived to have failed to deliver, to our customers satisfaction, the expected standards of quality and safety in our products this has the potential to impact on their loyalty to us.
this in turn could adversely impact on our market share and our financial results.
Employee engagement and retention the continued success of the Group relies heavily on the investment in the training and development of our employees.
the Groups employment policies, remuneration and benefits packages are designed to be competitive, as well as providing colleagues with fulfilling career opportunities.
the Group continually engages with colleagues across the business to ensure that we keep strengthening our team at every level.
Supplier credit availability of supplier credit is essential for the Groups financial performance.
any reduction in the availability of supplier credit could adversely impact the Group.
the Group regularly meet key credit insurers to ensure that they have an up to date view of the Groups financial position.
Financial and treasury the Groups financial results may be subject to volatility arising from movements in commodity prices, foreign currencies, interest rates and the availability of sources of funding.
see note 16 to the annual report and accounts.
Pensions the Group operates a defined benefit scheme, where judgements are required to determine the assumptions for future salary and pension increases, discount rate, inflation, investment returns and member longevity.
there is a risk of underestimating this liability.
this risk is mitigated by: maintaining a relatively strong funding position over time, taking advice from independent qualified actuaries, agreeing appropriate investment policies with the trustees and closely monitoring the funding position with the trustees.
see note 18 of the annual report and accounts.
Information technology IT the Group is exposed to the risk that the It systems upon which it relies fail.
the Group has appropriate controls in place to mitigate the risk of systems failure, including systems back up procedures and disaster recovery plans, and also has appropriate virus protection and network security controls.
this report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2010.
