Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 24 Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement The corporate governance statement forms part of the The Board is satisfied that all Directors have sufficient knowledge Report of the Directors.
and expertise for their roles and that the structure and operation of the Board and its committees remains effective.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has put in place a framework for Directors are appointed for an initial term covering the period corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an from the date of appointment to the next Annual General investment trust whose principal activity is portfolio investment Meeting, at which they are required to submit themselves for and which will enable the Company to comply with the relevant election by shareholders.
The Company's Articles of Association provisions of the Combined Code, issued by the Financial provide that one-third of the Board should retire by rotation each Reporting Council FRC in June 2008, as well as the Code year and, other than for the Directors representing or connected of Corporate Governance published by the Association of with the Investment Manager, who are required to stand for Investment Companies the AIC Principles.
The Board has re-election each year under FSA Listing Rules, all Directors carried out a review of the provisions of the Combined Code, are required to submit themselves for re-election at least the AIC Principles and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules, every three years unless they have served on the Board for and confirms that it complies with these, except as explained nine years or more whereupon they are required to stand for below where the Company has not complied or does not election annually.
believe it appropriate to do so.
As the Company has no executive Directors, the provisions of the Combined Code The Board as a whole fulfils the function of a Nomination in relation to executive Directors' remuneration and the role Committee and therefore the establishment of a separate of the Chief Executive do not apply to the Company.
committee is not considered necessary.
The Board has an agreed procedure for the appointment of Despite the provisions of code D. 2.2, the Company will provide non-executive Directors.
printed summaries of proxy voting at general meetings, which will also be posted on the Company's website after the meeting, The Audit Committee comprises Christopher Jones as rather than reading out proxy voting results at the meeting after Chairman, Ian Barby and, following the resignation of Patrick each Resolution has been voted on.
It is the responsibility of the Audit Committee to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity and financial reporting.
The Audit The Board and its committees Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager The Board comprises five non-executive Directors, three of at least twice a year and receives reports on the quality and whom are deemed by the Board to be independent.
Christopher effectiveness of the accounting records and management Jones is the Senior Independent Director.
The terms of reference information maintained on behalf of the Company.
Since the of committees of the Board are available from the registered Company's accounting and custodial activities are carried out office of the Company.
by third-party service providers, the Board does not consider it necessary to have a separate internal audit function or The Directors ordinarily meet as a Board four times a year, at whistleblowing procedures.
Mr Barby provides significant which time they review the Company's investments and other input at meetings of the Audit Committee and the Board is matters of relevance to the Company.
Between these meetings, therefore satisfied for him to be a member of that Committee the Board is in regular contact with the Investment Manager.
notwithstanding Principle 5 of the AIC Principles.
There is a written list of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes decisions relating to the determination of investment policy, any change in investment strategy, gearing The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and risk policy, the repurchase of shares, and the entering into of material management systems: accounting policies: consistency and contracts.
In addition, changes relating to the Company's capital integrity of published financial information: auditor qualifications structure, circulars to shareholders, listing particulars, relevant and objectivity: and the effectiveness of the audit process as press releases and any significant changes in accounting applied to the Company.
Having reviewed the services provided policies must be approved by the Board.
All Directors have by the external auditor, including the terms of their engagement access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and any non-audit work provided to the Company, the Audit and, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, the Committee is satisfied as to the independence of the external Directors may seek independent professional advice at the auditor and recommends their re-appointment at the expense of the Company.
Details of non-audit fees paid to the external auditor are set out in note 4 on page 37.
Subsequent to the year-end, the Board conducted a formal appraisal of its performance as a whole, of its committees and of individual Directors.
The appraisals were led by the Chairman through soliciting the views of individual Directors, the results of which were then openly discussed in a Board meeting.
Without the Chairman present, the Board verbally reviewed his performance under the leadership of Christopher Jones, the Senior Independent Director.
Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities pic 25 Report and Accounts 2010 The Board as a whole fulfils the function of a Remuneration The Board has contractually delegated the management of Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, which is chaired the Company's investment portfolio to the Investment Manager, by Ian Barby, is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and Ecofin Limited.
The Investment Manager does not, however, making recommendations to the Board on all elements of the have custody of the Company's assets, which are in the remuneration of the Directors and the Company's advisers.
custody of an independent custodian, Citigroup, with whom Given Mr Barby's broad industry knowledge the Board considers the Company has entered into a Prime Brokerage Agreement.
his chairmanship of the Committee, notwithstanding the AIC The day-to-day administration of the Company is undertaken Principles, to be desirable and in the interest of the Company.
by Phoenix Administration Services Limited the Administrator, which also provides the Company with company secretarial services.
The Board has entered into contracts with each The Board as a whole also acts as the Management of these service providers after full and careful consideration Engagement Committee under the chairmanship of Ian Barby.
of the services provided and the performance of these service providers is reviewed regularly.
The Investment Manager, The following table sets out the number of meetings attended Prime Broker and Administrator each maintain their own by Directors: systems of internal and financial controls.
Management Board Audit Engagement Regular Committee Committee The system of controls the Board has adopted is designed Number of meetings 1 to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk that the Company Ian Barby 6 2 1 will be unable to meet its business objectives, and can provide 5 2 1 Patrick Blanchard reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against any material 6 2 1 Christopher Jones misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the operation Federico Marescotti 6 n a 1 and effectiveness of the Company's system of internal controls 6 n a n a John Murray during the period and assesses and manages the Company's Martin Negre 6 n a n a key risks on an ongoing basis.
The Audit Committee has Resigned 1 January, 2010. established a framework to provide it and the Board with reasonable assurances as to the effectiveness of the internal Internal control controls operated by third-party service providers.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing those risks that are Relations with shareholders significant for the Company and that this process reflects Communication with shareholders is given a high priority the guidance provided by the FRC Internal Control, Revised by the Board, and members of the Board and the Investment Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code in October Manager have regular contact with the Company's institutional 2005.
This process was in place during the year ended shareholders.
The Board supports the principle that the Annual 31 March, 2010, and during the period from that date to the General Meeting be used to communicate with investors, and date of this annual report and financial statements, and has all shareholders are encouraged to attend and vote.
Directors been reviewed by the Board.
are available at the Annual General Meeting to discuss issues affecting the Company with shareholders.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal controls adopted by the Company and for reviewing Going concern the effectiveness of these controls.
The Board sets the The Directors have carefully reviewed the Company's current Company's investment strategy and regularly reviews the financial resources, the majority of net assets being securities financial performance of the Company, and other matters which are traded on recognised stock exchanges, and the relevant to the Company's operations, with the Investment projected expenses of the Group for the next 12 months.
Manager and with other providers of services to the On the basis of that review the Directors are satisfied that the Company, as appropriate.
Company's resources are adequate for continuing in business for the foreseeable future, and that it is appropriate to prepare A key element of the system of controls adopted by the the Group's financial statements on a going concern basis.
Board is the employment of third parties to provide services to the Company and the establishment of clearly defined responsibilities and reporting procedures between the Board and these third parties, and among the third parties themselves.
This means that any material transaction undertaken on the Company's behalf is done so with the knowledge and approval of more than one service provider to the Company.
