Statement of Corporate Governance Compliance Meetings Audit Remuneration held and Board Committee Committee The Company is committed to high standards of corporate attendance meetings meetings meetings governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, and this statement describes how the Company applies the Tony 2 2 n a n a principles identified in the 2008 Combined Code appended Cassidy to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules throughout Frank 5 5 n a n a the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has Frame complied throughout the accounting period to 31 August David 5 5 3 3 1 1 2010 with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
Gairns The Company is also a member of the Association of Tony 5 5 2 3 1 1 Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Lowrie Code of corporate governance to recognise the special Allan 5 5 3 3 1 1 circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the McKenzie opinion that the Company has complied with the Peter Tyrie 5 5 n a n a recommendations of the AIC Code.
Iain Watt 5 5 n a n a Member of Audit Committee The Board Iain McLaren was appointed on 6 September 2010 and therefore did not attend meetings during the financial year The Board consists of seven non-executive Directors.
Profiles of the Board members appear on pages 18 to 20 of the Directors also attended a number of non-scheduled meetings annual report.
Each Director has the requisite range of to deal with special ad-hoc issues.
business and financial experience to enable the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for of the Company.
Mr Frame is the Senior Independent decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these Director and is available to shareholders in the event that matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the there are concerns that cannot be resolved through Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of discussion with the Chairman.
investment policy, performance, borrowings, treasury, marketing, Board composition, corporate governance policy The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All and communications with shareholders.
Full and timely Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager information is provided to the Board to enable the Directors and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
which could interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue judgement.
The Board takes the view that length of service budgets.
This is consistent with the AIC Code.
Mr Watt, being a former director of Edinburgh Performance Evaluation Fund Managers Group plc, did have a material relationship with the Manager but given that relationship was over five An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and of years ago, he is deemed to be independent.
When making a the operation of the Board and its Committees, was recommendation for re-electing a Director, the Board will undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance take into account the on-going requirements of the assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys performance continues to be effective, and that each affairs.
It delegates, through an investment management remains fully committed to the Company.
agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day management of the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen There is no separate Nomination Committee.
appraisals, succession planning, new appointments and training are considered by the whole Board.
The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, Succession Planning there is regular contact between the Directors and the In line with the Companys strong commitment to its Manager throughout the year.
The following table sets out corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly the number of scheduled Board meetings including reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the Committees held during the financial year and the number correct mix of relevant skills and experience for the good of meetings attended by each Director.
conduct of the Companys business.
New Directors are 26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc identified against the requirements of the Companys year under review and up to the date of approval of this business and the need to have a balanced Board.
For new annual report and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the appointments a description of the required role is prepared Board and accords with the FRCs guidance, Internal Control: and nominations of Directors are sought in the financial and Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
External search consultants are used to Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks The Board has agreed a succession planning programme in affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks order to provide an appropriate balance between new blood are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are and continuity, in line with good corporate governance.
as follows: During the year an external consultant was employed by the Board to identify potential candidates for a new Board financial: appointment.
This resulted in the appointment of Iain operational: McLaren as a non-executive director on 6 September 2010. compliance: and Mr McLaren is a chartered accountant and a former senior reputational.
He will offer himself for election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Board supports his candidature.
the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and The Companys Articles of Association provide that a compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control Director appointed during the year is required to retire and systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General function which undertakes periodic examination of business Meeting.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for processes, including compliance with the terms of the re-election at least once every three years.
The Boards management agreement, and ensures that recommendations current policy is that Directors with more than nine years to improve controls are implemented.
service are required to submit themselves for annual reelection.
In line with the Boards policy, Messrs Frame and Risks are identified and documented through a risk Watt retire at this years Annual General Meeting and offer management framework by each function within the themselves for re-election.
The Board has reviewed the skills Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the and experience of each Director, and supports their reFRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market election.
The Board also supports the re-election of Tony operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit Lowrie who is due to retire under the Companys Articles of risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Association at this years Annual General Meeting.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to New Directors will be given appropriate induction from the systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required Manager.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Note 18 to the accounts provides further information on There is a procedure for a Director to take independent risks.
The key components designed to provide effective professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
internal control are outlined below: The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts Remuneration Committee which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities The Remuneration Committee, which comprises David and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining Gairns Chairman, Allan McKenzie and Tony Lowrie, is the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting responsible for determining the level of Directors fees.
Details of Directors remuneration are contained within the The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined Directors Remuneration Report.
investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Internal Control performance statistics and investment valuations, are The Board is responsible for the Companys system of regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The with the Manager as appropriate.
Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for As a matter of course, the Managers compliance identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks department continually reviews the Managers operations.
This process has been in place for the Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Written agreements are in place which specifically define to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third external auditors to supply non-audit services.
audit fees for the year to 31 August 2010 were 14,000, The Board has considered the need for an internal audit relating to the review of the interim accounts and their function but, because of the compliance and internal work on the Tender Offer.
The Board will review any future control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to non-audit fees in the light of the requirement to maintain place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit the auditors independence.
to review the arrangements in place within the Manager The Audit Committee carried out six monthly reviews of whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about internal controls, including the internal audit and possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or compliance functions.
At its October 2010 meeting, the other matters.
Audit Committee performed its annual assessment of to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the internal controls for the year ended 31 August 2010 and appointment of the external auditors and to approve the taking account of events since 31 August 2010.
The results remuneration and terms of engagement of the external of the assessment were reported to the Board.
to monitor and review annually the external auditors Internal control systems are designed to meet the independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is qualification.
At its October 2010 meeting, the Committee exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are was satisfied that the auditors remained independent and designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure objective.
to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only to review the performance of the Manager and its provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against compliance with the Management Agreement.
Going Concern Accountability and Audit Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the continuation of the Company every three years.
The last auditors in connection with the financial statements appear continuation vote was in December 2009 when shareholders on pages 30 and 32. voted in favour of continuation.
The members of the Audit Committee are Mr Gairns The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares Chairman, Mr McKenzie and Mr McLaren.
Mr Lowrie stood in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in down from the Audit Committee in October 2010.
All most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
members of the Audit Committee are chartered accountants The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to and have the necessary recent and relevant financial adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the experience.
The Audit Committee considers reports from the accounts, and they consider that the Company has adequate external auditors and the Managers internal audit and resources to continue in operational existence for the compliance functions.
The terms of reference of the Audit foreseeable future.
Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are reviewed and re-assessed on an Review of Manager annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the Audit The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under Committee are: constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers management systems on which the Company is reliant.
The notice period for to consider annually whether there is a need for the the Company under the Agreement if it wishes to terminate Company to have its own internal audit function.
the Agreement is three months or on shorter notice in to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial certain circumstances.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the where necessary, the actions and judgements of the notice period.
Following the most recent review, the Board Manager.
concluded that the Manager, whose team is well-qualified to meet with the external auditors to review their proposed and experienced, had satisfactorily met the terms of its audit programme of work and the findings of the auditors.
Agreement with the Company, and is satisfied that the The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of the effectiveness of the audit process.
the Company and its shareholders.
28 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Relations with Shareholders The Directors place great importance on communication with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company through the Managers freephone information service, and the Company responds to letters from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds back shareholder views to the Board.
The Board also met with representatives of the major shareholders during the financial year.
The Companys annual and interim reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting on a show of hands.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder In relation to the use of the Companys voting rights in respect of investee companies, the Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The underlying aim of the exercising of such voting rights is to protect the return from an investment.
The Managers policy is to vote in a prudent and diligent manner, and, as far as is practicable, to vote at all meetings called by investee companies.
Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in both areas.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
