L15825 Edinburgh pp15 36 2 6 10 4:55 pm Page 28 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Board Balance The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details of members of the Board are shown on page 12.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
Appointment, Re-election, Tenure and the Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Scott Dobbie.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its duties and responsibilities.
These include regularly evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and whether to recommend the re-election of those Directors seeking re-election at each AGM to shareholders.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating for approval of the Board, candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company.
They will also be available at the AGM.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors may, by notice in writing, remove any Director from the Board without notice or compensation.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors.
During the financial year, following a full years experience in working with Invesco Perpetual, the Board conducted an evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Committee and of individual Directors.
The method used was self evaluation by means of a questionnaire.
The Chairman collated these responses and produced a summary note which was discussed at a meeting of the Directors.
The senior independent director conducted a similar exercise to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The result of the performance evaluation process was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board, the Chairman and individual Directors was deemed fully satisfactory.
Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration periodically.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 33 and 34.
