2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 30 Reports Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in March 2009.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, issued in June 2008, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Copies of the Combined Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
uk and copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the website of the Association of Investment Companies www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code during the year to 30 September 2010 except in relation to the formal performance appraisal of the Directors.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised six Directors at 30 September 2010 all of whom were non-executive.
Dr C Bowe was appointed as Chairman on 24 May 2010 following the retirement of Sir Brian Williamson as Chairman and as a non-executive Director.
The Board appointed Mr RK Perkin as a non-executive Director on 24 November 2009 and on 1 November 2010 appointed Ms K Barker as a non-executive Director.
The Board has nominated Mr JP Williams as the Senior Independent Director.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with Electra Partners.
Management agreements between the Company and Electra Partners set out the matters for which Electra Partners is responsible and those over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors attended the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration and Audit Nomination Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 13 2 1 2 Dr C Bowe 12 2 1 2 Sir Brian Williamson 9 RA Armstrong 10 2 RK Perkin 91 1 MEDA Walton 13 2 1 2 L Webber 12 2 1 2 JP Williams 12 1 1 Dr C Bowe resigned from the Audit Committee and the Valuations Committee subsequent to her appointment as Chairman.
Sir Brian Williamson was not a member of the Audit or Valuations Committees during the period prior to his retirement.
Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams were not members of the Valuations Committee.
Mr RK Perkin joined the Board and the Committees during the year, and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee subsequent to the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
30 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 31 The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience can be found on page 72.
Independence of the Board Mr RA Armstrong, Mr MEDA Walton and Mr JP Williams have served on the Board for more than nine years.
Throughout the year, Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams were non-executive Directors of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC.
Dr C Bowe was appointed as a non-executive Director and Chairman of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 24 May 2010 following the retirement of Sir Brian Williamson as Chairman and non-executive Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC.
In addition Mr RK Perkin was appointed as a Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 3 June 2010.
Electra Private Equity Investments PLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and notwithstanding the cross-directorships detailed above has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by length of service.
As Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams are to retire from the Board at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, Mr MEDA Walton is the only Director who has been in office for more than nine years who will submit himself for annual re-election.
The Board carried out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees during the year.
This was implemented by means of questionnaires circulated to the Directors, the results of which were then reviewed by the Board.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and of its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
In view of the retirement of Sir Brian Williamson and the appointment of Dr C Bowe as Chairman during the year no formal appraisal of each Director was carried out.
Nevertheless the Chairman believes that the performance of each of the existing Directors is effective and that they continue to show commitment to their roles.
It is the intention of the Board that Director appraisals will be conducted during the course of the current financial year.
Directors Terms of Appointment It is the Boards policy that Directors shall retire and be subject to appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board and be subject to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
Directors who have served for more than nine years and who wish to continue in office are required to submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Board does not believe that length of service disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the AIC Codes provisions and or the Companys Articles, each of Dr C Bowe, Mr MEDA Walton and Ms L Webber will retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011 and each offers himself or herself for reelection.
Ms K Barker will offer herself for election at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2011.
Independent Professional Advice Individual Directors may seek independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense within certain parameters.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Company Secretary Frostrow Capital LLP acted as the independent Company Secretary in addition to its role as Board Adviser during the year under review.
31 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 Reports Corporate Governance 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 32 Reports The Audit Committee The Board is supported by the Audit Committee which comprised all the Directors during the year, other than the former Chairman of the Board, Sir Brian Williamson prior to his retirement and Dr C Bowe subsequent to her appointment as Chairman of the Board, when she resigned from the Committee.
Mr RK Perkin was appointed Chairman of the Committee in place of Mr RA Armstrong subsequent to the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
The Board has taken note of the suggestion that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and is satisfied that the Committee is properly constituted in this respect.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined in its written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
The Committees responsibilities include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the financial statements, the internal financial controls and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms of their engagement: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: reviewing the arrangements in place within Electra Partners whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: and considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
The Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditors.
In doing so the Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the auditors to tender for the audit work.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years and the current partner has been in place for four years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company Law the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee has reviewed the provision of non-audit services and believes them to be cost-effective and not an impediment to the external auditors objectivity and independence.
The non-audit services include the provision of taxation advice.
It has been agreed that all non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors must be approved by the Committee and that any special projects must be approved in advance.
Following the review carried out by the Committee as to whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function, the Board has considered and continues to believe that the internal control systems in place within Electra Partners and the internal control reports provided by it give sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee The Remuneration and Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr JP Williams, comprises all the Directors of the Company, all of whom are considered to be independent.
The Board considers it appropriate, given the number of Directors, that all Directors should comprise the Committee.
The Committee met once in the year under review.
During the year the Committee engaged the services of an external search consultant in relation to the appointment of an additional Director.
The Committees duties in relation to remuneration, include determining and agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Directors.
The Committees duties in relation to nomination include identifying and nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies in order to maintain a balanced Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website.
32 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 33 The Valuations Committee The Valuations Committee adds a further level of oversight to the valuation process carried out by Electra Partners under its contractual arrangements with the Company.
The Valuations Committee is chaired by Mr MEDA Walton.
Dr C Bowe was a member of the Committee until her appointment as Chairman when she resigned from the Committee.
Ms L Webber was a member of the Committee throughout the year and Mr RK Perkin was appointed as a member of the Committee during the year.
Induction and Training New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee and which includes being briefed fully about the Company by the Chairman, senior executives of Electra Partners and the Company Secretary.
Following appointment, Directors continue to receive other relevant training and advice as necessary to enable them to discharge their duties.
The Companys Relationship with its Shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Company, in conjunction with Electra Partners, endeavours to provide the fullest information on the Company to its shareholders, maintaining a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and City analysts, as well as making a number of presentations and visits throughout the year.
Meetings are held with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
At the Annual General Meeting all shareholders are welcome to attend and have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and hear a presentation from Electra Partners covering the investment performance during the last financial year.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including receipt of the annual report and accounts.
All proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, the level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Companys website.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director can be contacted either through the Company Secretary, Frostrow Capital LLP, at 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL or at the Companys registered office at Paternoster House, 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB.
Internal Control The Board confirms that it has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place throughout the year and has continued since the year end.
It is reviewed at regular intervals by the Board.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and has reviewed its effectiveness for the year ended 30 September 2010.
This review encompasses all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys consolidated annual financial statements, along with the half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements are prepared in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements.
Since investment management, custody of assets and many administrative services are provided or arranged for the Company by Electra Partners, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
As part of this process Electra Partners is responsible for submitting performance statistics, investment valuations and management accounts to the Board.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Financial Reporting regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including management accounts, revenue projections, analyses of transactions and performance comparisons.
Investment Strategy regular review by the Board of the Companys Objective and Investment Policy, including commitments to new funds.
Management Agreements and Investment Performance the Board regularly monitors the performance of Electra Partners to ensure that the Companys assets and affairs are managed in accordance with the Companys Objective and Investment Policy.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 Reports Corporate Governance 2010 RA 20-37 final:2006 as 2007 23-36 14 12 10 15:24 Page 34 Reports The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key controls of Electra Partners as follows: The Board reviews the terms of the management agreements and receives regular reports from Electra Partners executives.
The Board reviews the certificates verifying compliance with documented controls provided by Electra Partners on a six monthly basis.
Voting Policy Under the investment management arrangements Electra Partners has complete discretion in relation to all voting issues in respect of the Companys investments.
During the year, Electra Partners policy adopted and applied the Statement of Principles drawn up by the Institutional Shareholders Committee when it considered these in its reasonable judgement to best serve the financial interests of the Companys shareholders.
Electra Partners policy was reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Following the publication by the Financial Reporting Council of the UK Stewardship Code earlier this year, Electra Partners has adopted the UK Stewardship Code and has made disclosures regarding its policies on stewardship on its website, www.
Electra Partners policies on stewardship have been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Other Information in the Report of the Directors Other information regarding voting rights of shares, restrictions on voting, deadlines for exercising voting rights, appointment and replacement of Directors, powers of the Directors, authority to make market purchases of shares, substantial interests in the Companys shares and details concerning alteration of the Articles of Association of the Company is contained in the Report of the Directors.
34 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
