15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 26 26 Governance F&C Asset Management Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Company is committed to, and strives for, best practice in The biographies of the Directors appear on page 21.
The Board is accountable to the Companys demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to section one of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice issued in 2008 the Code have been applied.
and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that Statement of compliance applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board meets The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date hereof, applied Groups objectives and policies.
The Board focuses mainly on the principles and met the requirements of the Code with the strategy, investment and financial performance, the Groups control following exception: environment and executive management and Board succession.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive Following the appointment of Edward Bramson as the appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly Companys Chairman on 3 February 2011, the Board has not briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings.
In been in compliance with Code provision A.
3.1. in that Mr addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can Bramson, as a representative of the Companys largest request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, further shareholder, was not independent on appointment.
explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors years Annual General Meeting to be held on Tuesday, 3 May 2011.
Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List Going concern is reviewed annually and clearly sets out that authority is delegated The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
the Board prior to implementation.
Examples of matters reserved for The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval of: affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Group strategy: the annual budget: the composition and terms in the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
The financial position of of reference of any of the Board Committees: the high level the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the organisational structure: and the review of the effectiveness of the Business Review on pages 2 to 20.
In addition, Note 36 to the Groups system of internal control.
Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: The Board committees and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Board has established a number of standing committees to The Group has considerable financial resources together with longfacilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Board, published on the Companys website and are available on adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the written request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going of each of the Board Committees provide the authority to take concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Financial Statements.
The Board The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors, five of whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
Ian Brindle, a representative of Sherborne, the Companys largest shareholder, does not meet the criteria of independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 27 F&C Asset Management Directors Report on Corporate Governance Governance 27 A Statement of the Nomination Committee B Statement of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Purpose and Terms of Reference Purpose and Terms of Reference The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls surrounding the production of the Groups Financial Statements and provides the Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on Board with assurance that the processes and controls exist to facilitate reporting on the Groups risk management activities, including those the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent appointment process exists.
related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, internal control and adherence to policies and procedures.
Membership Membership The Committee is chaired by Edward Bramson.
The Committee The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter.
The Committee comprises the Chairman and three independent Non-executive Directors.
comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Members of the Nomination Committee: Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee: Edward Bramson appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Keith Kieran Poynter appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman of the Committee until 3 February 2011, Bedell-Pearce, Kieran Poynter appointed 1 March 2011 and Gerhard Roggemann.
Jeff Medlock appointed on 1 March 2011, Derham ONeill appointed on 1 March 2011 and Gerhard Roggemann.
Nick MacAndrew and Brian Larcombe served as members of the Brian Larcombe served as a member of the Committee throughout Committee throughout 2010 and up until their removal from the Board on 3 February 2011.
2010 and up until his removal from the Board on 3 February 2011.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee Activities and work of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should Throughout 2010 external search consultants were engaged by the continue throughout 2011.
Committee to conduct a search for an additional independent Nonexecutive Director.
The Committee identified a suitable candidate Activities and work of the Committee and issued an offer letter to a preferred candidate but for personal The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated reasons the candidate chose not to join the Board.
The Committee by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings.
Two resolved, in the final quarter of the year, to place this search on hold meetings are held early in the year, one to deal with matters of until the Board had obtained greater clarity from Sherborne on their governance for example, compliance with the Code, the Financial longer term intentions for the Company.
Following the General Services Act, the effectiveness of internal controls and risk Meeting in February 2011, and the resultant changes to the management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit composition of the Board, the Committee have recommenced the Risk & Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the search for two additional independent Non-executive Directors.
independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee process and the other to consider the integrity of the year-end Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
Companys and the Groups financial performance, including any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
A similar On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final meeting of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard taking place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters.
letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the The Committee also considers and reviews other risk management or requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of appointment can control documentation including the Groups policy on whistleblowing, be inspected during normal working hours at the Companys the results of internal and external audit and compliance reports or registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
The management letters, and oversees the award of any non-audit related Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Nonconsultancy work.
On an annual basis the Committee considers and executive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the makes a recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, recontribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability appointment or removal of the external auditors and approves their for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the shareholders.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at Committee are called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at hoc control issues that may emerge during the year as well as other least every three years.
matters that the Board has asked the Committee to consider or For the Board investigate.
For the Board Edward Bramson Chairman, Nomination Committee Kieran Poynter Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee 6 April 2011 6 April 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 28 28 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance F&C Asset Management C Statement of the Remuneration Committee Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal Purpose and Terms of Reference committee meetings held in 2010 and the attendance record of the Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and work of individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of ad-hoc Directors meetings, sub-committees of the Board and Membership Board Committees were held.
The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Bedell-Pearce.
The Non-executive Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
Director meetings Audit, without Risk & Members of the Remuneration Committee: management Compliance Remuneration Nomination Board present Committee Committee Committee Keith Bedell-Pearce appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Jeff Number of meetings Medlock appointed on 1 March 2011, Derham ONeill appointed held 2010 2009 7 7 2 2 5 4 6 6 2 2 on 1 March 2011, Kieran Poynter appointed on 3 February 2011, Nick MacAndrew 71 2 and Gerhard Roggemann.
Alain Grisay 7 Brian Larcombe served as the Chairman of the Committee Keith Bedell-Pearce 72 562 throughout 2010 and up until his removal from the Board on Brian Larcombe 62 562 3 February 2011.
David Logan 7 Jeff Medlock 7 2 Attendees at the Remuneration Committee Kieran Poynter 7 2 5 Nick MacAndrew, the Companys former Chairman, Alain Grisay, the Gerhard Roggemann 72 542 Chief Executive and the Group Head of Human Resources attended all meetings of the Committee in 2010.
Mr Medlock also attended all Board Roles Committee meetings in 2010.
Chairman Activities and work of the Committee The Chairman of the Company is Edward Bramson.
As Chairman, The Board is ultimately accountable for the Groups remuneration Mr Bramson is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring policy but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
the effective running and management of the Board.
The role profile The Remuneration Committee has resolved the following key issues of the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities: during the year: Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes Revised the remuneration policy and ensured that it meets the account of the issues and concerns of each Board member requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code to the extent and that members of the Board receive accurate, timely and applicable to the Company : clear information on the Company and related matters to Recommended the remuneration of the Executive Directors to enable them to monitor the Groups performance and take the Board: sound decisions.
Reviewed and approved the remuneration of the Executive Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and Committee and FSA Code staff: ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors.
Approved that the performance targets in relation to long-term awards require no amendment at this stage: Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a formal induction and development process, including any Overseen the Companys remuneration policy as it applies to relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors executives, senior management and employees, including the and the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the discretionary cash bonus scheme and awards under the longBoards effectiveness.
term incentive schemes: Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Verified that the remuneration policy does not encourage Non-executive Directors and an effective contribution from excessive risk beyond that of the appetite of the Company: all Directors.
Completed the annual review of the Committee Terms of The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the Reference.
Non-executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior For the Board Independent Director.
Keith Bedell-Pearce Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 April 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 29 F&C Asset Management Directors Report on Corporate Governance Governance 29 Chief Executive Directors and Directors re-election The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay.
As Chief The Directors who served at any time during the year ended Executive, Mr Grisay is responsible for overseeing the 31 December 2010 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing Report on page 36.
Details of the Executive Directors service strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Groups business contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment can activities and ensuring the effective running of the business and the be found on page 36.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association, any Director who has held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs Non-executive Directors of the Company and who did not retire at them, shall retire from Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Brindle, Medlock, ONeill, Poynter and office and may offer himself for re-appointment.
As Mr Roggemann Roggemann are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As Nonhas expressed his intention to retire on conclusion of the Annual executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting General Meeting, Mr Medlock is the only Director required to retire entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance by rotation at this AGM.
Mr Medlock, being eligible, will offer himself within a framework of prudent and effective controls: constructively for re-election.
challenging and helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2010, the objectives: reviewing management performance: determining Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to the appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration proposed re-election of Mr Medlock, given that he is currently Remuneration Committee members, taking a prime role in serving in his third three-year term of appointment.
It has been appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors: agreed that Mr Medlock will seek annual re-election from setting the Companys values and standards to ensure its shareholders.
It was agreed during 2009 that Mr Bedell-Pearce obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met: and would seek annual re-election from shareholders as he is serving in reviewing communication with shareholders.
As a result of Eurekos ordinary shareholding in the Company falling Board evaluation and professional development below 10 per cent.
the provision providing Eureko with the right, A comprehensive and rigorous external evaluation of the under the Corporate Governance Agreement entered into with the performance of the Board, its principal Committees and the Company in 2004, to appoint a Director to the Board expired.
As a Chairman was conducted during the year.
Each director was result of this change and having determined that Mr Medlocks interviewed by representatives from the external evaluator to extract independence has been demonstrated through the integrity, their views on the perceived composition, operation and objectivity and professionalism that he contributes to Board effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The results of this discussions and debates, the Nomination Committee and the process were presented to the Board and areas of improvement Board determined that Mr Medlock be considered an independent were identified.
All recommendations made by the external evaluator Non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2011. were accepted by the Board and the majority were addressed in early 2011.
Any remaining recommendations will be addressed In accordance with Sherbornes letter to the Companys during 2011. shareholders ahead of the General Meeting held in February, Mr Bramson, the Companys Chairman, will stand for re-election The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new annually and accordingly will offer himself for re-election at the AGM.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The composition of the Board, and has confirmed that all Directors induction process and ongoing professional development is submitting themselves for re-election demonstrate the commitment facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the and devote sufficient time to perform their duties as members of individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of the Board.
The Company Secretary also The Nomination Committee believes that all Directors submitting assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to themselves for re-election should be re-elected and can confirm that develop familiarity with the Companys business operations.
all Non-executive Directors display the qualities expected of an Directors conflicts of interest effective Non-executive Director.
From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or can be found on page 21. possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 30 30 Governance Directors Report on Corporate Governance F&C Asset Management The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to Board succession planning provide effective control within the Group and accord with the The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Boards Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by a skills profile, Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal projected and expected normal retirements, and the Companys Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the commitment to corporate governance best practice.
The plan is Turnbull Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place approved annually by the Board.
throughout the year and up to 6 April 2011, the date of approval of Relations with shareholders the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
A high-level overview The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring of the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is are given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual Control environment understanding of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of the year end and interim results: the Senior Independent Director the business.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend these meetings.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company standards of business conduct.
provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order the Company.
The structure is designed to provide clear responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the Groups business.
separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is Chairmen.
The results of the votes cast at the Annual General devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly Meeting are posted on the Companys website.
delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the The Companys former Chairman and the Companys Senior systems of internal controls within the Groups business.
Independent Director and Chief Executive met with a number of the Companys largest shareholders early in 2011 to present the Business risks Companys response to Sherbornes requisition for a General The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board Meeting.
The feedback from these meetings was presented to the in conjunction with management and procedures to control these Directors.
Unattributable feedback from a number of the Companys risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
shareholders, facilitated by the Companys brokers, is also presented to the Board following managements year-end Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business, results presentations.
These quarterly reports include issues of material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Executive Electronic communications Committee which includes both Executive Directors.
All significant Copies of the 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, The key risks facing the Group at the year-end and the mitigating press releases and announcements are available on the Companys website.
Shareholders are encouraged to take advantage of the actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review on page 10. provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
Monitoring and corrective action Internal control There is a formal compliance function which, during 2010, was The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
integrated with the internal audit function and operational risk function to form an Audit, Risk & Compliance department.
The Managements role is to implement and operate the Board policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal control is Audit, Risk & Compliance department conducts regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a plan agreed annually with the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
Any issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board by the Audit, Risk & not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
Compliance department and through the regular reporting process.
The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied with Planned corrective actions are independently monitored for timely the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended completion and reviewed by the Audit, Risk & Compliance 31 December 2010.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 31 F&C Asset Management Directors Report on Corporate Governance Governance 31 The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness The performance, independence, competence and cost of the of the operation of this framework at least twice each year.
auditors are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the Independence of the auditors provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups auditors meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of their work will depend on the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance was impaired on these grounds.
In maintaining a clear perception of Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading independence and balancing that with the best interests of the practice.
The last competitive audit tender exercise was undertaken Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering in 2006. the award of non-audit work to the Groups auditors.
The policy During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are applied during 2010 is detailed below.
independent of KPMG, the external auditors, provided non-audit The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups related services to the Group.
Details of fees paid to these firms auditors undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to during 2010 are disclosed in Note 4 c on page 58 of the have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a Consolidated Financial Statements.
manner that affords value for money while taking into account Future developments relevant ethical guidance.
The firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, The Board believes that the controls in place during 2010 have been competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed of the Group.
to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the Auditors of the Company are permitted to perform non-audit work in requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
areas where, in the opinion of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for them to do so and there are no By order of the Board, actual or perceived independence issues.
W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is Secretary authorised to approve the use of auditors for non-audit work 80 George Street provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate Edinburgh EH2 3BU value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
6 April 2011 In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is required.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
