Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in The Board place a framework for corporate governance which it The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
Companys affairs and for promoting the long term This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the success of the Company.
It delegates through the Directors Report.
Management Agreement and through specific instructions the day to day management of the AIC Code Company to the Manager, FIL Investments International.
The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has The Company has no executives or employees.
All considered the principles and recommendations of the matters not delegated to the Manager are reserved for AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by the Boards decision.
Matters reserved for the Board reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for include, inter alia, decisions on strategy, management, Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles gearing, financial reporting, risk management, set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as investment performance, share price discount, corporate setting out additional principles and recommendations governance, Board appointments and the appointment on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
The The Board considers that reporting against the principles Companys investment policy is detailed on page 16. and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined The Board currently consists of five non-executive Code will provide better information to shareholders.
Directors, four of whom are independent of the The AIC Code and the AIC Guide may be found at Companys Manager and are considered to be free from www.
co. uk any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders judgement.
The Board follow a procedure of notification for good governance and considers that the Company of other interests that may arise as part of considering has complied with the recommendations of the AIC any potential conflicts.
Mr Robinson, the Senior Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Independent Director, fulfils the role as a sounding Combined Code and associated disclosure requirements board for the Chairman and as intermediary for other of the Listing Rules except as set out below.
The non-executive Directors where necessary.
Combined Code includes provisions relating to: Mr Fraser was an employee of the Manager until the end the role of the chief executive of December 2008 and is therefore not independent.
executive directors remuneration The Board believes it to be an important aspect of the the need for an internal audit function corporate governance of an investment trust company that there should be links with the Manager to ensure For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the that the Manager is party to the responsibility, authority preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers and accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
The that these provisions are not relevant to the position of Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Fidelity European Values PLC, being an externally Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and managed investment company.
therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
In common with most investment trusts there is no chief executive as the management function has been The Company has no separate Nomination & delegated as set out above and is supervised by the Remuneration Committee and in this respect does not Chairman and the Board.
The independent Directors comply with the Combined Code principle A.
4 and the form the membership of the Audit Committee and the equivalent AIC Code principle.
The reasons for nonManagement Engagement Committee.
Senior Independent Director and Chairman of References to the Companys compliance with the the Audit Committee additional requirements incorporated in the UK Mr Robinson was appointed to these roles following the Corporate Governance Code and the revised AIC Code 2010 Annual General Meeting when Mr van der Klugt and AIC Guide, all of which were published in 2010 assumed the role of Chairman.
which apply for the Companys future reporting years, but have been adopted by the Board earlier than Board balance required, are included in the body of the report.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company and length of service to discharge its duties and provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
In particular they Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement Regular Board Audit Committee Management Engagement Meetings Meetings Committee Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Duckworth, DL 5 5 3 3 1 1 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 4 5 2 3 1 1 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 1 1 1 Robert Walther 3 3 1 1 1 1 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals 1 Retired 19 May 2010 have a wide knowledge and experience of fund key source of regular information for the Board, the management, investment trust management and contents of which are determined by the Board and business in Europe.
Biographical details of all the contain sufficient information on the financial condition Directors are given on pages 14 and 15 of this report.
Dr Niblett was appointed to the Board on 14 January 2010.
Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
The Board has delegated certain of its corporate Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to governance responsibilities to the Audit and pursue matters referred from the Board and the Management Engagement Committees, each Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly composed of all the independent Directors.
without representatives of the Manager being present.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all Changes to the Board times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind All appointments to the Board and replacements of and quite independently of any other associations.
It Directors take place in accordance with the Companies endeavours to provide leadership in terms of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
The direction of the Company.
Company complies with the requirements of the AIC Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
Whilst The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to the independent Directors take the lead in the discharge its duties effectively and the table above gives appointment of new Directors, any proposal for a new the attendance record for the formal meetings held Director will be discussed and approved by the whole during the year.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
External consultants are used to identify The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the The Board carries out its candidate search against a set advice and services of the Company Secretary through of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due its appointed representative who is responsible to the regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed including gender.
and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors take independent professional advice, at the Companys are available for inspection at the registered office of the expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Company and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Supply and agenda of information The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a Changes to the Companys Articles of culture of openness and debate, for ensuring that the Association Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must and for ensuring that there is adequate time available for be made by special resolution.
the discussion of agenda items, particularly strategic issues.
The Board receives in due time information in a Training form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or discharge its duties.
The Board meeting papers are the she is provided with all relevant information regarding Page 26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Statement the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities performance of the Board and action is taken on the as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will receive an basis of the results.
induction, spending some time with representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will become familiar The Board is seeking externally facilitated evaluation for with the various processes which the Manager considers future years.
necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy is Directors remuneration to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole training courses on matters which are directly relevant to Board and therefore a separate Remuneration their involvement with the Company and the Chairman Committee has not been appointed.
reviews and agrees with development and training needs with each Director.
The Directors also receive Directors do not vote on their own fees.
Board regular briefings from, among others, the AIC, the evaluations will be externally facilitated in the future Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any and the Board will appoint an appropriate service proposed developments or changes in law or regulations provider in due course.
These fees take into account the that could affect the Company and or the Directors.
responsibilities, commitment and work involved for the Directors together with the levels of remuneration Election and re-election paid by similar companies.
Since all Directors are As required by company law, all newly appointed non-executive, the Company is not required to comply Directors stand for election by the shareholders at the with the principles of the Combined Code in respect of Annual General Meeting following their appointment by executive directors remuneration.
Directors fees are the Board.
Annual re-election of all Directors will be disclosed fully in the Annual Report see the Directors required from the Companys next year end due to the Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Levels of Companys membership of the FTSE 350, however the fees are considered to be competitive and sufficient Board has decided to introduce annual re-election with to attract and retain the standard of Directors needed to effect from this years Annual General Meeting in support manage the Company successfully.
The limit on of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance.
Biographical aggregate fees is governed by the Companys Articles of details can be found on pages 14 and 15.
Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged has been put in place whereby formal letters of and the Directors share interests are disclosed on page appointment, which specify the terms of appointment, 21 of the Directors Report.
The Directors do not receive are issued to new Directors on appointment and to performance related remuneration.
existing Directors as they retire and are subject to reelection at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board does ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT not believe that the period of time a person may serve Financial reporting as a Director should be limited.
Set out on page 24 is a statement by the Directors of their responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the Performance evaluation annual report and financial statements.
The Auditor has A formal and rigorous process for the evaluation of the set out its reporting responsibilities within the Board, its Committees and its Directors has been put in Independent Auditors Report on page 33.
The Board place and takes place regularly.
The process includes has a responsibility to present a balanced and regular discussion and regular written questionnaires, understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other although the format may change from time to time to price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, ensure that the Board does not become complacent in as well as to provide information required to be fulfilling a box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, presented by statutory requirements.
All such reports are interviews are held.
The performance and contribution to reviewed and approved by the Board prior to their issue the Company of each Director holding office during the to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
year to 31 December 2010 have been considered.
It has been concluded that in each case the Directors have Going concern been effective and that they continue to demonstrate The Companys business activities, together with the commitment to their roles.
The candidature of the factors likely to affect its future development, Directors seeking re-election has been endorsed by the performance and position are set out in the Business Board as a whole which commends their re-election to Review on pages 16 to 19.
The financial position of the shareholders.
The performance of the Chairman is Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing evaluated by the Board in the Chairmans absence on an facilities are described in the financial statements and annual basis.
The Company Secretary and Portfolio Notes thereto on pages 34 to 51.
The Companys Manager also participate in parts of these processes to objectives, policies and processes for managing its provide all-round feedback to the Board.
The results of capital, financial risk objectives, details and financial these evaluations are discussed by the Board and the instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk process is considered to be constructive in terms of are also set out on pages 18 and 19 and in the Notes to identifying areas for improving the functioning and the financial statements on pages 46 to 51.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which and the Managers and other third party suppliers risk are readily realisable.
Where outsourcing arrangements management processes.
The key element of this are in place, including registrar and custodian services, assessment is the internal controls report prepared by alternative providers are readily available.
As a the Manager for its investment trust clients.
The internal consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is controls report sets out the Managers control policies well placed to manage its business risks successfully and procedures with respect to the management of its despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Whilst the Company, in common with most investment trusts, has no internal audit The Board receives regular reports from the Manager function, the effectiveness of these controls is monitored and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the by the Managers internal audit department.
The Audit Company has adequate resources to continue in Committee receives and reviews the internal controls operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus report on the effectiveness of the internal controls they continue to adopt the going concern basis of maintained on behalf of the Company and an annual accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
compliance report from the Managers Head of UK Compliance and European Risk.
The next continuation vote will be put to the shareholders at that this years Annual General Meeting.
By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with the FRCs internal guidance, the Internal control Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of Managers internal controls systems throughout the internal control and reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board also receives each year from the Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, Manager a report on the Managers internal controls including the Manager, the management of the which includes a report from the Managers reporting investment portfolio, the custodial services which accountants on the control procedures in operation include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration around the investment management and administration services and the day to day accounting and company processes.
By means of the procedures set out above secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was and in accordance with the FRCs internal guidance, the entered into after full and proper consideration by the Directors have established an ongoing process for Board of the quality and cost of services offered identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks including the control systems in operation in so far as faced by the Company.
they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys systems of Whistle-blowing procedure internal control on a regular basis.
Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good service pursuant to the Management Agreement The identification, control and evaluation of risks includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise identified covering financial, operational and compliance concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy matters is formulated by a series of quarterly investment or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity is committed performance reports, internal controls reports and to providing the highest level of service to its customers quarterly compliance reports as provided by the and to applying the highest standards of quality, honesty, Manager.
This process is in accordance with the FRCs integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to Internal control: Revised Guidance of Directors on the encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to Combined Code, has been in place for the year ended assist the Company in tackling fraud, corruption and 31 December 2010, continued to be in place up to the other malpractice within the organisation and in setting date of the approval of these financial statements and is standards of ethical conduct.
This policy is endorsed expected to remain in place for the coming year.
systems of internal control are designed to manage and reduce rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve Audit Committee and Auditor business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement Directors and is chaired by Mr Robinson.
The Board also determines the nature and extent Klugt is a member of the Audit Committee because the of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its Board believes it to be appropriate for all independent strategic objectives.
Directors to have such responsibility.
The Committee meets three times a year and considers that collectively The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial of the Manager and receives reports on the quality and experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The effectiveness of the accounting records and Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in management information maintained on behalf of the its written terms of reference which are available on the Company.
It reviews the annual and half-yearly financial Companys pages of the Managers website.
These statements and the nature and scope and findings of the include responsibility for reviewing the half-yearly report statutory audit.
The Board carries out a risk and control and annual report and financial statements, reviewing assessment including a review of the corporate strategy the scope and results of the audit and the effectiveness Page 28 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Statement and cost of the audit process and reviewing the and audit partners change at least once every five years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
They also include responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors independence and The Committee also reviews corporate governance objectivity with particular regard to the provision of nonissues, the existence and performance of all controls audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK operating in the Company including the adherence to professional and regulatory requirements and to Section 1159 status, the relationship with and the consider the risks associated with audit firms performance of third party service providers such as the withdrawing from the market.
No work other than the Registrar and Custodian.
audit was carried out by the Companys Auditor during the year.
The Audit Committee of the Board meets the Management Engagement Committee Auditor at least once a year to review these and other The Management Engagement Committee consists of appropriate matters.
In the year to 31 December 2010 all of the independent Directors and is chaired by Mr van the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by der Klugt.
The Committee is charged with reviewing and inter alia: monitoring the performance of the Manager and ensuring that the terms of the Companys Management Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly Agreement are competitive and reasonable for financial statements prior to Board approval and shareholders.
This Committee meets annually and reviewing the external Auditors report on the annual reports to the Board of Directors, making financial statements: recommendations where appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference may be found on the Companys Determining the appropriateness of the Companys pages of the Managers website.
accounting policies: The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by Reviewing and recommending the audit fee and the Management Engagement Committee: it relates to reviewing any non-audit fees payable to the the investment management function, on which a Companys external Auditor: percentage of the funds under management is paid.
The management fee was renegotiated to include a Reviewing the external Auditors terms of performance related element with effect from 1 January engagement including the appointment, 2007. reappointment or removal of the Auditor as appropriate: The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the performance of the Manager are set out Evaluating the external Auditors plan for the audit of below: the Companys financial statements: Quality of team the skills and particularly the Reviewing the external Auditors quality control experience of the team involved in managing all procedures: aspects of the Companys business: Assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust external audit process and the external Auditors business generally and to the Company in particular: independence and objectivity: Managing the Company in running and controlling Considering the scope of work undertaken by the the administration, the accounting and the Managers internal audit department: secretaryship of the Company: Reviewing reports on risk and internal controls and Investment management portfolio management reporting to the Board: skills, experience and track record and other investment related considerations including gearing, Considering and reconfirming that it does not need currencies, hedging, buybacks etc: an internal audit function given that the Company delegates its day to day operations to third parties: Shareholders shareholder consciousness and and relations, discount management and commitment to the Companys goals: and Recommending the appointment or reappointment of the external Auditor.
Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice periods and duties.
The last review of alternative audit service providers took place in 2006 resulting in a change of audit firm.
The The Committee met on 12 January 2011 and reviewed Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each year the performance of the Manager for the year to Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 29 Corporate Governance Statement 31 December 2010.
The Committee noted the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to Companys good long term performance record and the answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
commitment, quality and continuity of the team which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days that the appointment of the Manager should continue.
Details of the Management Agreement appear on pages 20 and 21.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to Responsibility as institutional shareholder the Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of in the Directors Report on pages 19 to 23 because it is Ownership in relation to investments.
These principles information which refers to events that have taken place include the pursuit of an active investment policy during the course of the year.
through portfolio management decisions, voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a The following is a list of that information: continuing dialogue with the management of investee Directors shareholdings companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, Directors and Officers liability insurance expressly declares that it supports the Financial Substantial share interests Reporting Councils Stewardship Code setting out the Share capital responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Share issues Share repurchases Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
co. uk On behalf of the Board Relations with shareholders The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors have meetings with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The shareholder Humphrey van der Klugt profile of the Company is regularly monitored and the 7 March 2011 Board liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and communicate views to shareholders.
The Company is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
It is believed that institutional shareholders have proper access to the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on pages 14 and 58.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of the Manager.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 54 to 56 sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions dealing with special business are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 22 and 23.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the Annual Report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the Page 30 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2010
