Business review focus on managing risk, delivering common standards and processes and Group overview building personnel and technological capability for the future.
The Exploration division is accountable for renewing our resource base through access, exploration and appraisal activities.
The Developments division is accountable for the safe and compliant execution of wells drilling and completions and major projects.
The Production division is accountable for safe and compliant operations, including upstream production assets, midstream transportation and processing activities, and the development of our resource base.
Divisional activities are integrated on a regional basis Our organization by a regional president reporting to the Production division.
Refining and Marketings activities include the supply and trading, BP is one of the worlds leading international oil refining, manufacturing, marketing and transportation of crude oil, a and gas companies.
We operate or market our petroleum and petrochemicals products and related services.
The segment comprises a number of strategic performance units SPUs, which are products in more than 80 countries, providing our organized along either geographic or activity-related lines.
Each SPU is of customers with fuel for transportation, energy for a scale that allows for a close focus on performance delivery, starting with safety, and includes the appropriate management of operating and heat and light, retail services and petrochemicals financial parameters.
Our group functions and regions support the work of our segments and businesses.
The key objectives of the functions are to establish and As a global group, our interests and activities are held or operated through monitor fit-for-purpose functional standards across the group: to act as subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities or associates established in and centres of deep functional expertise: to access significant leverage with subject to the laws and regulations of many different jurisdictions.
These third-party suppliers: and to establish and maintain capabilities among the interests and activities covered two business segments in 2010: functional staff employed within our operating businesses.
In addition, the Exploration and Production and Refining and Marketing.
BPs activities in head of each region provides the required cross-segment integration and low-carbon energy are managed through our Alternative Energy business, co-ordination of group activities in a particular geographic area and which is reported within Other businesses and corporate.
represents BP to external parties.
Exploration and Productions activities include oil and natural gas In June 2010, following the Gulf of Mexico incident, we established exploration, field development and production: midstream transportation, the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO and subsequently storage and processing: and the marketing and trading of natural gas, equipped it with dedicated resources and capabilities to manage all aspects including liquefied natural gas LNG, together with power and natural gas of our response to the accident.
This organization reports directly to the liquids NGLs.
During the fourth quarter of 2010, as part of our wider group chief executive and is overseen by a specific new board committee.
response to the Gulf of Mexico incident, we decided to reorganize our Among the changes we have made following the Gulf of Mexico Exploration and Production segment to create three global functional incident, we have redefined and strengthened the scope and accountabilities divisions: Exploration, Developments, and Production, integrated of the group function for safety and operations, creating an enhanced, through a Strategy and Integration organization.
This is designed to independent Safety and Operational Risk S&OR function, to oversee and fundamentally change the way the segment operates, with a particular audit the companys operations around the world.
The function has its own a On the basis of market capitalization, proved reserves and production.
expert staff embedded in BPs operating units, including exploration projects Exploration and Production BPs major areas of operation in 2010 BP subsidiary Equity-accounted entity Location where all, or the majority of, our operations were disposed during 2010 or held for sale at 31 December 2010 14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
