Directors remuneration report 2011 remuneration policy Part 2 Executive directors The basic principles that guide remuneration policy for executive directors in BP include: remuneration A substantial portion of executive remuneration should be linked to success in implementing the companys business strategy to 2010 remuneration maximize long-term shareholder value.
The structure of pay should reflect the long-term nature of BPs business and the significance of safety and environmental risks.
Salary Performance conditions for variable pay should be set independently Mr Dudleys salary was increased to $1,700,000 on his promotion to by the committee at the outset of each year and assessed by the group chief executive in October 2010.
The London accommodation committee both quantitatively and qualitatively at the end of each provided to him ceased at the end of 2010.
No other executive director performance period.
Performance assessment should take into account material changes in the market environment predominantly oil prices and BPs Annual bonus competitive position primarily vis--vis other oil majors.
The 2010 annual bonus results were dramatically affected by the Gulf of Salaries should be reviewed annually, in the context of the total Mexico accident.
In the judgement of the committee and the group chief quantum of pay, and taking into account both external market and executive this overrode the normal metrics for bonus outcomes.
indicated in the table on page 112, no bonus was paid to Mr Dudley, Executives should develop and be required to hold a significant Dr Hayward or Mr Inglis for 2010.
Mr Conn and Dr Grote similarly received shareholding as this represents the best way to align their interests no bonus for their group portion and were limited to an on-target level for with those of shareholders.
their segment functional portion accounting for 30% of their overall The remuneration committee will actively seek to understand bonus opportunity.
Both of these met or exceeded targets and made shareholder preferences and be as transparent as possible in important contributions to the stabilization of the business following the explaining its remuneration policy and practices.
The total bonus to Mr Conn was 310,500 and to Dr Grote The majority of total remuneration is long term and varies with $621,000.
Of the total for each, one-third is paid in cash, one-third is performance, with the largest elements share based, further aligning deferred on a mandatory basis and one-third is paid either in cash or interests with shareholders.
voluntarily deferred at the individuals discretion.
These amounts are The committee reviews the pay policy and levels for executives shown in the table on page 112. below board, as well as pay and conditions of employees throughout the group.
These are considered when determining executive directors Deferred bonus remuneration.
One-third of the bonus awarded to Dr Grote and Mr Conn is deferred into shares on a mandatory basis under the terms of the deferred bonus Salary element.
Their deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis and will The committee normally reviews salaries annually, taking into account vest in three years contingent on an assessment of safety and other large Europe-based global companies as well as relevant US environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
These groups are each defined and analysed by the Both individuals may elect to defer an additional third into shares committees independent remuneration advisers.
on the same basis as the mandatory deferral.
Mr Dudleys current salary of $1,700,000 will remain unchanged All deferred bonuses are converted to shares based on an average in 2011.
Both Mr Conn and Dr Grote, who last received salary increases price of BP shares over the three days following the companys in July 2008, will have their salaries increased effective 1 April 2011. announcement of 2010 results 4.84 share, $46.68 ADS.
2008-2010 share element Results for the 2008-2010 share element were also strongly affected by Annual bonus the Gulf of Mexico accident.
BPs Total Shareholder Return TSR for the Bonus measures and levels of eligibility are set at the start of the year three-year period was lowest among the peer group of oil majors.
The for the senior leadership including executive directors.
The approach for companys underlying performance relative to the peer group actually 2011 aligns closely with the group template for reinforcing safety and remained quite strong on the metrics historically used to test the fairness risk management, rebuilding trust and reinforcing value creation.
The committee felt, however, that because of the is a balance of long-term and near-term objectives weighted towards seriousness of the Gulf of Mexico accident, the TSR ranking was an the top priorities of risk identification and management, safety and appropriate result.
No shares, therefore, vested under the plan for any compliance, and talent and capability development.
Group measures for executive director.
executive directors will focus on: Safety and operational risk metrics including full implementation of the S&OR functional model.
Short-term performance including key financial and operating metrics.
Long-term performance including progress on key projects and reserves replacement.
People including a new performance and reward framework.
114 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Mr Dudleys bonus in 2011 will be based entirely on group measures.
Performance conditions Mr Conn and Dr Grote will have 70% of their bonus based on group Performance conditions for the 2011-2013 share element will be aligned measures and 30% on the results of their respective segments.
For with the strategic agenda that has evolved in response to last years Mr Conn these will include refining availability, safety and cost efficiency.
This focuses on value creation, reinforcing safety and risk For Dr Grote they will focus on functional costs and succession.
As in past years, in addition to the specific bonus metrics, the Vesting of shares will be based 50% on BPs total shareholder committee will also review the underlying performance of the group in light return TSR compared to the other oil majors, reflecting the central of the overall business plan, competitors results, analysts reports and the importance of restoring the value of the company.
A further 20% will be views of the chairmen of the other committees.
based on the reserves replacement ratio, also relative to the other oil Based on this broader view, the committee can decide to reduce majors, reflecting a central element of value creation.
The final 30% will be bonuses where this is warranted and, in exceptional circumstances, to pay based on a set of strategic imperatives for rebuilding trust: in particular, no bonuses.
reinforcing safety and risk management culture, rebuilding BPs external reputation, and reinforcing staff alignment and morale.
Deferred bonus For the relative measures, TSR and the reserve replacement ratio, One-third of the annual bonus will be deferred into shares for three years the comparator group will consist of ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, and matched by the company on a one-for-one basis.
Under the rules of the ConocoPhillips and Chevron.
This group can be altered if circumstances plan, the average share price over the three days following announcement change, for example, if there is significant consolidation in the industry.
of full-year results is used to determine the number of shares.
Both While a narrow group, it continues to represent the comparators that both deferred and matched shares will vest contingent on an assessment of shareholders and management use in assessing relative performance.
safety and environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
The TSR will be calculated as the share price performance over the If the committee assesses that there has been a material deterioration in three-year period, assuming dividends are re-invested.
All share prices will safety and environmental metrics, or there have been major incidents be averaged over the three-month period before the beginning and end of revealing underlying weaknesses in safety and environmental the performance period.
They will be measured in US dollars.
The reserve management, then it may conclude that shares should vest in part, or not replacement ratio is defined according to industry standard specifications at all.
In reaching its conclusion, the committee will obtain advice from the and its calculation is audited.
safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC.
As in previous years, the methodology used for the relative Executive directors may voluntarily defer a further one-third of their measures will rank each of the five competitors on each measure.
BPs annual bonus into shares, which will be capable of vesting, and will qualify performance will then be compared to the other five.
Performance shares for matching, on the same basis as set out above.
for each component will vest at levels of 100%, 70% and 35% Where shares vest, the executive director will also receive respectively, for performance equivalent to first, second and third rank.
No additional shares representing the value of the re-invested dividends.
shares will vest for fourth or fifth place.
For performance between second This structure of deferred bonuses, paid in shares, places increased and third or first and second, the vesting percentage will be interpolated focus on long-term alignment and reinforces the critical importance of based on BPs performance relative to the company ranked directly above maintaining high safety and environmental standards.
The remaining 30% of vesting will be based on a balanced Performance shares scorecard of strategic imperatives.
These will comprise safety and risk The share element of the EDIP has been a feature of the plan, with some management culture, external reputation, and internal staff alignment and modifications, since its inception in 2000.
The maximum number of shares morale.
For each of these, specific metrics derived from externally that can be awarded will be 5.5 times salary for the group chief executive tabulated surveys will be used to track progress.
This evidence will be used and four times salary for the other executive directors.
by the committee, along with input from the other board committees, to Performance shares will only vest to the extent that a performance judge performance on each metric.
The results will be explained in the condition is met, as described under performance conditions.
In addition, subsequent directors remuneration report.
the committee will have an overriding discretion, in exceptional The committee considers that this combination of quantitative and circumstances relating to either the company or a particular participant to qualitative measures reflects the long-term value creation priorities of the reduce the number of shares that vest or to provide that no shares vest.
company as well as the key underpinnings for business sustainability.
As in The compulsory retention period will also be decided by the previous years, the committee may exercise its discretion, in a reasonable committee and will not normally be less than three years.
Together with the and informed manner, to adjust vesting levels upwards or downwards if it performance period, this gives executive directors a six-year incentive concludes that the formulaic approach does not reflect the true underlying structure, which is designed to ensure their interests are aligned with those health and performance of BPs business relative to its peers.
It will explain of shareholders.
any adjustments in the directors remuneration report following vesting, in Where shares vest, the executive director will receive additional line with its commitment to transparency.
shares representing the value of the re-invested dividends.
The committees policy, reflected in the EDIP, continues to be that each executive director builds a significant personal shareholding, with a target of shares equivalent in value to five times salary, within a reasonable time from appointment as an executive director.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 115 Directors remuneration report Pensions US directors Executive directors are eligible to participate in the appropriate pension Mr Dudley and Dr Grote participate in the US BP Retirement Accumulation schemes applying in their home countries.
Details are set out in the Plan US pension plan, which features a cash balance formula.
benefits are provided through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit restoration plans, consistent with US tax regulations UK directors as applicable.
In addition, Mr Dudley retains the heritage Amoco retirement UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
The core plan, which provides benefits on a final average pay formula of 1.67% of benefits under this scheme are non-contributory.
They include a pension highest average earnings base pay plus bonus in accordance with standard accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of service, up to a maximum US practice for each year of service, reduced by 1.5% of the primary social of two-thirds of final basic salary and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of security benefit for each year of service.
The higher benefit of the plans the members pension.
The scheme pension is not integrated with state produced by the two formulas will be payable and this is currently the pension benefits.
benefit determined under the Amoco heritage terms.
The rules of the BP Pension Scheme were amended in 2006 such In addition, BP provides a Supplemental Executive Retirement that the normal retirement age is 65.
Prior to 1 December 2006, scheme Benefits Plan supplemental plan, which is a non-qualified arrangement members could retire on or after age 60 without reduction.
Special early that became effective on 1 January 2002 for US employees with salary retirement terms apply to pre-1 December 2006 service for members with above a specified salary grade level.
Mr Dudley and Dr Grote are eligible to long service as at 1 December 2006. participate under the supplemental plan.
The benefit formula is a target Pension benefits in excess of the individual lifetime allowance set of 1.3% of final average earnings base pay plus bonus for each year by legislation are paid via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement of service, inclusive of all other BP US qualified and non-qualified provided directly by the company.
This benefit is unfunded and therefore paid from In the light of the reduced annual allowance tax regime being corporate assets.
implemented from April 2011, the company is considering alternative Their pension accrual for 2010, shown in the table below, takes approaches to the provision of pension benefits for future service for UK into account the total amount that could be payable under relevant plans.
directors and other senior staff impacted by the change.
Although Mr Inglis was, like other UK directors, a member of the Other benefits BP Pension Scheme, his participation gave rise to a US federal tax liability Executive directors are eligible to participate in regular employee benefit as he was based in Houston.
During 2010, pursuant to a tax equalization plans and in all-employee share saving schemes applying in their home arrangement that applied in respect of the period since Mr Inglis became countries.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
BP provided a director in February 2007, under his international assignment accommodation in London for Mr Dudley and for Mr Inglis during 2010. arrangements, the committee approved the discharge of this US tax liability This provision ceased for both individuals at the end of 2010. amounting to $1.26 million in respect of 2010.
This figure included an element in respect of the additional value of Mr Ingliss accrued pension as a result of crystallization of early retirement rights on the termination of his employment with BP.
a Pensions information subject to audit thousand Additional pension Accrued pension earned during the Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less b b Service at entitlement year ended accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by a 31 Dec 2010 at 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2010 at 31 Dec 2009 A at 31 Dec 2010 B the director in 2010 R W Dudley US 31 years $704 $298 $4,353 $10,336 $5,983 I C Conn UK 25 years 287 12 4,508 5,373 865 Dr B E Grote US 31 years $1,281 $270 $12,047 $16,501 $4,454 Directors leaving the board in 2010 c Dr A B Hayward UK 29 years 605 21 10,840 13,677 2,837 c A G Inglis UK 30 years 349 12 6,000 7,633 1,633 a Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 2.4% for UK directors and 1.5% for US directors.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the actuarial profession.
c Figures are calculated to end of 2010.
For awards under the 2007-2009 and 2008-2010 plans, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
For awards under the 2009-2011 plan, performance conditions are measured 50% on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron and 50% on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance.
For the awards under the 2010-2012 plan, performance conditions are measured one third on TSR against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, ConocoPhillips and Chevron and two thirds on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents awards of shares made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan and includes re-invested dividends on the shares awarded.
c Dr Grote and Mr Dudley receive awards in the form of ADSs.
The above numbers reflect calculated equivalents in ordinary shares.
d Restricted award under share element of EDIP.
As reported in the 2007 directors remuneration report in February 2008, the committee awarded both Mr Inglis and Mr Conn restricted shares, as set out above.
These one-off awards will vest on the third and fifth anniversary of the award, dependent on the remuneration committee being satisfied as to their personal performance at the date of vesting.
Any unvested tranche will lapse in the event of cessation of employment with the company.
Mr Inglis left the company on 31 December 2010 and accordingly his restricted awards lapsed.
e Potential maximum of performance shares has been reduced to reflect actual service during performance period on a pro-rated basis.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 117
