Business review Business review Fulfilling our commitments and earning back trust following the Our strategy Gulf of Mexico incident BP has committed to pay all legitimate claims by individuals, businesses Delivering stability, restoring trust and value.
and governments and has established a $20-billion trust fund, following consultation with the US government, to provide funds for that purpose.
In 2010 has been a very challenging year for BP and there remains much to addition, BP is working with federal and state agencies to assess the be done to address the repercussions of the tragic Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
nature and extent of the impact on natural resources resulting from the BP is committed to the restoration of the Gulf of Mexico coastline and its Gulf of Mexico incident.
Based on the assessment, federal and state communities.
BP will manage its liabilities arising from this deeply trustees will prepare plans to restore, rehabilitate, replace or acquire the regretted accident and is committed to learn and share the lessons from equivalent of injured resources under their trusteeship.
The Oil Pollution Act the incident.
Above all, we will work with regulators and industry globally to 1990 OPA 90 provides for restoration to a baseline condition, which is the reduce the risk of this happening again.
condition the resources would have been in if the incident had not BPs immediate priority beyond the Gulf is to regain the trust of our occurred.
The assessment will also be used to identify any compensation stakeholders by demonstrating that we understand and can manage the that may be required for the loss of the resources, prior to restoration.
inherent risks across our whole portfolio.
From there, we seek to rebuild value for our shareholders by re-establishing our competitive position within Reinstating a dividend in line with the circumstances of the the sector.
company, as part of a conservative financial framework BP believes that we can emerge from the shadow of the Gulf of BP will continue to invest with the aim of growing the company and Mexico incident a safer, more risk-aware business.
Our strategy, which will shareholder value, sustainably and through the business cycle.
We intend continue to evolve over 2011, will remain focused on creating value for to underpin this with a conservative capital structure, which allows the shareholders through safe, responsible exploration, development and flexibility to execute strategy while remaining resilient to the inherent production of fossil fuel resources because the world needs them: the volatility of the business.
We will endeavour to actively manage day-to-day manufacture, processing and delivery of better and more advanced liquidity in order to meet the cash needs of the business, while maintaining products: and participation in the transition to a lower carbon future.
the net debt ratio within a lower range of 10% to 20%.
On 1 February Our intention is to re-establish all necessary permissions to 2011, we announced that quarterly dividend payments would resume.
The operate in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and sustain business momentum quarterly dividend to be paid in March 2011 is 7 cents per share.
The board outside of the Gulf: to restore value and growth through a rigorous focus believes this is an affordable and sustainable level which will allow the on our portfolio of high-quality assets: to develop our people to ensure company to meet its commitments while continuing to invest in the we have the right competencies and behaviours where they are needed: business for growth and value.
to learn and implement the lessons from the Gulf of Mexico and rigorously focus on the processes that will deliver safe and reliable operations Delivering the right high-quality portfolio and continuous improvement: and do so within a clear, conservative As part of the response to the Gulf of Mexico incident, we announced and financial framework.
are progressing disposals that are expected to deliver around $30 billion in proceeds over 2010 and 2011.
During 2010, BP has successfully realized A safer, more risk-aware business premium values for upstream and downstream assets as part of the Our employees, investors, regulators and government partners expect us programme.
See Acquisitions and disposals on page 24.
The disposal to put safety and operational integrity above all other concerns.
We intend programme has been an opportunity to further upgrade and focus our to build on our existing strengths to systematically manage operating risk portfolio and we intend to retain a capacity to reinvest, to acquire assets by improving our understanding of risk exposure and taking the appropriate that enhance strategy and our portfolio on both a planned and an action to mitigate risk.
Wherever we operate, we must embed the opportunistic basis through 2011. disciplined application of standards within BPs operating management system OMS, as a single framework for all BP operations.
See Safety on page 68 for further information on our OMS.
We will demand independent checks and balances at multiple levels to provide better decision making and transparent governance of standards, capability, compliance and risk management.
To effect this we have created a more powerful safety and operational risk function, independent of the business line and deployed into each operating entity across the BP portfolio.
For further information on our safety priorities and performance, see Corporate responsibility Safety on pages 68-71.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 19 Business review The right people, skills, capability and incentivization Leveraging technology as we look further ahead It is vital that we develop and deploy people with the skills, capability and As discussed under Our market on pages 16-18 of this report, we expect determination required to meet our objectives.
There remains, in our that the world will require a more diverse energy mix as the basis for a industry, a continuing shortage of professionals such as petroleum secure supply of energy over time.
We intend to play a central role in engineers and scientists, driven by changing demographics.
Nonetheless, meeting the worlds continued need for hydrocarbons, with our Exploration we have thus far been successful in building this capacity and we are and Production and Refining and Marketing activities remaining at the core committed to building and deploying capability with a strong safety and risk of our strategy.
We are also creating long-term options for the future in new management culture, including revised reward mechanisms to foster energy technology and low-carbon energy businesses.
We believe that this professional pride in engineering, health, safety, security, the environment focused portfolio has the potential to be a material source of value creation and operations.
We are also enhancing our capabilities in natural The creation of a more powerful S&OR function represents a gas, which may prove to be a vital source of relatively clean energy during significant change that will strengthen our processes and capabilities in the transition to a lower-carbon economy and beyond.
We intend to lead, safety and risk management.
In Exploration and Production, we have support and shape this transition while working to achieve sector-leading reorganized the segment into three functional divisions Exploration, levels of return for shareholders.
Developments and Production each of which reports directly to the group chief executive.
The intent is clear, to focus expertise and capability on a more concentrated asset base to reduce operational risk and deliver long-run sustainable improvement.
In each division and across the rest of the group we will continue to develop group leadership and senior management teams, and focus recruitment on individuals with strong operational and technical expertise.
Focus on exploration and high-quality earnings Through our strategy we aim to deliver value growth for shareholders by investing in our Exploration and Production business and safer operations everywhere, while at the same time enhancing efficiency and growing high-quality earnings and returns throughout all our operations.
In Exploration and Production, our priority is to ensure safe, reliable and compliant operations worldwide.
Our strategy is to invest to grow long-term value by continuing to build a portfolio of enduring positions in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins with a focus on deepwater, gas including unconventional gas and giant fields.
Our strategy is enabled by continuously reducing operating risk, strong relationships built on mutual advantage, deep knowledge of the basins in which we operate, and technology, together with building capability along the value chain in Exploration, Developments and Production.
We are increasing investment in Exploration, a key source of value creation at the front end of the value chain, and we are evolving the nature of our relationships, particularly with national oil companies.
We will also continue to actively manage our portfolio, with a focus on value growth.
In Refining and Marketing, our strategy is to hold a portfolio of quality, efficient and integrated manufacturing and marketing positions underpinned by safe operations, leading technologies and strong brands.
We will continue to access market growth opportunities in the emerging markets and intend to grow our international businesses.
Over time we expect to shift capital employed from mature to high-growth regions.
In Alternative Energy, our strategy is to build material low-carbon energy businesses that are aligned with BPs core capabilities.
In biofuels we are building advantaged positions in low-cost sustainable feedstocks such as Brazilian sugar cane, the lignocellulosic conversion of energy grasses in the US and the development of advantaged fuel molecules such as biobutanol.
In the low-carbon power business we are building out our US wind portfolio and continue to grow our solar business.
We continue to develop our capability in carbon capture and storage.
20 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
