Corporate governance Corporate governance In order to ensure that lessons learnt from the event are embedded into Corporate governance practices the controls in the Operating Management System of the company, the company is undertaking a significant exercise to implement the In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The recommendations of the BPs Investigation Report, and consider other significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices as a reports and investigations into the incident.
UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US The board established an additional committee, the Gulf of Mexico companies are listed as follows: committee, to engage with management on a regular basis to monitor the response to the Gulf of Mexico spill and the management of risks arising Independence from the incident.
BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which reflect In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based approach to enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys risk management corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes determinations and internal control systems in accordance with the Internal Control of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
Revised Guidance for Directors Turnbull.
BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive Subject to determining any additional appropriate actions arising directors be determined by the board to be independent in character and from items still in process, the board is satisfied that, where significant judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could failings or weaknesses in internal controls were identified during the year, materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board has appropriate remedial actions were taken or are being taken.
determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into UK Corporate Governance Code compliance consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs BP complied throughout 2010 with the provisions of the UK Corporate listing standards.
Governance Code, except in the following aspects: B.
3.2 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time commitments Committees since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors are purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive board on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
D. 2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is not set by the remuneration BP also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US committee.
Instead, the chairmans remuneration is reviewed by the companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed remuneration committee, who makes a recommendation to the solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be board as a whole for final approval, within the limits set by independent, in the manner described above.
The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board BP also complied with the June 2008 Combined Code, with the committee reports on pages 97-104.
BP has not, therefore, adopted exception of A.
2.2 remuneration of the separate charters for each committee.
chairman for the same reasons as outlined above for the UK Corporate Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, Governance Code.
BP is required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the independent auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or related financial management expertise.
As reported in BP Annual Report on Form 20-F, the board determined that Douglas Flint possessed such expertise and also possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see Audit committee report on page 97.
Upon Mr Flints retirement in April 2011, Mr Nelson will become the audit committee financial expert as defined in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed definition of what are considered material revisions.
Code of ethics The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, officers and employees.
BP has adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has board governance principles that address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial officers as required by the SEC.
BP considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 105
