Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders Since 1987, Atlantic Richfield Company Atlantic Richfield, a subsidiary of BP is also in settlement negotiations with EPA to resolve alleged CAA BP, has been named as a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the violations at the Whiting, Toledo, Carson and Cherry Point refineries.
US alleging injury to persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
An application was brought in the English High Court on 1 February The majority of the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against 2011 by Alfa Petroleum Holdings Limited and OGIP Ventures Limited Atlantic Richfield.
Atlantic Richfield is named in these lawsuits as alleged against BP International Limited and BP Russian Investments Limited successor to International Smelting and Refining and another company that alleging breach of the shareholders agreement on the part of BP and manufactured lead pigment during the period 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include seeking an interim injunction restraining BP from taking steps to conclude, individuals and governmental entities.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be implement or perform the previously announced transactions with Rosneft class actions.
The lawsuits seek various remedies including compensation Oil Company relating to oil and gas exploration, production, refining and to lead-poisoned children, cost to find and remove lead paint from buildings, marketing in Russia.
Those transactions include the issue or transfer of medical monitoring and screening programmes, public warning and shares between Rosneft Oil Company and any BP group company.
The education of lead hazards, reimbursement of government healthcare costs court granted an interim order restraining BP from taking any further steps and special education for lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No in relation to the Rosneft transactions pending an expedited UNCITRAL lawsuit against Atlantic Richfield has been settled nor has Atlantic Richfield arbitration procedure in accordance with the Shareholders Agreement been subject to a final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts between the parties.
claimed and, if such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the The arbitration has commenced and the injunction has been remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not extended until 11 March 2011 pending an expedited hearing in relation to possible to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richfield matters in dispute between the parties on a final basis during the week believes that it has valid defences.
It intends to defend such actions commencing 7 March 2011.
The expedited hearing will decide, among vigorously and believes that the incurrence of liability is remote.
other matters, whether the injunction will be extended beyond Consequently, BP believes that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups 11 March 2011. results, financial position or liquidity will not be material.
On 9 February 2011, Apache Canada Ltd commenced an arbitration On 8 March 2010, OSHA issued citations to BPs Toledo refinery against BP Canada Energy.
Apache alleges that in the future various of the alleging violations of the Process Safety Management Standard, with sites that it acquired from BP Canada Energy pursuant to the parties July penalties of approximately $3 million.
These citations resulted from an 2010 Purchase and Sale Agreement will have to have work carried out to inspection conducted pursuant to OSHAs Petroleum Refinery Process bring the sites into compliance with applicable Alberta environmental laws, Safety Management National Emphasis Program.
BP Products has and Apache Canada Ltd claims that the purchase price should be adjusted contested the citations, and the matter is currently before the OSH Review for its estimated possible costs.
BP Canada Energy denies such costs will Commission which has assigned an Administrative Law Judge for purposes arise or require any adjustment to the purchase price.
The process of of mediation.
selecting the arbitrator has begun.
No hearing dates have been set.
BP is the operator and 56% interest owner of the Atlantis unit in production in the Gulf of Mexico.
In April 2009, Kenneth Abbott, as relator, filed a US False Claims Act lawsuit against BP, alleging that BP violated Relationships with suppliers federal regulations, and made false statements in connection with its and contractors compliance with those regulations, by failing to have necessary documentation for the Atlantis subsea and other systems.
That complaint Essential contracts was unsealed in May 2010 and served on BP in June 2010.
In September BP has contractual and other arrangements with numerous third parties in 2010, Kenneth Abbott and Food & Water Watch filed an amended support of its business activities.
This report does not contain information complaint in the False Claims Act lawsuit seeking an injunction shutting about any of these third parties as none of our arrangements with them are down the Atlantis platform.
considered to be essential to the business of BP.
BP Products US refineries are subject to a 2001 consent decree with the EPA that resolved alleged violations of the CAA, and Suppliers and contractors implementation of the decrees requirements continues.
A 2009 Our processes are designed to enable us to choose suppliers carefully on amendment to the decree resolves remaining alleged air violations at the merit, avoiding conflicts of interest and inappropriate gifts and Texas City refinery through the payment of a $12-million civil fine, a entertainment.
We expect suppliers to comply with legal requirements and $6-million supplemental environmental project and enhanced CAA we seek to do business with suppliers who act in line with BPs compliance measures estimated to cost approximately $150 million.
The commitments to compliance and ethics, as outlined in our code of conduct.
fine has been paid, and BP Products is implementing the other provisions.
We engage with suppliers in a variety of ways, including performance On 30 September 2010, the EPA and BP Products lodged a civil review meetings to identify mutually advantageous ways to improve consent decree with the federal court in Houston.
comment period, the federal court approved the settlement on 30 December 2010.
The decree resolves allegations of civil violations of the Creditor payment policy and practice risk management planning regulations promulgated under the CAA that are Statutory regulations issued under the UK Companies Act 2006 require alleged to have occurred in 2004 and 2005 at the Texas City refinery.
The companies to make a statement of their policy and practice in respect of agreement requires that BP Products pays a $15-million civil penalty and the payment of trade creditors.
In view of the international nature of the that the Texas City refinery enhance reporting to the EPA regarding groups operations there is no specific group-wide policy in respect of employee training, equipment inspection and incident investigation.
Relationships with suppliers are, however, governed Various environmental groups and the EPA have challenged certain by the groups policy commitment to long-term relationships founded on aspects of the operating permit issued by the Indiana Department of trust and mutual advantage.
Within this overall policy, individual operating Environmental Management IDEM for upgrades to the Whiting refinery.
companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their In response to these challenges, the IDEM has reviewed the permits and business transactions and ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of responded formally to the EPA.
The EPA, either through the IDEM or payment.
directly, can cause the permit to be modified, reissued, terminated or revoked.
BP is in discussions with the EPA and the IDEM over these and other CAA issues relating to the Whiting refinery.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 133
