Corporate Governance Statement Corporate governance is the process by which a board companies and their shareholders, the composition of of directors of a company looks after the shareholders investment trust boards of directors must be largely interests and by which it endeavours to enhance those independent of management.
However, it must have the interests often referred to as shareholder value.
knowledge and experience of both fund management Shareholders hold the directors responsible for the and investment trust management, which the presence stewardship of a companys affairs, delegating authority of executive management on other commercial boards to the directors to manage the company on their behalf brings to their corporate governance.
Fidelity Special and holding them accountable for its performance.
Values PLC was established and is managed and promoted by its Manager, which is therefore one of This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, the main reasons shareholders choose to invest in explains how the Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC the Companys shares.
deal with that responsibility, authority and accountability.
It follows that it is an important aspect of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS corporate governance of Fidelity Special Values PLC Part of the London Stock Exchanges Listing Rules is that its Manager should be party to the responsibility, the requirement for all listed companies to set out a authority and accountability to those investing in statement in their annual reports on how they comply their management.
or if not explain why not with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Because investment trust companies THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES differ in many ways from conventional operating AND MODUS OPERANDI OF FIDELITY SPECIAL companies, the Association of Investment Companies VALUES PLC has drawn up its own set of guidelines the AIC Code of The corporate governance of any investment trust Corporate Governance which meet with the approval company, while following the guidelines of the AIC of the Financial Reporting Council and which form the Code of Corporate Governance, will vary in certain basis of Fidelity Special Values own compliance.
respects depending on its own circumstances.
The Board of Fidelity Special Values PLC has considered its To add to that the Disclosure and Transparency Rules own circumstances and determined its own corporate DTR, require that certain extra information be reported governance policies and modus operandi.
in the corporate governance statement.
Because some of it is not relevant to a charter of the general principles In this section we have outlined the corporate and practice of the Boards governance of the Company governance policies and modus operandi through the purpose of a corporate governance statement, that the following three aspects of corporate governance: information has been set out in detail in the Directors Responsibility, Authority and Accountability.
It is first of Report on pages 20 to 26.
A section of this statement at all important that shareholders have confidence in the the end, entitled Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Board of Directors, whom they hold responsible and provides a list of the information that is required and accountable for the Companys affairs.
where it can be found in the Directors Report.
In determining the guidelines for the composition of the There are 21 principles which form the substance Board, the Directors believe that there should be a clear of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance.
The majority of the Board members including the Chairman, complete details of how your Company has adopted who are independent of management, and that the them are provided in its corporate governance schedule make up of the Board should bring understanding and which is available for inspection by shareholders and experience of investment management, investment trust investors at the Companys registered office, Fidelitys management, the investment objective of the Company, Investor Centre and on the website.
This takes each of marketing, general business experience and finally of the detailed points in the AICs Code of Corporate Fidelitys investment philosophy and its operations.
Governance and sets out exactly how the Board has chosen to respond to those points.
This report contains a While the key determinant of independent behaviour summary of how the Board has adopted these principles.
stems from personal character, the Directors recognise that any individual who is employed by or otherwise THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF materially financially associated with the Manager, FIL AN INVESTMENT TRUST COMPANY Investments International, cannot be regarded as The corporate governance of most investment trust independent.
However, the Board regards it as helpful companies, including Fidelity Special Values PLC, is to have one senior executive from FIL Investments different from most other commercial companies in International serving as a Director.
Other relationships one important respect: they do not employ their own or time served as a Director are not regarded prima people as management but rather the services of a facie as compromising independent behaviour but fund management company.
This affects the way may nevertheless be of interest to shareholders and investment trusts are governed but not the purpose of consequently the details and the Directors current their governance.
Given that the Managers business is business associations are set out on pages 16 and 17 for not dedicated solely to the interests of investment trust shareholders perusal.
All of the independent Directors Page 28 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Statement are considered to be free from any business or other 1.
The stewardship of the affairs of the Company, which relationship which could materially interfere with the includes the management of risk and the monitoring exercise of their independent judgement and all of the of the controls at work in the Company: Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and 2.
The promotion of the Companys prosperity so as effectively.
The Board follows a procedure of notification to endeavour to maximise shareholder value in the of other interests that may arise as part of considering long term, which includes the responsibility for the any potential conflicts.
appropriateness of the Companys investment objective, investment strategy and investment All of the Directors are non-executive and five of the six performance and for the Companys efforts in have no relationship with the Manager.
In addition the seeking to minimise the level and the volatility of Board appointed Ben Thomson as Senior Independent the discount or premium at which the shares may Director on 12 July 2010.
The Senior Independent sell in relation to the net asset value.
The Companys Director fulfils the role as a sounding board for the investment policy is detailed on pages 18 and 20: Chairman and as intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
Making recommendations to shareholders for their consideration at annual general meetings Each Directors individual independence, including on matters not delegated to the Board of Directors, that of the Chairman, has been considered, taking which include the approval of the annual financial into consideration: statements, the election and re-election of Directors and the appointment of the Auditor.
integrity, selflessness, intelligent scepticism but not cynicism, positiveness, courageousness and The Board believes that a good working relationship decisiveness: comes from the Board and management working independence of mind and character: harmoniously together: in particular the Board should experience and knowledge of investment trusts, of support the Manager in difficult times but challenge the investment business generally and of Fidelity: it when necessary: it is a sine qua non to good financial literacy: performance.
conflicts of interest: and performance as a Director.
Authority The Board of Directors is furnished by the shareholders Based on the above considerations all five non-Fidelity with the authority to manage the Company on their Directors, including the Chairman, have been assessed behalf, being required to discharge the responsibilities and are considered to be independent.
The Board, being wholly non-executive and by majority independent of management, carries Tenure, the term served by a director of a company, is out its duties through the mechanism of Board meetings a controversial issue.
It is the belief of the Board that it and Board Committee meetings.
The most important can best do its job if it works as a team composed of aspect of the Directors duties concerns the individuals who work well together, if each contributes management of the Companys portfolio of assets and to its performance.
In order to do so it believes that its of the risk profile of its balance sheet.
While the day to membership benefits from the inclusion of both day investment management is delegated to FIL Directors who have served a long time and bring both Investments International, there are certain decisions experience and past knowledge of the Company and which are retained and made by the Directors, including its business to its governance and also include newer the payment of dividends, the share buyback guidelines members who bring additional further attributes to the and the derivatives and gearing policies.
In structuring the Board meetings, the Directors try to Recognising that different shareholders have different concentrate as much as possible of their regular Board views on tenure, the Board decided in 2004 that each meetings on i investment matters including strategy, Director would be subject to annual re-election by investment policy, gearing and derivatives policies, shareholders.
portfolio and stock reviews, portfolio turnover, monitoring performance etc and ii shareholder value The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to matters including monitoring the discount, share discharge its duties efficiently.
The attendance record for buybacks and Fidelitys Investment Trust Share Plan the meetings held in the year can be found in the and ISA marketing.
The contents of the Board meeting Directors Report on page 23. papers are determined by the Board itself and contain sufficient information on the financial condition of the Responsibility Company.
Key representatives of the Manager attend The responsibilities delegated by shareholders to the each Board meeting enabling the Board to probe Board of Directors include: further on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 29 Corporate Governance Statement The Board meets at least once a year with the The level of remuneration of the Manager is determined Companys financial advisers and stockbrokers to by the Management Engagement Committee: the fee discuss shareholder value and investor relation issues relates to the investment management function, on while the Manager meets with the larger shareholders which a percentage of funds under management is at least once a year and reports back to the Board on paid thereby relating this part of its remuneration those meetings.
to performance and a set fee for the administrative function.
The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate governance responsibilities through The Board of Directors is mindful that the amounts three Committees: paid to the Manager should be sufficient to ensure that both the Portfolio Manager and the administrators The Audit Committee within the management house appointed to the job The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent of looking after its affairs are highly skilled and that Directors and is charged with reviewing and monitoring those individuals should be largely focused on the the production of the annual and half-yearly financial Companys business.
statements, the audit process, corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls The criteria which are taken into consideration in operating in the Company including the adherence reviewing the performance of the Manager are set to Section 1159 formerly Section 842 status, the out below.
relationship with and performance of other third party service providers such as the Registrars or theQuality of team the skills and particularly the Custodian, considering the risks associated with audit experience of the team involved in managing all firms withdrawing from the market and the relationship aspects of the Companys business: with the independent Auditor and its ongoingCommitment of the Manager to the investment trust appointment and level of fees.
Finally it also has business generally and to the Company in particular: responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the externalManaging the Company in running and controlling Auditors independence and objectivity with particular the administration, the accounting and the regard to the provision of non-audit services, taking in secretaryship of the Company: consideration relevant UK professional and regulatoryInvestment management portfolio management requirements, including the appointment, reappointment skills, experience and track record and other or removal of the Auditor as appropriate.
investment related considerations including gearing, currencies, use of derivatives, hedging, share The Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each buybacks etc: year and the audit partners change at least once everyShareholders shareholder consciousness and five years.
The last review of alternative audit service relations, discount management and commitment providers took place in 2006 resulting in a change in to the Companys goals: and audit firm.
There are no contractual obligations thatManagement Agreement consideration of fees, restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
The notice periods and duties.
Committee meets with the independent Auditor at least once a year to review all these matters.
The The Nomination and Remuneration Committee Committee itself meets at least twice a year and reports The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, chaired to the Board of Directors, making recommendations by Lynn Ruddick, consists of all the Directors and is where appropriate.
charged with: The continued increase in the scope and in the technical 1. nominating new Directors for consideration by nature of the work of the Committee means that its the Board of Directors, in turn for approval by Chairman must have and does have recent and shareholders: relevant financial experience.
Lynn Ruddick chaired this 2. consideration of the re-appointment of Directors: and Committee until 26 October 2010 when Sharon Brown 3. the level of remuneration of the non-executive took on the chairmanship.
The Management Engagement Committee In respect of new Directors the Board believes that it The Management Engagement Committee is chaired is important in the search for, the interview of and by Lynn Ruddick and consists of all of the independent recommendation to the Board of a candidate to be Directors.
It is charged with reviewing and monitoring controlled by the independent Directors who in turn form the performance of the Manager in respect of its the majority of this Committee.
After consideration of the contract and the fees it is paid.
attributes considered necessary for the appointment of a new Director, members of the Committee recommend This Committee meets at least once a year and reports a number of candidates for consideration as a Director to the Board of Directors, making recommendations of the Company.
In the event that insufficient suitable where appropriate.
candidates are identified, an external consultant would be used.
Page 30 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Statement During the last year this approach led to a very high constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving quality list of seven candidates being interviewed.
The the functioning and performance of the Board and reason for this review was the retirement at the last AGM action is taken on the basis of the results.
of Sir Richard Brooke and the retirement during this year of our past Chairman, Alex Hammond-Chambers.
As a Each Committee has written terms of reference consequence two new Board members were appointed: which are available for inspection at the Companys Andy Irvine and Sharon Brown, whose credentials are set registered office and on the Companys pages of the out on pages 16 and 17 and who offer themselves for Managers website.
election by the shareholders at this years AGM.
Accountability When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or Given that the shareholders entrust the Board of she is provided with all relevant information regarding Directors with the management of the Companys the Company and his or her duties and responsibilities affairs, it is necessary that the Board accounts for itself as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will receive an to shareholders.
The process of accountability involves induction, spending some time with representatives of providing all the necessary information for shareholders the Manager whereby he or she will become familiar to make judgements about the Boards stewardship and with the various processes which the Manager considers performance through a full and informative annual necessary for the performance of its duties and financial report, a half-yearly financial report, interim responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy management statements, accessibility to the Board at is to encourage Directors to keep up to date and attend any time through the office of the Chairman and finally training courses on matters which are directly relevant to the presentation of the results the financial statements their involvement with the Company and the Chairman and future prospects at the AGM.
reviews and agrees development and training needs with each Director.
The Directors also receive regular The AGM is the pivotal point in the relationship briefings from, among others, the AIC, the Auditor and between the Board of Directors and shareholders and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed is the occasion when the Board accounts for itself in developments or changes in law or regulations that public meeting.
It regards any bona fide issue that any could affect the Company and or the Directors.
shareholder raises as one that should be put to all shareholders at the AGM so that all those attending can It is the policy of the Board for all Directors to retire hear any concerns expressed in open forum and make and seek re-election at each annual general meeting their own judgement accordingly.
The AGM provides of the Company.
Biographical details for each Director shareholders with an opportunity to vote on certain are set out on pages 16 and 17 to provide sufficient issues that are not ultimately delegated to the Board information to enable shareholders to make an informed of Directors.
This includes the re-election of Directors decision regarding their election or re-election.
In every year in addition to the normal matters of addition, the terms and conditions of appointment of approving the financial statements, the appointment Directors are available for inspection at the registered of the independent Auditor, the issue of new shares and office of the Company and will be available prior to the the buyback of shares for cancellation.
Your Board has forthcoming AGM.
an established policy that should enable shareholders to decide whether they wish to continue the Companys Regarding remuneration, the Committee considers the existence by putting a continuation vote before the remit of the job and the responsibility and time involved.
shareholders at every third AGM.
The next such vote will It also makes itself aware of the directors fees of other be at the AGM to be held in 2010, the last being at the investment trust companies.
The non-executive AGM held on 13 December 2007.
Directors remuneration is fixed as a rate for the role and or the roles undertaken.
The level of Directors The Company Secretary fees is considered and recommended by the Board The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The within the limit governed by the Articles of Association.
appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for The Directors do not receive performance related the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the remuneration.
The Director from FIL Investments advice and services of the Company Secretary through International waives her fee.
its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed A formal and rigorous annual process for the evaluation and that applicable rules and regulations are complied of the Board and its Committees is in place.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to the form of written questionnaires and, if appropriate, take independent professional advice, at the Companys interviews.
The performance of the Chairman is expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
evaluated by the other Directors on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary and Manager also participate AIC CODE in these processes to provide all round feedback to the The Board of Fidelity Special Values PLC has considered Board.
The results of these evaluations are issued to and the principles and recommendations of the Association discussed by the Board.
The process is considered to be of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010 Page 31 Corporate Governance Statement Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Board and the Manager and regular reports on controls Corporate Governance Guide the AIC Guide.
The and compliance issues are provided to the Audit AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses Committee and the Board.
In carrying out its review, the all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Audit Committee has had regard to the activities of the Code as well as setting out additional principles and Manager, the Managers compliance and risk functions recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance and the external Auditor.
The Audit Committees and to the Company.
The AIC Code and the AIC Guide may Boards review also includes consideration of internal be found at www.
controls and similar reports issued by the Manager and other service providers.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined function.
In keeping with most other investment trust Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
companies the Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Manager, including The Company has complied with the recommendations its internal audit function, provide sufficient assurance of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the The Nomination Committee and Management Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Engagement Committee are chaired by the Chairman Audit Committee meets the Managers Head of Internal of the Board.
Audit at least twice a year.
The Chairman of the Audit The Combined Code includes provisions relating Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of to the role of the chief executive, executive directors Internal Audit and vice versa.
remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES As already stated in the second section of this Corporate For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and the Government Statement entitled Corporate Governance preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers Requirements, certain extra information is required to that these issues are not relevant to the position of be given.
Because some of it is information which refers Fidelity Special Values PLC, being an externally managed to events that have taken place during the course of the investment company.
The Company has therefore not year, it has been placed in the Directors Report on reported further in respect of these provisions.
pages 22 to 25 along with other information that also relates to events that have taken place during the course INTERNAL CONTROL of the year.
The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Its The following is a list of that information: review takes place at least once a year.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk Information concerning the service of the Directors of failure to achieve business objectives and can only on the Board and changes to the Companys Articles provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against of Association material misstatement or loss.
The Board also Attendance at Board and Committee meetings determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing Directors shareholdings to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Going concern The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process Substantial share interests for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys Share capital principal business and operational risks, that it has been Share issues in place for the year ended 31 August 2010 and up to Share repurchases the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder statements, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board Relations with Shareholders and accords with the FRCs Internal Control: Environmental, Employee, Social and Community Revised Guidance.
Further details are included at pages matters 20 to 22 of the Directors Report.
On behalf of the Board The Board is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company although these tasks have been delegated on a day to day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines Lynn Ruddick of accountability have been established between the 5 November 2010 Page 32 Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2010
