Corporate Governance Statement Introduction The Board has the right of veto over the The Board has considered the principles set out in the appointment of sub-managers recommended by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the approval of private equity and unlisted investments Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate and all investments in in-house funds managed or Governance the AIC Code.
The Board believes advised by the Manager.
that during the period under review the Company There is no chief executive position within has complied with the provisions of the Combined the Company, as day-to-day management of the Code, in so far as they relate to the Companys Companys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
business apart from the Chairmans membership of The following table sets out the number of Board the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
and committee meetings held and attended during This committee has responsibilities with regard to the year under review.
The Board held an Away-Day the fees payable to the Manager.
The Chairman meeting in November 2010 to consider strategic led the fee negotiations summarised on page 3. issues and also met in closed session on two These negotiations have been concluded and the occasions during the year, without any representation documentation is in the process of being completed.
All the Directors attended the On completion the Chairman will step down from Annual General Meeting.
The Board is also adhering to the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code.
Directors attendance Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Board No.
of meetings 10 4 3 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship 1 of the Companys affairs and has reviewed the M A Loveday 3 n a 1 2 schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which R Bone 10 n a 2 are categorised under various headings.
These M W Bunbury 10 4 3 include strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment S Burley 10 4 n a restrictions, performance, marketing, appointments, D Clementi 10 n a 3 3 the Board and public documents.
It has responsibility R J Gould 1 n a n a 4 for all corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, J Hewitt 4 1 n a share buyback policy and corporate governance C A Keljik 9 4 n a matters which are all reviewed regularly.
S J Fraser 10 4 3 In order to enable them to discharge their M C B Ward 10 n a 3 responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely 1 Retired as a Director on 6 May 2010.
2 Joined the Nomination Committee on 3 March 2010 access to relevant information.
At each meeting 3 Resigned as a Director on 27 January 2010.
4 Appointed as a Director on 15 September 2010. the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board Each Director has signed a terms of appointment monitors compliance with the Companys objectives letter with the Company, in each case including and is responsible for setting asset allocation, one months notice of termination by either party.
investment and gearing limits within which the Fund These are available for inspection at the Companys Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises registered office during normal business hours and the management of the investment portfolio which is are also available at annual general meetings.
contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board aims to maintain a balance of skills, experience, diversity, age and length of service Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
Investors in New Zealand through succession planning.
The Board is of should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of the view that length of service will not necessarily the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best compromise the independence or contribution of Practice Code.
