Corporate Governance Statement continued directors of an investment trust company, where Independence of Directors continuity and experience can add significantly to the The Board, which is composed solely of independent strength of the board.
In normal circumstances the non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the Directors are expected to serve for a nine year term, independence of its members.
All the Directors, and but this may be adjusted for reasons of flexibility and in particular Sir Michael Bunbury who has served for continuity.
thirteen years and is standing for annual re-election, have been assessed by the Board as remaining Board effectiveness independent of the Manager and of the Company A thorough appraisal of the Board, the Committees itself: none has a past or current connection with and the individual Directors is carried out by the Manager and each remains independent in the Chairman each year.
Simon Fraser, the new character and judgement with no relationships or Chairman, recommended external facilitation circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to support him in the review process for the year.
Independent consultants, Manchester Square Partners, were appointed for this purpose in Conflicts of interest November 2010.
The process included confidential, A company director has a statutory obligation to unattributable, one to one interviews between the avoid a situation in which he has, or potentially independent consultant and each Director.
The could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts Fund Manager, Head of Investment Trusts and the with the interests of the company a situational Company Secretary also participated to provide allconflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in round feedback to the Board.
The appraisal of the place for the authorisation and review of situational Chairman was covered as part of the process and conflicts relating to the Directors.
Limits can be led separately by the Senior Independent Director.
list of proposed objectives resulting from the findings Other than the formal authorisation of the was submitted to the Board in March 2011.
The Directors other directorships as situational conflicts, process will conclude with one-to-one meetings no authorisations have been sought.
These between the Chairman and each Director, and with authorisations were reviewed in January 2011, and agreement by the Board on a final list of priorities for each Director abstained from voting in respect of the year ahead.
The Directors are encouraged to attend relevant The review included Sir Michael Bunburys nontraining courses and seminars.
Directors are able executive chairmanship of HarbourVest Global Private to seek independent professional advice at the Equity Limited HVGPE.
HVGPE is a Guernsey Companys expense in relation to their duties.
No incorporated closed-end investment company listed such advice was taken during the year under review.
on the Specialist Fund Market of the London Stock The Board has direct access to company secretarial Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam.
HVGPE is advice and services of the Manager which, through advised by HarbourVest Advisers LP, an affiliate of the Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring HarbourVest Partners LLC, which also manages part that Board and Committee procedures are followed of the Companys private equity portfolio.
Sir Michael and applicable regulations are complied with.
The Bunbury is not a partner of, nor does he receive any proceedings at all Board and other meetings are fees from, HarbourVest Partners LLC.
fully recorded through a process that allows any Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors Directors concerns to be recorded in the minutes.
must also comply with the statutory rules requiring The Board has the power to appoint or remove the company directors to declare any interest in an Company Secretary in accordance with the terms of actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with the Management Agreement.
30 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
