BACK TO CONTENTS Audit Committee Report Summary of the role of the Composition of the Audit Committee the regulatory framework for the Groups Audit Committee businesses: and The Audit Committee is appointed by the The members of the Audit Committee at 30 Board.
The Audit Committees terms of June 2010 are: environmental and social responsibility reference include all matters indicated by the best practices.
Combined Code, and can be obtained from Date of the Groups website at http: www.
hName appointment Qualification The Board is satisfied that all of the l. co. uk investor-relations board-of-directors.
J Bloomer 18 September 2006 Chartered Committees members have recent and The terms of reference are considered accountant relevant commercial and financial knowledge annually by the Audit Committee and are M Evans 1 September 2006 Actuary and experience to satisfy the provisions of the then referred to the Board for approval.
J Davis 1 February 2008 Combined Code, by virtue of their having held various executive and non-executive roles in The Audit Committee is responsible for: Chris Barling was elected an additional investment management and business member on 26 August 2010 and Michael management.
The Group provides an monitoring the integrity of the financial Evans stood down on the same date.
induction programme for new Audit statements of the Group and any formal Committee members and ongoing training to announcements relating to the Groups Biographies for each director can be found at enable all of the Committee members to carry financial performance and reviewing page 18. out their duties.
The induction programme significant financial reporting judgements covers the role of the Audit Committee, its contained therein: During the year, the Committee comprised two terms of reference and expected time independent non-executive directors and the commitment by members: and an overview of reviewing the Groups internal financial non-executive chairman.
Two members the Groups business, including the main controls and, unless expressly addressed constitute a quorum.
Membership of the business and financial dynamics and risks.
by the Board itself, the Groups internal Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the New Committee members also meet some of control and risk management systems: Committee at regular intervals and any the Groups staff.
Ongoing training includes recommendations for new appointments are attendance at formal conferences, internal monitoring and reviewing the made to the Nomination Committee for onward company seminars and briefings by external effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit recommendation to the Board.
function: are for a period of three years and are extendable by no more than two additional three year Meetings making recommendations to the Board, periods.
The Audit Committee structure requires The Audit Committee is required to meet at for a resolution to be put to the the inclusion of one financially qualified member least three times per year and has an agenda shareholders for their approval in general as recognised by the Consultative Committee linked to events in the Groups financial meetings, in relation to the appointment of Accountancy Bodies.
The agenda is predominantly of the external auditors and the approval Committee Chairman fulfils this requirement.
cyclical and is therefore approved by the of the remuneration and terms of Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his or engagement of the external auditors: The Board expects the Audit Committee her fellow members.
Each Audit Committee members to have an understanding of: member has the right to require reports on reviewing and monitoring the external matters of interest in addition to the cyclical auditors independence and objectivity the principles of, contents of, and items.
and the effectiveness of the audit process, developments in financial reporting taking into consideration relevant UK including the applicable accounting The Audit Committee invites the Chief professional and regulatory requirements: standards and statements of Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of and recommended practice: Internal Audit, Group Compliance Director and senior representatives of the external developing and implementing a policy on key aspects of the Groups operations auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, the engagement of the external auditors to including corporate policies, Group although it reserves the right to request any of supply non-audit services, taking into financing, products and systems of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior account relevant guidance regarding the internal control: management are invited to present such provision of non-audit services by the reports as are required for the Committee to external audit firm.
matters that influence or distort the discharge its duties.
presentation of accounts and key figures: The Audit Committee is required to report its Overview of the actions taken by the findings to the Board, identifying any matters the principles of, and developments in, Audit Committee to discharge its in respect of which it considers that action or company law, sector-specific laws and duties improvement is needed, and make other relevant corporate legislation: During the 12 months to 30 June 2010 the recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Audit Committee has undertaken the the role of internal and external auditing following key responsibilities: and risk management: 27 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Audit Committee Report reviewed the financial statements in the ratified a review of Corporate Governance Having conducted a review of the 2009 reports and accounts and the and Risk Management arrangements independence and the effectiveness of the interim report issued in February 2010. across the Group undertaken by Internal external auditors the Audit Committee has As part of this review the Committee Audit: recommended to the Board that they are rereceived a report from the external appointed.
auditors on their audit of the annual undertaken an evaluation of the reports and accounts and review of the performance of the external auditors: Internal Audit function interim report: The Audit Committee is required to assist the received reports from the Head of Internal Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to received reports from the Groups Risk Audit on the work undertaken by Internal the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of Manager and considered the output from Audit and management responses to the Internal Audit department.
Having the Group-wide process used to identify, proposals made in the audit reports conducted a review of the Internal Audit evaluate and mitigate risks: issued by the function during the year: department the Committee is happy with their resources and plans.
reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups received presentations on the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in treasury and tax functions: The Audit Committee has also approved the the annual report and accounts on this Groups Whistleblowing Policy that contains matter: reviewed the Groups Internal Capital arrangements for the Head of Internal Audit Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP to receive, in confidence, complaints on reviewed and agreed the terms of report: and accounting, risk issues, internal controls, engagement of the audit work to be auditing issues and related matters for undertaken by the external auditors: reviewed its own effectiveness.
reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
considered a report from the external External auditors auditors on their observations of controls The Audit Committee is responsible for the Overview across the Group: development, implementation and As a result of its work during the year, the monitoring of the Groups policy on external Audit Committee has concluded that it has agreed the fees to be paid to the external audit.
The policy assigns oversight acted in accordance with its terms of auditors for their audit of the 2010 responsibility for monitoring the reference and has ensured the independence accounts and interim report and reviewed independence, objectivity and compliance and objectivity of the external auditors.
the confirmation of auditor with ethical and regulatory requirements to independence: the Audit Committee, and day to day The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be responsibility to the Group Finance Director.
available at the Annual General Meeting to undertaken an evaluation of the The policy states that the external auditors answer any questions about the work of the performance of the Internal Audit are jointly responsible to the Board and the Committee.
function: Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
Approval reviewed the qualification and experience This report was approved by the Audit of the Internal Audit department so that The Groups policy on external audit sets out Committee and signed on its behalf by: they can deliver an agreed programme of the categories of non-audit services which the work: external auditors will and will not be allowed Jonathan Davis to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis Member of the Audit Committee reviewed the level and nature of non-audit levels and Audit Committee Chairman 8 September 2010 activity performed by Internal Audit: approval.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 28
