BACK TO CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement In this section of our Annual Report and Accounts, we explain the key elements of the Group's corporate governance structure.
The directors of Hargreaves Lansdown plc are committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Statement of compliance with the chairman.
Whilst this does not comply with directors.
On 26 August 2010, Chris Barling Combined Code the Code, we believe the presence of the two was appointed as an additional independent During the year ended 30 June 2010, founders who are also the largest non-executive.
On the same date Ian Gorham Hargreaves Lansdown plc has applied the shareholders in the Company makes this a was appointed an executive director and principles and complied with the provisions very strong but not over-sized, board.
Stephen Lansdown stood down as an of Section 1 of the Combined Code on executive director and was appointed as a Corporate Governance the Code with the - Composition of the Remuneration and non-executive director.
following exceptions: Audit Committees Following the appointment of Michael Evans The Board is responsible to shareholders for - Independence of the Chairman on as Chairman on 1 December 2009, the the proper management of the Group.
All of appointment Company was no longer compliant with the the directors bring strong judgement to For the period up to 30 November 2009 the code in terms of having at least three Board deliberations.
The Board is of Chairman did not meet the independence independent non-executive directors on both sufficient size and diversity that the balance criteria set out in the Code since he was an the Remuneration and the Audit of skills and experience is considered to be executive director of the Company.
The Company became appropriate for the requirements of the Board considered that departure from the compliant following the appointment of business.
Combined Code in this area was appropriate Chris Barling as a new independent nonand gave its reasons for non-compliance executive on 26 August 2010 and his The Chairman is responsible for the both in the prospectus published as part of appointment to both these committees.
operation, leadership and governance of the the Companys Initial Public Offering, and in Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting subsequent Annual Reports.
With effect from The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, are its agenda.
The Chief Executive has executive 1 December 2009, the Group became required to review whether the above responsibilities for the operations, results compliant with this provision of the Code, statement reflects the Companys and strategic development of the Group.
following the appointment of Michael Evans compliance with the nine provisions of the Clear divisions of accountability and as non-executive Chairman.
Combined Code specified for its review by responsibility exist and operate effectively the Listing Rules and to report if it does not for these positions.
- Composition of the Board reflect such compliance.
No such report has Following the appointment of Michael Evans been made.
The Board requires all non-executive as Chairman on 1 December 2009, the directors to be independent in their Company was no longer compliant with the Details of how Hargreaves Lansdown judgement and free from any business or code in terms of having at least half of the complied with the Code are summarised in other relationship that could interfere with Board excluding the Chairman made up of this statement.
the exercise of objective judgement.
The doing so, the Board gives due regard to Nominations Committee determined that a Statement about applying the provision A.
The new independent non-executive director principles of the Code non-executive directors do not participate in should be appointed and conducted a search The Company has applied the principles set any of the Groups share option or other for a candidate who could bring skills and out in section 1 of the Code, including both incentive schemes.
experience to further complement the the main principles and the supporting existing board.
The appointment of Chris principles, by complying with the Code as The Board concludes that Michael Evans, Barling was subsequently made on 26 reported above.
Further explanation of how Jonathan Davis, and Jonathan Bloomer were August 2010.
On the same date Ian Gorham the principles and supporting principles independent directors throughout the was appointed an executive director and have been applied is set out below and in the financial year.
Stephen Lansdown, having stood down as directors remuneration report and Audit an executive director was appointed as a Committee report.
Biographies for the Board of directors, non-executive director, although under the including details of any other significant terms of the Code he cannot be deemed to be DIRECTORS directorships or appointments, are set out on independent.
The resultant board, with page 18. effect from 26 August 2010 comprised 3 Board of directors executive directors, 3 independent nonAs at 30 June 2010, the Board of Hargreaves Role of the Board executive directors, a non-independent nonLansdown comprised of 3 executive The Board determines the strategic direction executive director and a non-executive members and 3 independent non-executive of the Group and reviews operating, Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 22 BACK TO CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement financial and risk performance.
Terms of reference of the Audit, Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer decision-making body for all other matters Remuneration and Nomination Committee and its other members at 30 June 2010 were deemed material to the Group in strategic, are available on the Groups website Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
Chris financial and reputational terms.
Barling was elected as an additional member executive directors constructively challenge Details are set out below: on 26 August 2010.
The responsibilities of the management team and supplement the the Remuneration Committee and an executive directors' management expertise Audit Committee explanation of how it applies the directors with a diversity of business skills and The Audit Committee is responsible for remuneration principles of the Combined experience.
assisting the Board in discharging its Code, are set out in the directors responsibilities for financial reporting remuneration report.
The Board and its Committees meet including the integrity of the annual and regularly.
Formal minutes or reports of each interim reports, preliminary results and any The Nomination Committee of these meetings are circulated to the other formal announcements relating to The Nomination Committee leads the relevant members.
financial performance, risk reporting and process for Board appointments, re-election reviewing the Companys internal corporate and succession of directors and the The Board has delegated full authority to the control.
The Audit Committees primary Chairman.
It is responsible for making Executive Committee except for a list of responsibilities are to review the financial recommendations to the Board concerning matters which are reserved for decision by statements, to review the Groups internal the composition of the Board including the Board.
There is a formal schedule of control and risk management systems, to proposed appointees to the Board, whether those matters reserved to the Board, which consider the appointment of the external to fill any vacancies that may arise or to includes: auditors, their independence and reports to change the number of Board members.
the Committee, as well as to review the approval of corporate strategies and programme of Internal Audit.
The Committee is chaired by Jonathan objectives: Bloomer and its members at 30 June 2010 approval of interim and final financial The responsibilities of the Audit Committee were Michael Evans and Jonathan Davis.
results and payment of dividends: and an explanation of how it applies the Chris Barling was elected as an additional the appointment of directors: principles of the Combined Code, are set out member on 26 August 2010.
The Company approval of major capital or revenue in the Audit Committee report.
Secretary may also attend in her capacity as expenditure: Secretary of the Company.
The Nomination approval of forecasts and medium term The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Committee meets at least once each year.
plans: Bloomer and its other members at 30 June The Committee met four times during the approval of significant changes in the 2010 were Michael Evans and Jonathan year.
Group structure and product range: Davis.
Chris Barling was elected as an corporate governance matters.
additional member on 26 August 2010 and There is a formal, rigorous and transparent Michael Evans stood down on the same date.
procedure for the appointment of new directors The Board has delegated the day-to-day The Audit Committee meets at least three to the Board.
This process will involve the management of the Group to the Chief times each year but more frequently when Nomination Committee interviewing suitable Executive, who is supported by the executive required, and met five times during this candidates who are proposed by existing directors and senior executives.
On each occasion the Head of Board members, by an external search company, Executive and executive directors of the Internal Audit, Group Compliance Director, or via searches performed by the Company Group are responsible to the Board for Group Finance Director and Chief Executive itself.
Careful consideration will be given to developing strategy and the profitability and were invited to attend.
The external auditors ensure appointees have enough time available overall performance of the Group.
attended all of the meetings.
to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board Board responsibilities Remuneration Committee will be maintained.
When the Committee has The Board meets a minimum of four times The Remuneration Committee is responsible found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of each financial year to discuss matters such for the framework or broad policy for the fair the Committee will make a proposal to the as current performance, long term planning, remuneration of the Executive Directors of whole Board and the appointment is the material capital commitments and risk the Group as well as their performance responsibility of the whole Board following management.
These will be determined with recommendation from the Committee.
months, meetings of the Executive due regard to the interests of the Company Committee are held and minutes from the and the Shareholders.
It monitors the levels Under the existing Articles of Association all meetings are circulated to the Board.
and structure of remuneration for senior directors have to submit themselves for remanagement and seeks to ensure that they election at least every three years if they wish Board committees are designed to attract, retain and motivate to continue serving and are considered by the There are a number of Committees of the the Executive Directors needed to run the Board to be eligible.
In order to be able to Board to which various matters are Company successfully.
comply with the new UK Code of Corporate delegated.
The Committees all have formal Governance, however, all directors will need Terms of Reference that have been approved The Remuneration Committee meets at least to be re-elected on an annual basis.
In order to by the Board, and performance of the twice during each financial year, and met become compliant the Articles of Association Committees are assessed annually by the five times during the current year.
The will be amended appropriately and as from 23 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement the AGM in 2011 annual re-election will be him an ideal successor to Peter Hargreaves to Executive Committee implemented.
For the forthcoming AGM on 26 continue the growth of Hargreaves Lansdown.
The Board has delegated full authority to the November 2010 we are still operating under Executive Committee subject to a list of the existing Articles of Association.
To bring more balance to the Board, the matters which are reserved for decision by the Committee decided to appoint a further nonfull Board.
In particular the Executive During the year the Committee determined executive director.
Rather than engage a firm Committee is responsible to the Chief that Michael Evans possessed the necessary of headhunters, it was decided that we would Executive for developing and monitoring skills to fulfil the position of Chairman of the advertise the position to a subset of our clients.
every aspect of the Group businesses on a Board.
He was appointed as non-executive An initial mailing of some 8,000 clients continuing basis, for developing and Chairman with effect from 1 December 2009. resulted in approximately 150 high quality implementing business strategy as agreed by The Board believes that his skills and applications.
Following the selection criteria the Board and ensuring that day to day experience and knowledge of the Group have laid down by the Committee, and after two operations are conducted in accordance with proved to be invaluable and hence positioned rounds of interviews, we were delighted to the relevant regulatory and statutory him as the ideal candidate for the role.
As appoint Chris Barling to the Board on 26 requirements.
such, it was not necessary to use an external August 2010.
Chris is a client of Hargreaves search consultancy or open advertising for Lansdown and is currently CEO of Actinic, a The Executive Committee is chaired by Ian recruitment of a Chairman.
We Gorham, and in his absence by Peter believe Chris extensive IT experience will Hargreaves.
During the year the committee Following on from the appointment of Ian bring greater breadth of knowledge and also comprised Stephen Lansdown, Tracey Gorham on 1 September 2009 as Chief experience to the Board.
Taylor, Nigel Bence, Andrew Christian, Operating Officer, the Committee subsequently Theresa Barry, Alex Davies, Ian Gorham, Nick recommended his appointment as Deputy Chief Stephen Lansdown announced he wished to Marson and Ian Hunter.
Michael Evans is Executive on 26 April 2010, to join the Board stand down as an executive director but invited to attend the Executive Committee.
on 26 August 2010 and then to be appointed indicated that he would be prepared to to the position of Chief Executive, taking over continue to be involved with the Company as The Executive Committee meets at least responsibility from Peter Hargreaves from 2 a non-executive director.
The Committee quarterly but more frequently when required, September 2010.
The Committee believes that recognised that the Board would benefit from and met five times during the current the background he has had in financial services having Stephens great experience as a nonfinancial year.
whilst at Deloitte and as a Partner and Head executive director.
His appointment was of Financial Services at Grant Thornton made confirmed on 26 August 2010.
Attendance at meetings during the financial year by members of each committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Directors Peter Hargreaves 5 5 - - - 5 5 Stephen Lansdown 5 5 - - - 5 5 Tracey Taylor 5 5 - - - 5 5 Jonathan Bloomer 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 4 - Michael Evans 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 4 - Jonathan Davis 5 5 5 5 5 5 4 4 - Executive Committee Ian Gorham - - - - 3 3 Theresa Barry - - - - 5 5 Nigel Bence - - - - 5 5 Andrew Christian - - - - 4 5 Alex Davies - - - - 4 5 Nick Marson - - - - 1 1 Ian Hunter - - - - 1 1 Where Board meetings have been held for a specific purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 24 BACK TO CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement Training RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS risk management processes, which accord The Groups overall objective is to maintain with the Turnbull guidance and are and enhance professional standards for all Shareholder relations supported by reports from the Head of its employees.
It is particularly necessary to The Company is committed to maintaining Internal Audit that the significant risks maintain these standards for all staff who good communications with shareholders faced by the Company are being fall under the scope of the Financial Services and has a programme of communication identified, evaluated and appropriately Authority Training and Competence rules.
with shareholders through interim and managed, having regard to the balance of All directors and staff under the scope of annual reports, the AGM and the Investor risk, cost and opportunity.
these rules are required to perform certain Relations section of the corporate website at training during a year.
The key features of the system of business control and risk assessment established by For all new directors, the Chairman is It is intended that all directors will attend the Board include: responsible for preparing and implementing each AGM and shareholders will be given the a personalised induction programme opportunity to participate by asking a well defined management structure including guidance as to their duties, questions at the AGM on 26 November 2010. with clear accountabilities and responsibilities and liabilities as a director of In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive delegations: the Company.
The induction process can and Group Finance Director welcome the Group Audit Committee, the Executive include time with several of the senior dialogue with individual institutional Committee, and a system of executive risk managers and executives in a number of shareholders in order to develop an managers, which enhance and support business areas and demonstrations of understanding of their views which are then the oversight role of the Board: systems where relevant.
General presentations management information systems which are also given to analysts and investors enable the Board to receive Every director has access to appropriate covering the annual and interim results.
comprehensive monthly analysis of training as required subsequent to financial and business performance: appointment.
The need for director training ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT a Risk Management function led by the is regularly assessed.
Chief Risk Officer which reports to the Going concern directors and non-executive directors on Performance evaluation The financial statements are prepared on a the management of the major risks facing Individual appraisal of each directors going concern basis as the directors are the Group as assessed against the Groups performance is undertaken either by the satisfied that, at the time of approving the Risk Appetite: Chief Executive or Chairman each year and financial statements, the Group has the a Group Risk Strategy requiring all senior involves meetings with each director on a resources to continue in business for the managers to identify, evaluate and one-to one basis.
manage risks in their business units, and directors, led by the senior independent to monitor the effectiveness of internal director, carry out an appraisal of the Internal control and risk management controls applied to these risks: performance of the Chairman.
The Board has overall responsibility for the an Internal Audit function which reports Companys system of internal control and to the Audit Committee on the Other information risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness of key internal controls Any director has access to the advice and effectiveness.
The directors are required to operated by each department or business services of the Company Secretary and may establish systems for the control of the unit as part of the audit of that seek independent professional advice, if conduct of the business and to conduct the department or unit: necessary, at the Companys expense.
The business with prudence and integrity.
In a Compliance function to manage Company Secretary is responsible to the discharging this responsibility, the Board relationships with the Group's key Board for ensuring Board procedures are confirms that it has established the regulators and to identify major followed.
Any removal or appointment of procedures necessary to apply the Code, compliance and regulatory risks: and the Company Secretary is decided by the including clear operating procedures, lines a Money Laundering Reporting Officer Board.
of responsibility and delegated authority.
MLRO and anti-money laundering These procedures have been in place procedures, and controls including Simon Power stood down as Company throughout the year and are regularly training programmes for all staff.
The Secretary on 30 March 2010 and the Board reviewed by the Board.
Business MLRO also specifically considers the risk were delighted to appoint Judy Matthews as performance is managed closely and the of loss through financial crime and the the new Company secretary on the same day.
Board and Management has established controls in place to mitigate the risk of processes, as part of the normal good such loss.
All directors may take independent management of the business, to monitor: professional advice at the Companys In addition, the Audit Committee receives expense in conducting their duties.
progress towards strategic objectives: reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the financial performance, within a work carried out under the annual internal framework including forecasting, audit plan, and also reports from the external financial reporting, reviewing variances auditors.
against plan and taking appropriate management action: and 25 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 BACK TO CONTENTS Corporate Governance Statement The Board has delegated oversight of the across the full range of risks to which the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the Group's Internal Control Policy to the Audit Group is exposed, and how they are being system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and Committee.
The Audit Committee received controlled.
The Board, the Executive the Board is not aware of any change to this reports on the current operation of internal Committee and the Audit Committee receive status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
controls in relation to key and emerging risks, reports from the Head of Internal Audit and the Audit Committee carried out an identifying the effectiveness of internal Model Code overall review of the effectiveness of the controls together with specific reports on any The Company has its own internal dealing Group's system of internal control for the year major issues.
rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules to 30 June 2010 and the period to the date of Model Code provisions to all employees.
this report, on behalf of the Board.
The majority of the activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, are Audit Committee and auditors The Board has delegated oversight of the subject to supervision by the Financial The Audit Committee report on the following Groups risk management policies and Services Authority.
The Group is required on a pages provides details of the role and procedures to the Audit Committee.
Further regular basis to submit detailed prudential activities of the Committee and its embedding of the process used for and statistical returns covering all areas of its relationship with the internal and external identifying, evaluating and managing the business and meets regularly with its auditors.
significant risks faced by the Group has supervisors, conducting the relationship in an continued through the year.
A summary of the open and constructive manner.
The UK Corporate Governance Code significant risks is provided within the The new Code was issued in May 2010 and Operating and Financial Review.
This process Through the monitoring processes set out will apply for the financial year starting 1 July is regularly reviewed by the Board and above, the Board has conducted a review of 2010.
The Board is currently reviewing the accords with the Turnbull Guidance for the effectiveness of the system of internal requirements of the new Code and seeking to directors on the Combined Code.
control during the year ended 30 June 2010. address areas of non-compliance.
The system of internal control is designed to The Board receives minutes and reports from manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the failure to achieve business objectives and Executive Committee.
These identify any provide reasonable assurance as to the significant issues relating to the adequacy of effectiveness of the safeguards protecting the Michael Evans the Group's system of internal control and to business against the risk of material error, Chairman the risk management policies and procedures loss or fraud.
In that context, the review, in the 8 September 2010 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 26
