DIRECTORS REPORT continued Corporate Governance The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the principles of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, published in 2008 the Combined Code and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial year.
Compliance The Board believes that the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Association of Investment Companies AIC has published its own Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of best practice for investment companies.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, approval of the financial statements, investment policy, borrowings, gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are non-executive.
The executive responsibilities for investment management and administration have been delegated to Herald Investment Management Limited HIML and Baillie Gifford & Co respectively, and in the context of a Board comprising entirely nonexecutive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr DCP McDougall is the senior independent director.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience which enable it to provide effective leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 4.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
Terms of Appointment Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years, Directors who have served for more than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Manager and free of any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr CM Brendish and Mr DCP McDougall have served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning for company boards and review the Board composition annually.
However, the Board is of the view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving directors should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
The Board considers Mr CJ Cazalet to be independent notwithstanding that he was a managing director corporate finance at JPMorgan Cazenove, the Companys broker, until his retirement in 2007.
In the view of the Board, Mr Cazalet is independent of the Manager in character and judgement and his independence is not compromised by any previous relationship with the Company.
