Corporate Governance The Directors retiring in accordance with the Companys Articles Background of Association are Graham Picken and Chris Russell, who was The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of appointed as a Director on 1 June 2010.
The Board believes that corporate governance and is accountable to shareholders for the it would be in the Companys best interests for Mr Picken and governance of the Companys affairs.
Mr Russell to be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
The Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an investment company and There are no service contracts in existence between the which will enable the Company to comply voluntarily with the Company and any of the Directors but each of the Directors was relevant provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the main Governance the Combined Code issued by the Financial terms of his or her appointment.
Additionally, the Company became a member of the Association of Investment Companies When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is the AIC in the year, and so the Board has taken into account provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and the recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance their duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new the AIC Code which complements the Combined Code and Director will also spend some time with representatives of the provides a framework of best practice for investment companies.
Investment Adviser whereby he or she will become familiar with the various processes which the Investment Adviser considers Compliance necessary for the performance of his or her duties and The Board has made the appropriate disclosures in this report to responsibilities to the Company.
ensure the Company meets its continuing obligations.
It should be noted that as an Investment Company, most of the The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated to third date and attend training courses on matters which are directly parties, the Company has no employees and the Directors are relevant to their involvement with the Company.
Thus, not all of the provisions of the Combined also receive regular briefings from, amongst others, the auditors, Code are directly applicable to the Company.
the Joint Brokers and the Company Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in laws or regulations that The Board considers that the Company has complied with the could affect the Company and or the Directors.
provisions contained within the Combined Code throughout this accounting period, except as explained below, and this The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a statement describes how the relevant principles of governance form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its are applied to the Company.
In addition the Board believes it has duties.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material complied with the AIC Code in the period.
nature are determined by the Board.
The Board The Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability The Board currently consists of four non-executive Directors, all Insurance cover throughout the year.
of whom are independent of the Companys Investment Adviser.
This independence allows all the Directors to sit on the Senior Independent Director Companys various Committees.
The provision of the Combined Further to feedback from shareholders, the Board decided to Code which relates to the combination of the roles of the appoint a Senior Independent Director.
Mr John Hallam was chairman and chief executive does not apply as the Company has appointed Senior Independent Director at the Board meeting on no executive directors.
Details about the Directors are set out on 11 February 2010, and in accordance with the Combined Code, pages 32 and 33 and demonstrate a good range of investment concerns can be conveyed to him directly.
knowledge, business and financial skill.
The Directors retire by rotation at every third Annual General Meeting and Directors appointed to the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting also retire and stand for re-election.
Any Director who is not considered by the Board to be independent of the Investment Adviser or who will have served on the Board for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
38 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Boards responsibilities The Board has four scheduled meetings a year and because of the nature of the activities carried out during the year, a number of additional meetings were scheduled, some at short notice.
Between meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser.
The table below sets out the number of scheduled Board and Audit Committee meetings held during the year to 31 March 2010 and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
Board of Directors Audit Committee Scheduled Adhoc C Share Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended 1 1 G Picken 4 46476 na na S Evans 4 4667633 J Hallam 4 4667432 H Grisius 44657733 1.
G Picken is not a member of the Audit Committee but has been in attendance.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall Delegation of responsibilities management of the Company.
It reserves to itself decisions The Board has delegated the following areas of management and relating to the determination of investment policy, any change in administration responsibility: investment strategy, raising of further equity capital, policy on buying back of shares, whether to hold shares in treasury, and The day-to-day administration of the Company has been entering into any material contracts by the Company.
In addition, delegated to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as approval of circulars to shareholders and listing particulars, Company Secretary and Administrator.
relevant press releases and any significant change in accounting The Investment Adviser has two roles, Adviser to the policies or practices must also be referred to the Board.
Company and Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the Groups underlying investments.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the The role as Adviser includes preparing the semi annual Company Secretary and Administrator, who is responsible to the valuations, the statutory accounts, the management Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and accounts, business plans, presenting results and that it complies with applicable rules and regulations.
Where information to shareholders, coordinating all service necessary, in carrying out their duties, the Directors may seek providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Board has responsibility for ensuring that the Company The role of Operator includes running the partnership and keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable taking direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and day to day running of the Groups investment portfolio, which enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply the Groups debt facilities, swap arrangements, and the with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
It is the Boards sourcing of new investments.
Members of the responsibility to present a balanced and understandable Investment Advisers asset management team are assessment, which extends to interim and other price-sensitive appointed as directors of the Groups project companies public reports.
and as part of their role in actively managing the portfolio, they attend board meetings and make appropriate Performance evaluation decisions.
Material decisions are referred back to the Investment Advisers investment committee for The Board formally reviews its performance on a regular basis consideration and determination.
and an appraisal system has been agreed for the evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the individual Directors, including the Chairman.
The annual evaluation for the year ended 31 March 2010 has been carried out.
This took the form of questionnaires followed by discussions to identify how the effectiveness of its activities, including its Committees, policies or processes might be improved.
The results of the evaluation process were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed that the current composition of the Board and its Committees reflected a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees were functioning effectively.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 39 Corporate Governance continued reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the Committees of the Board following financial year: Audit Committee reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Throughout the year the Audit Committee has been in operation.
policies: and The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J Hallam, operates within clearly defined terms of reference and comprises all the ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems Directors except for Mr G Picken.
It met 3 times in the year to and standards.
The external auditors and the third party expert valuers are The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its invited to attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and Interim annual and interim accounts are considered and at which they Accounts, the system of internal controls, and the terms of have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
It representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
is also the formal forum through which the auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice yearly.
The The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Total fees paid are appointed to perform non-audit services and the fees paid to amounted to 0.5m for the year ended 31 March 2010 of which them or their affiliated firms overseas.
0.1m related to the audit of the Group, 0.2m related to audit of the Groups project subsidiaries and other audit related services, considering and recommending to the Board for approval the and 0.2m was in respect of audit and tax advisory work for contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements project companies in which the Group has an investment.
and reviewing the external auditors report thereon: Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence KPMG Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company and objectivity of the external auditors: and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the the objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors and the terms of their engagement: Other Committees of the Board After feedback from shareholders and consultation with the Companys Joint Brokers, the Board decided on 11 February 2010 to form a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination Committee, and a Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of reference for each committee have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and members of each committee are as follows: Management Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mrs S Evans Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Members Mr J Hallam Mrs S Evans Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Nomination Committee Since its formation, the Nomination Committee has met once in The main terms of reference of the committee are: the period to 31 March 2010, with the remit from the Board to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment.
A list of regularly review the structure, size and composition required potential candidates was developed from various sources, and of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with after careful consideration and interview, the Committee regard to any changes: unanimously recommended to the Board that Chris Russell be asked to join the Company as a Director.
The Board approved give full consideration to succession planning for directors this at its meeting on 20 May 2010 and Chris has agreed to join taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Board as a director from 1 June 2010.
Chriss biography is the Company: and on page 33. be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
40 HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 Remuneration Committee At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups The terms of reference of the Committee are to determine and investment performance in comparison to its stated objective and agree the Board policy for the remuneration of the directors of it also reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting the Company, including the approval of any ad-hoc payments in to ensure that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to respect of additional corporate work required e. g. for the work the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines.
involved with the C share issue.
Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from The Remuneration Committee met once in the period to 31 March the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of 2010 and after a review of the possible consultants available, compliance matters and duties performed by them on behalf of agreed to engage independent fee consultants, Trust Associates, the Company.
to carry out a review of the workload and responsibilities of each Director and to benchmark these roles with other similar The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function comparatives and advice on what fee levels are appropriate.
and it has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own This work concluded in April 2010 with a report from Trust internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Groups Associates.
After careful consideration, the committee proposed external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound and the Board approved the increase in annual fees payable as system of internal control, which safeguards the Companys set out in the Directors Report for the year to 31 March 2011. assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the The Board has decided to seek shareholder approval on these Group is therefore considered unnecessary.
The Board is responsible for the internal controls of the Company Management Engagement Committee and for reviewing their effectiveness, for ensuring that financial The terms of reference of this committee are to review the information published or used within the business is reliable, and relationships between the Company and its main service for regularly monitoring compliance with regulations governing providers, including their performance, compliance with their the operation of the Group.
contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from the Committees review are given to the Board for consideration The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control and action.
systems on an ongoing basis to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys significant risks.
Control of the risks identified, The Management Engagement Committee met once in the covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, period to 31 March 2010, and reviewed the performance of the is embedded in the operations of the Investment Adviser and the key service providers to the Group and the Company.
There is a monitoring and reporting material weaknesses were identified, some recommendations process to review these controls, which has been in place were conveyed to certain providers, and the recommendation to throughout the year under review and up to the date of this the Board was that the current arrangements are appropriate report, carried out by the Investment Advisers separate finance and provide good quality services and advice to the Company and risk team.
Should a risk be categorised by the Board as and the Group.
significant, an appropriate plan is agreed with the Investment Adviser to manage and mitigate the risk as far as is practicable.
Internal controls The Board recognises that these control systems can only be The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board is achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not therefore establishing an ongoing process designed to meet the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which relies on the operating controls established by both the Company it is exposed.
The process is based on a risk-based approach to Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
internal control through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Adviser and other key The Investment Adviser prepares both management accounts service providers, the various activities undertaken within those and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which functions, the risks associated with each activity and the controls allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then its performance.
The matrix is regularly updated and the Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material changes to the risk The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly ratings and the action which has been, or is being taken.
A formal defined investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and annual review of these procedures is carried out by the Audit exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including operating Committee.
By their nature these procedures will provide a performance, cash projections, and investment valuations, are reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material submitted to the Board at each quarterly meeting.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 41 Corporate Governance continued Relations with shareholders The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment Adviser produces a quarterly factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, the Companys Joint Brokers, and the Companys Financial PR agency.
By way of assisting shareholders to understand our portfolio of investments, we have held successful site visits to two of the Groups investments.
The presentations from these visits are available from the Companys website.
In addition, members of the Board met some shareholders at a dinner held in London in September and a lunch in Edinburgh in October, arranged by the Brokers.
It is the Boards intention to continue to meet with shareholders periodically to facilitate open two way communication on the development of the Company.
