54 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement I embrace the new Code it is directionally right and in many ways reflects what we already do.
I am pleased to say that we are able to report against it a year early.
Richard Burrows Chairman Chairmans introduction Board has reviewed its overall approach to risk and agreed that it At British American Tobacco, we are committed to sustained high will continue to assess risks on a case-by-case basis.
performance, supported by good governance.
We want to run our The new Code has prompted some changes to our procedures.
For business in a manner which is responsible and consistent with our example, our Board evaluation in 2010 benefited from an external belief in honesty, transparency and accountability.
For us, good facilitator, which provided a fresh perspective and produced some governance means managing our business well and engaging highly valuable learnings, as I hope this Statement will show.
It is never simply an exercise in Similarly, I have felt it important this year to focus on ensuring that compliance, but a key element underpinning the long-term growth our Board members continue to update and refresh their skills and of our business.
As such, it is of key importance in these challenging knowledge and so, in addition to scheduling additional briefing times, as much as it is in the good times.
sessions, for example on the new Code, I met with each of of the As a UK-listed company our principal reporting obligation arises Directors individually to discuss and agree their training and under the Combined Code, now updated by the Financial Reporting development needs in 2011.
In another change to our previous Council and renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code.
I practice, we will be submitting all of the eligible Directors for embrace the new Code it is directionally right and in many ways re-election at this years Annual General Meeting.
reflects what we already do.
It applies to accounting periods I continue to follow with interest developments in the field of beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Strictly speaking, we need not corporate governance, for example the governments recent follow it until 2011, reporting in 2012, but I was keen that we report consultation paper on the future of narrative reporting and its wider against it a year early.
This Corporate governance statement, review of corporate governance, focusing on key issues such as the therefore, is intended both to meet our formal obligations under the problems of short-termism, investor engagement and directors Combined Code and to demonstrate our alignment with the new remuneration.
I was also present at the launch of the governments Corporate Governance Code.
initiative, spearheaded by Lord Davies of Abersoch, aimed at The new Code emphasises the Boards responsibility for providing increasing the presence of women on the boards of UK-listed the leadership necessary to promote the long-term success of the companies.
It is an initiative that I support and, while we have a Company within the context of an effective framework of controls better balance than many at Board level, we cannot be complacent which encourage talent, innovation and best practice, while and I am conscious that we need to continue to strive towards a managing and mitigating risk.
As Chairman, I am conscious that it is better balance at the senior management level.
my responsibility to provide leadership to the Board in order to I am confident that British American Tobacco will continue to ensure its effectiveness and to oversee the delivery of the Groups demonstrate resilience in these challenging times through its strategy.
I am mindful in this regard of the importance of effective mix of good governance, a clear and consistent corporate encouraging the productive engagement of all Board members so as strategy and excellent management.
Our aim as a Board is simply to to enable all Directors to work in unison within a culture of openness ensure that this effective combination continues to return enhanced and debate.
In this Statement, we identify how we apply the Codes value to our shareholders.
principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board.
I am aware too of the need to have the keenest eye on risk management at the highest level, and the very real need for the Richard Burrows Board to play a leadership role in ensuring the effectiveness of Chairman controls and the evaluation of risk.
The renewed emphasis in the Code on risk management is consistent with our approach over the past two years, both in satisfying ourselves that our risk management processes are effective, and in extending our disclosure to assist investors and other stakeholders in understanding our principal risks You can read more about and how we look to manage them.
In addition, in the last year the our governance at: www.
com governance Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 55 Corporate governance Compliance statement The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on The Board considers that this Statement provides the information the London Stock Exchange are contained in the Combined Code necessary to enable shareholders to evaluate how the Main Principles on Corporate Governance adopted in June 2008 the 2008 Code.
of the 2008 Code have been applied, that the Company has complied A new UK Corporate Governance Code was adopted in 2010 the with the Provisions of the 2008 Code throughout the year, and 2010 Code and will apply in place of the 2008 Code to accounting that it has therefore satisfied its obligations under the 2008 Code.
periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Both Codes are To the extent that it is not specifically included in this Corporate published by the Financial Reporting Council and are available governance statement, the information required by section 7.2 from its website www.
ofthe Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is included in the Our formal obligation for 2010 is to report how the Company has section entitled Other Statutory and Regulatory Information and is applied the Main Principles of the 2008 Code and whether it has incorporated herein by reference.
complied with the Provisions of that Code.
Nevertheless, in In the interests of further transparency, we have again prepared a keeping with our commitment to high standards of corporate report which summarises the matters addressed in this Statement, governance, we have taken the opportunity during 2010 to meet as appropriate, by reference to each Principle and Provision of the the requirements of the 2010 Code.
Accordingly, this Statement 2008 Code which also refers, as appropriate, to the 2010 Code.
isintended to meet our formal obligation under the 2008 Code The updated report is available on the corporate governance while also reporting by reference to the 2010 Code.
com The Board The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders Balance of Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors for the long-term success of the Group and for its overall strategic Chairman 1 direction, its values and its governance.
It provides the leadership Executive Directors 3 necessary for the Group to meet its business objectives within the Independent Non-Executive Directors 8 framework of its internal controls, while also discharging the Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors 0 Companys obligations to its shareholders.
Directors As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has a Board of 13Directors: Chairman Richard Burrows Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Paul Adams Chief Executive 0-3 years 2 Nicandro Durante Chief Executive Designate 3-6 years 3 6-9 years 3 Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief Information Officer 9 years 0 John Daly Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Directors Sir Nicholas Scheele Christine Morin-Postel Senior Independent Director Dr Gerry Murphy Karen fide Segundo Kieran Poynter Robert Lerwill Anthony Ruys Dr Ana Maria Llopis Gender split of Directors Paul Adams will retire from the Board and as Chief Executive on Male 9 28 February 2011.
Having been appointed Chief Executive Designate Female 3 on 1 September 2010, Nicandro Durante, formerly Chief Operating Officer, will succeed him as Chief Executive on 1 March 2011.
John Daly was appointed as an Executive Director and Chief Operating Officer on 1 September 2010 and, on the same date, Ben Stevens took on the additional role of Chief Information Officer.
Kieran Poynter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2010.
Ana Maria Llopis will be retiring from the Board following the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
Note: Biographical and related information about the Directors is given on The charts above reflect the position following Paul Adamss the Board of Directors page.
56 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Chairman and Chief Executive the British American Tobacco account as audit partner or The Chairman and Chief Executive are responsible for the profitable otherwise duringhistime with the firm.
Given the size and scale operation of the Group.
Their roles are separate, with each having of  as a global professional services firm, distinct and clearly defined responsibilities.
andthe fact that it works with a great many businesses, the Board concluded that, in the absence of direct involvement in the The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for Companys business, his association with the firm up to June 2008 ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He sets the agenda was no impediment to its assessment of him as independent in June for Board meetings in consultation with the Chief Executive and the 2010.
Mindful, however, that this could be an area of concern for Company Secretary.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the shareholders, the Board decided to appoint him to the Nominations interests of the Companys shareholders are safeguarded and that and Corporate Social Responsibility Committees only at this time.
there is effective communication with them.
The Chairman is He is not currently a member of either the Audit Committee or the accountable to the Board for leading the direction of the Groups Remuneration Committee.
corporate and financial strategy and for the overall supervision of the policies governing the conduct of the Groups business.
Meetings of the Board The Board held nine meetings in 2010, seven of which were The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the performance of scheduled and two of which were convened to address Main Board the Groups business.
He provides leadership to the Group to enable and Management Board succession issues as a result of Paul Adamss the successful planning and execution of the objectives and strategies retirement with effect from 28 February 2011.
The Board is agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for stewardship of the scheduled to hold seven meetings in 2011.
Groups assets and, jointly with the Chairman, for representation of the Group externally.
Non-Executive Directors Board meeting attendance The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to help develop strategy and, where appropriate, to provide constructive challenge to Meetings managements proposals.
They are responsible for scrutinising Meetings eligible Name attended to attend theperformance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and for monitoring the reporting of performance.
All of Richard Burrows 9 9 the Non-Executive Directors remain available to meet with major Sir Nicholas Scheele 8 9 investors in order to understand their views and concerns.
Paul Adams 9 9 Senior Independent Director Nicandro Durante 9 9 Sir Nicholas Scheele is the Senior Independent Director.
When Ben Stevens 9 9 required, he presides at meetings of the Board and shareholders in 1 John Daly 3 3 the absence of the Chairman.
He serves as intermediary for the otherDirectors where necessary and is available should occasion Karen fide Segundo 8 9 arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other Robert Lerwill 9 9 thanthrough the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the other Dr Ana Maria Llopis 9 9 Executive Directors.
Christine Morin-Postel 7 9 Board composition Dr Gerry Murphy 9 9 All Directors are aware of their responsibility to take decisions 2 Kieran Poynter 4 4 objectively which promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
Anthony Ruys 9 9 The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors are Notes: independent, in the sense that they are free from any business or 1.
John Daly was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director and Chief other relationships which could materially interfere with or appear Operating Officer on 1 September 2010. toaffect the exercise of their judgment and have not previously 2.
Kieran Poynter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director been involved in the management of the Group.
Those Directors who were absent from one or more meetings were either Kieran Poynter retired as Chairman and Senior Partner of unable to attend a meeting arranged at short notice or had a long-standing  LLP, the Companys auditors, on prior engagement.
30 June 2008, two years prior to his appointment to the Board.
The Board specifically considered, prior to his appointment, whether his previous position with  might impact upon his independence in light of Code Provision A.
1.1 in the 2010 Code, which identifies, as one of the circumstances which are likely, or could appear, to affect a directors judgment, any material business relationship with the Company within the previous three years.
The Board took into account that Mr Poynter had neither worked with the Group nor had any responsibility for Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 57 Corporate governance The Chairman will always seek to obtain consensus at Board Approving the Companys Annual Report and reviewing its meetings but, where necessary, decisions will be taken by majority.
If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or a Declaring an interim dividend and recommending the proposed action which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be finaldividend.
recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2010.
Agreeing the agenda for the Annual General Meeting.
Agreeing Board succession plans and considering the evaluation The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet, if of the Boards performance over the preceding year.
required, prior to meetings of the Board without the Executive Reviewing the Companys risk management and internal Directors present and also meet annually, led by the Senior controls systems and governance framework and approving the Independent Director, without the Chairman present.
Standards of Business Conduct and other Group policies.
The Boards principal responsibilities include: Approving the Groups business strategy and ensuring that an effective management team and the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
Key activities of the Board in 2010 Growth Responsibility The Board kept under review the Groups performance throughout The Board monitored developments in tobacco regulation around 2010, focusing in particular on industry trends, the outlook in the world, including regulation being considered by the US Food strategically important markets and key consumer segments and and Drug Administration, the consultation on the European the performance of the Groups Global Drive Brands.
In doing so, it Tobacco Product Directive, and the likely content of the Product considered the global economic climate, as well as the impact on Guidelines being developed under the FCTC.
It also kept under the Groups volumes of industry volume declines, growing illicit review the activities being undertaken within the Groups Research trade and foreign exchange movements, as well as specific & Development function aimed at developing potentially incidents such as the floods in Pakistan.
It satisfied itself reduced-harm products.
It was briefed on the results of clinical throughout the year that, despite difficult trading conditions, trials undertaken by the Group in 2010.
It also received an update management remained on track to deliver the strategy.
on proposals to conduct extended clinical trials on further prototype products in 2011 and noted that the Group would be The Board regularly considered opportunities for growth through publishing several papers covering the results of its clinical trial strategic acquisitions and reviewed the impact of the acquisition of studies in peer reviewed journals.
The cooperation agreement the Bentoel tobacco business and its merger with BAT Indonesia entered into with the European Commission and member states of effective 1 January 2010.
It also considered the innovations the European Union in July 2010, aimed at collectively tackling the pipeline as a driver of future growth.
problem of illicit trade in tobacco, was presented to the Board, and It kept under review the Groups liquidity and the means by which it also received an update on the FCTC Protocol on Illicit Trade.
it funds its activities and continued to satisfy itself that Winning organisation management was making sufficient provision in this regard.
The Board reviewed succession planning in consultation with the Productivity Nominations Committee and considered and agreed the The Board continued to oversee initiatives aimed at managing Committees various recommendations for appointments at both costs, increasing efficiencies and leveraging the Groups global Main Board and Management Board level, including those arising reach.
It considered a number of short-term initiatives and from the Chief Executives forthcoming retirement.
In addition, the reviewed progress on the longer-term Global Integration Project, position of the Groups major pension funds was reviewed aimed at achieving structural savings.
A number of proposed including how the Group is managing future liabilities, and the reorganisations within the Groups regions and functions were results of the global Your Voice survey of employees conducted in considered during the year and are now in the process of being 2010 were considered.
implemented, including a reorganisation of the Groups regions The Board held one of its meetings in Russia, one of the Groups and the closure of the Groups factory in Lecce, Italy.
In addition, key markets, where it received presentations from members of the the closure of the Groups factory in Denmark was completed.
Eastern Europe regional team and the British American Tobacco Russia top team in Moscow and visited the factory in St Petersburg.
58 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Management Board Information and professional development The Management Board has responsibility for overseeing the All Directors receive induction on joining the Board, covering their implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies duties and responsibilities as directors.
Non-Executive Directors also and strategy set by the Main Board, and for creating the conditions receive a full programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys for their successful day-to-day operation.
The Management Board is business from the Executive Directors, members of the Management chaired by the Chief Executive and its other members are the Chief Board and other senior executives, and they may request such Executive Designate, the Finance Director, the Chief Operating further information as they consider necessary.
Officer and the 10 senior Group executives, whose names appear on All Directors receive briefings designed to update their skills and the Management Board page.
It held nine scheduled meetings in knowledge on a regular basis, for example in relation to the business 2010 and no unscheduled meetings.
It is scheduled to hold nine and on legal and regulatory requirements, and by visits to Company meetings in 2011.
Members of the Management Board are invited to sites see Key activities of the Board in 2010.
They also make use of attend meetings of the Board from time to time, in particular when the opportunity to attend meetings of the Groups regional audit the Groups strategy and Budget are under discussion.
The Board timetable has been extended with Board Committees effect from 2011 to allow an additional day for training or briefings The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to on relevant matters.
which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the Audit Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Following his appointment, Kieran Poynter attended induction Committee.
The roles, membership and activities of these briefings covering the Groups strategy, its organisational Committees are described in more detail later in this Corporate structure and its business functions and activities, including its governance statement and, in the case of the Remuneration financing principles and statutory reporting cycle, environmental Committee, in the Remuneration report.
Each Committee has its health & safety issues, research & development activities and own terms of reference, which have been reviewed and updated to legal and regulation issues.
He also attended sessions addressing ensure that they remain consistent with best practice and that they corporate governance and directors duties, the Groups internal are aligned with the 2010 Code.
The updated terms of reference control and risk management framework and the role of the were considered and adopted by the Board in December 2010 and external auditors and its information technology strategy.
John came into effect on 1 January 2011.
They are available from the Daly also received a briefing on directors duties on his Company Secretary and on www.
com appointment to the Board.
Conflicts of interest The full Board received briefings on a number of legal and The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with the regulatory developments, including the 2010 Code, the Bribery conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Act 2010, current trends in corporate governance and the Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise potential impact of a change to the tax treatment of pension situational conflicts.
Directors are required to give advance notice of accruals scheduled to be introduced in April 2011. any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, and these are considered either at the next Board meeting or, if the timing In addition, in keeping with his enhanced responsibilities under requires it, at a meeting of the Boards Conflicts Committee.
The full the 2010 Code, the Chairman met separately with each NonBoard is notified at its next meeting of any matters authorised by the Executive Director in October 2010 in order to discuss individual Committee.
In February each year, the Board reviews all previously development plans.
As a result of these discussions: authorised situational conflicts, considering each one afresh.
a briefing session on the Groups Research & Development Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in respect of activities and its operations in Southampton has been any matters in which they have an interest.
organised for June 2011: further briefings will be scheduled to review the Groups investment in its associate companies: During 2010, a number of situational and transactional conflicts the Groups long-term strategy is to be reviewed with the were notified to the Company in accordance with these Chairman and Chief Executive during 2011: and procedures.
All matters authorised by the Board and the Conflicts a review of the progress of a project to provide enhanced IT Committee were recorded in the register of interests maintained delivery has been scheduled for the first half of 2011. by the Company Secretary.
None were sufficiently significant to warrant disclosure, but included, for example, Robert Lerwills appointment as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Transcom Worldwide S. A. and Kieran Poynters appointment as Non-Executive Director of International Consolidated Airlines Group S. A.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 59 Corporate governance The Board and its Committees receive high-quality, up-to-date excellent.
Specific justification was requested if anyone rated a information for review in good time ahead of each meeting, and the particular topic area as excellent and the interviewer also used his Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, ensures own experience to question and challenge the ratings given.
Each good information flows within the Board and its Committees and interview was written up on a pro forma report and confirmed by between the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
She the Director as an accurate record of the interview.
The findings is also responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on from the interviews formed the basis for a detailed report and all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the presentation to the Board and a number of recommendations were Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
made by the facilitators and discussed at the Board meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company While the Board discussed the effectiveness of each of the Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent Committees in general terms, each Committee requested an professional advice at the Companys expense should this be opportunity to consider the findings of the Board evaluation in required.
The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to detail.
Separate reports will be prepared for each Committee using provide cover in the event of legal action against its Directors.
material from the original interviews in respect of their activities.
These will be considered during 2011 and any additional action Evaluation of Board performance points may be agreed by each Committee separately.
The Companys approach to Board evaluation was reconsidered this year following a Board discussion of the 2010 Code and its Comment on the personal performance of each of the Directors was implications for the Companys corporate governance policies and provided directly to the Chairman, who then met separately with processes.
Although the Company is satisfied that its previously the Directors to discuss the findings of the Board evaluation, their internally conducted evaluations had been robust and thorough, it is individual performance and their personal development plan for the keen to be at the forefront of good corporate governance practice.
Accordingly, and consistent with its aim to meet the requirements of The Chairman received feedback from the Senior Independent the 2010 Code early, the Company decided to conduct its first Director, who had previously met with the other Directors to discuss externally facilitated board performance evaluation during 2010. the Chairmans performance using a separate discussion guide.
This A shortlist of possible external facilitators was prepared in July 2010. covered general issues relating to the effectiveness of his leadership To avoid any possible conflicts of interest, no board search agencies of the Board as well as a specific issue raised by a shareholder during or headhunters were included.
Detailed proposals were requested the year.
from each of the candidates and a number were then interviewed by In addition to the formal Board Evaluation process the Chairman the Chairman and Company Secretary.
On the basis of their also discusses the effectiveness and performance of Directors proposed approach and extensive experience, Simon Osborne and immediately before they make themselves available for re-election.
Geoffrey Shepheard from the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, were appointed to conduct a full evaluation of the Shareholder engagement performance of the Board including an overview of the work of the Relations with shareholders Committees and the performance of individual Directors.
The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Its primary contact, Key areas for the review were agreed with the Chairman at the facilitated by the Head of Investor Relations, is through the Executive outset.
These included topics for discussion proposed by the Directors, but the Chairman also contacts major shareholders facilitators as well as those areas for improvement which had been periodically in order to understand their views on the Company identified in the previous years, internally facilitated, review.
Overall, and to ensure that their views are communicated to the Board seven categories were identified: as a whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the the role of the Board, its responsibilities and those of other Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major itsCommittees: shareholders in order to understand their views and any concerns oversight, covering how the Board oversees risk, business ethics which they may have.
and corporate governance and the arrangements for reviewing During 2010, a wide range of business and corporate governance the performance of Directors and senior managers: issues, including Board appointments, strategy and risk, dividend the arrangements for and effectiveness of Board meetings: policy, the share buy-back programme, the impact of currency the support and training for the Board: movements and tobacco regulation, were discussed with, or raised Board composition, including the range of skills required, by, a number of major institutional investors as part of the regular succession planning and effectiveness of the Chairman, Senior investor relations programme.
In addition, a focused schedule of Independent Director and Committee Chairmen: meetings with key institutional shareholders was undertaken by the how the Board works together and its engagement with Chairman in advance of the Annual General Meeting in April 2010, shareholders: and with discussions covering a range of issues including the Companys outcomes and achievements including how the Board is performance and governance generally.
In addition, at the request perceived externally.
of a shareholder, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director Simon Osborne interviewed each of the Directors and the Chairman met with its representative to discuss particular issues relating to the using a pre-defined question plan covering the agreed areas.
At the Companys relationship with its external auditor, covering the end of each series of questions on a particular topic, each Director appointment of Kieran Poynter and the level of non-audit fees.
was asked to make an assessment ranging from poor through to 60 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Evaluation of Board performance Update on 2009 objectives being sound.
A number of areas for improvement were Specific actions arising out of the 2009 Board evaluation included: nevertheless identified in the report and have been discussed by the Board.
Thekey actions agreed for 2011 are set out below.
additional non-executive appointments: a review of the sequencing, timing and resourcing of the Audit Build on the success of the revised Audit and CSR Committee and CSR Committees so that meetings of both committees arrangements by carrying out a review of the size and could be held simultaneously: composition of the Remuneration Committee.
a review and overall assessment of Group risk to be carried out In the interests of full transparency, ensure that the by the Board at least once a year: and Remuneration Committee receives a formal report following a review of the distribution of board papers and the the Chief Executives annual appraisal of each member of the introduction of a board software solution.
Each of the four Committees to review the specific comments Progress has been made on most of these objectives with some relating to their activities set out in the Evaluation Report overflow into 2011.
A new Non-Executive Director, Kieran Poynter, andreport back to the Board with any additional agreed was appointed with effect from 1 July 2010 and the Board is actionpoints.
actively seeking one or more further non-executive appointments.
Review the current process for confirming whether Directors Mr Poynters membership of the CSR Committee, together with will be put forward for re-election, particularly in view of the the provision of additional Audit and Secretarial resources to requirement in the 2010 Code to submit all directors for annual service the Committee, have enabled meetings of the CSR re-election.
Committee and the Audit Committee to be held simultaneously Establish a direct reporting line for the Company Secretary with effect from July 2010.
This has removed a significant time tothe Chairman in relation to Board matters.
pressure which existed previously for both meetings and has With regard to succession and, specifically the appointment allowed greater flexibility to schedule appropriate training and ofNon-Executive Directors to the Board, the Nomination briefing sessions on CSR and Audit matters into those Committee Committee was reminded of the need to have particular regard agendas.
The Board Programme was revised to provide for an to a persons ability to influence outcomes.
annual overview of the Groups Risk Register by the Board, again starting in July 2010.
Identifying a suitable software solution In addition to these key areas, a number of more administrative forthe distribution of papers has been deferred pending actions were also agreed such as a review of the calendar of anassessment in 2011 of suppliers offering appropriate standard Board items to ensure continuing relevance, periodic technologysolutions.
reviews of the content of reports to the Board, and a review of the induction arrangements to ensure all areas of the business remain Outcome of 2010 evaluation covered.
In addition, the remaining 2009 action point regarding a The overall assessment for 2010 showed that the Board is strong Board software solution will also be implemented.
Across all seven categories the Board rated itselfhighly.
In particular, the assessment noted the Boards focus A number of actions have already been completed, for example a on strategy, risk, succession, financial oversight, good governance direct reporting line to the Chairman has been established for the and ethical behaviour.
It is considered to be a constructive Company Secretary in relation to Board matters and the Chairman sounding board with a good spread of skills, backgrounds, has discussed re-election with each Director as part of their genderand nationalities appropriate for a multinational business, development plan discussions.
Other action points will be and is considered to work well as a unit with the key relationships monitored through the year by way of regular reports to the Board and will be reported in next years Annual Report.
As explained further in the Remuneration report, shareholders have Analyst presentations, including those following the announcement been consulted regarding specific proposals in respect of the of the preliminary results and the half-yearly report, are available Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan and International Executive bywebcast, and other presentations made to institutional Incentive Scheme.
The consultation was undertaken following the  on www.
There is a debt microsite Remuneration Committees comprehensive review in the second half onwww.
comfor debt investors, which includes comprehensive of 2010 of all elements of the remuneration policy for senior managers, bondholder information on credit ratings, debt facilities, and was based around the Companys top 20 shareholders as well outstanding bonds and maturity profiles.
asinstitutional shareholder representative bodies Association of At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations presents a report British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds to the Board on investor relations generally, identifying the key andgovernance service agencies such as ISS.
Further details of the issues raised by institutional shareholders.
In addition, the Board consultation and its outcome are provided in the Remuneration report.
receives a report at each of its meetings on any changes to the holdings of the Companys main institutional shareholders.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 61 Corporate governance As part of its continuing shareholder strategy, the Company The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE Amex recognises the benefits of electronic communications with its Equities in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under shareholders.
In September 2010, the Company refreshed its the symbol BTI with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Each ADR previous communication with shareholders to warn them about represents two of the Companys ordinary shares and at 31 the continuing fraudulent practice of boiler room scams and, in December 2010, 28,576,280 ADRs were outstanding, represented particular, unsolicited offers to sell shareholdings in the Company by 57,152,560 ordinary shares.
Citibank, N. A. continues to act as or to buy shares in other companies at a discount.
depositary for the ADR programme.
Annual General Meeting The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Mermaid programme and none of its securities are listed on any United States Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, securities exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of LondonEC4V3DB at 11:30am on 28 April 2011.
Details of the the United States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the business to be proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice NYSE Amex Equities listing standards nor the corporate governance of Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and is rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board also published on www.
com has chosen, in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the principal differences and The Annual General Meeting provides a useful opportunity for common areas between the Companys corporate governance shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Chairman to practices as explained above and those that would be required explain the Companys progress and receive questions from if the Company were subject to those rules.
The chairmen of the Audit, CSR, and Remuneration statementwill be available on the corporate governance section of Committees are normally available at the Annual General Meeting to www.
comfrom the date of publication of the Annual Report.
take any relevant questions and all other Directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing Significant shareholders so.
All Directors at the time attended the Annual General Meeting in At 23 February 2011, the following substantial interests 3 per cent April 2010. or more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the Company in accordance with section 5.1.
2 The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules: rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including Number of those cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the provisional ordinary % of issued votingresults at the Meeting, and the final results are Name shares share capital announcedonthesame day through the Regulatory News Service BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 6.65 and on www.
The Company appoints an independent Reinet Investments S. C. A.
84,303,670 4.22 assessor to scrutinise the Annual General Meeting and to produce a report of the meeting, covering the proxy voting process, Legal & General Group Plc 79,243,066 3.97 attendance and an audit of the poll procedures.
The report in 2010 confirmed the adequacy, accuracy and fairness of the proxy process Note: and the voting procedures and systems.
The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
Stock market listings The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Since 28 October 2008, the Companys ordinary shares have had a secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa JSE, under the abbreviated name BATS and the trading code BTI.
As at 31December 2010, 246,929,672 ordinary shares of the Company being 12.37 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares were on its South African branch register for which Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd are share registrars.
62 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee Current members Robert Lerwill Chairman Christine Morin-Postel Anthony Ruys Sir Nicholas Scheele Robert Lerwill Chairman, Audit Committee Accountability and audit Attendance at meetings in 2010 Summary Terms of Reference The Audit Committee is responsible for: Meetings Meetings eligible monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements Name attended to attend and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, reviewing significant financial reporting Robert Lerwill 5 5 judgments contained in them before their submission to the Christine Morin-Postel 5 5 Board for approval: Anthony Ruys 5 5 keeping under review the consistency of the accounting Sir Nicholas Scheele 4 5 policies applied across the Group: reviewing the effectiveness of the accounting, internal control and business risk systems of the Company and Notes: itssubsidiaries: Sir Nicholas Scheele was unable to attend one meeting of the Audit Committee due to a long-standing prior engagement.
reviewing and, when appropriate, making recommendations The Chief Operating Officer and the Finance Director regularly attend to the Board on business risks, internal controls and compliance: meetings of the Committee by invitation but are not members.
The monitoring compliance with the Companys Standards of Committees meetings are also regularly attended by the Head of Audit and Business Conduct: Business Risk, the General Counsel to the Company and a representative of monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys the external auditors.
internal audit function: and Robert Lerwill has recent and relevant financial experience.
monitoring and reviewing the performance of the Companys As a matter of best practice, the Committee meets alone with the external external auditors, keeping under review their independence auditors at the end of every meeting and, since July 2010, it has also met and objectivity, making recommendations as to their separately with the Group Head of Audit and Business Risk at the end of every meeting.
reappointment or, where appropriate, making Meetings were held in parallel with meetings of the CSR Committee from recommendations for change, and approving their terms of July 2010, allowing for longer meetings than previously and enabling fuller engagement and the level of audit fees payable to them.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in December 2010 and minor updates were made with effect from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 63 Corporate governance Key activities of the Audit Committee in 2010 Measures being implemented to secure access to hard The Audit Committee held five meetings during 2010, at which it currency in markets with foreign exchange restrictions.
considered the following standing items of business: An update on the steps being taken to enhance governance and risk management in relation to major projects and The Groups 2009 results and its 2010 half-yearly results and programmes, including a review of progress on the Global interim management statements.
Periodic reports from the Groups regional audit and CSR The Groups manufacturing footprint and the structured committees and corporate audit committee.
process adopted in Western Europe to factory footprint Periodic reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business Risk reviews, including post-implementation reviews.
on international audits and the management responses and action plans being put in place to address any concerns raised.
In addition, the Committee considered a number of other specific The 2011 Internal Audit Plan.
matters, including: Periodic reports from the Head of Group Security including A proposal to hold Regional Audit and CSR Committee consideration of security risks and frauds and losses arising meetings back to back so that travel time is reduced and during the year.
efficiencies improved, to take effect from 1 April 2011.
Compliance with the Groups Standards of Business Conduct Consultations being carried out by the Auditing Practices and records management procedures.
Board and the Financial Reporting Council in connection with An annual review of the external auditors independence the type and level of non-audit services that may be provided andaconsideration of the issue on an ongoing basis see by a companys auditor and proposed responses to the furtherbelow.
consultations on behalf of the Company.
The Committee also carried out its twice-yearly review of the Group A review of the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees and a risk register and considered the following risk topics in detail: consideration of the types of non-audit work carried out by the external auditors and the benefits involved in them carrying Key risks arising from the FCTC and tobacco regulation, and the out this work see further below.
various actions being taken to mitigate the risk in each area.
Oversight of the transition of the lead external audit partner, Key risks in certain markets, including Turkey.
following the former lead partners retirement by rotation.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any Business model activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek any information The Business review includes a section outlining our business model it requires from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings for sustainable growth, which provides an explanation of the basis of, any Director or member of management, and all employees are on which the Group generates value and preserves it over the long expected to cooperate with any request made by the Committee.
term and its strategy for delivering its objectives.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Going concern Companys expense, outside legal or other independent professional The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant affect its future development, performance and position are set out experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
in the performance and strategy section and the Regional review.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy facilities and borrowing position are described in the Financial of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Review.
The Key Group risk factors include an analysis of financial Committee are available to any Director who is not a member, risk and the Groups approach to financial risk management and should they wish to receive them.
notes 21 and 24 in the Notes on the Accounts provide further detail on the Groups borrowings and management of financial risks.
The Audit Committee will be reviewing comments made during the 2010 Board evaluation process in relation to its activities and any The Group has at the date of the report, sufficient existing financing additional actions relevant to its role and responsibilities will be available for its estimated requirements for the next 12 months.
reported back to the Board and implemented during 2011.
This, together with its proven ability to generate cash from trading activities, the performance of the Groups Global Drive Brands, its Financial reporting leading market positions in a number of countries and its broad The Board is satisfied that it has met its obligation to present a geographical spread, as well as numerous contracts with established balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and and prospects in the Directors report and financial statements and industries, provides the Directors with the confidence that the in periodic reports, reports to regulators and price-sensitive Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully in the announcements.
A summary of the Directors responsibilities for context of current financial conditions and the general outlook in thefinancial statements and their statement concerning relevant the global economy.
audit information is included at the end of this Corporate governance section.
64 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Accountability and audit continued After reviewing the Groups annual budget, plans and financing Political contributions arrangements, the Directors consider that the Group has adequate The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that for political purposes throughout the Group.
No donation was made it is therefore appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern in 2010 to any political party registered in the UK under the Political basis in preparing the Annual Report.
Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Subsidiaries of the Company in Australia, Canada and the Solomon Islands made External auditors contributions to non-EU political parties in their respective countries The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, of incorporation totalling 114,245 2009: 76,969. resources, and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committees assessment is Standards of Business Conduct informed by an external audit satisfaction survey completed by The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with members of senior management, which it reviews in detail.
the Companys Standards of Business Conduct, which underpin the Companys commitment to good corporate behaviour.
The  LLP has been the Companys auditors since Standards of Business Conduct have been in place for many years, it listed on the London Stock Exchange in September 1998.
The and require all staff to act with high standards of business integrity, Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is to comply with all applicable laws and regulations and to ensure that working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
business standards are never compromised for the sake of results.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to require the firm to They are currently under review in order to ensure that they remain tender for the audit work.
There are no contractual obligations at the forefront of best business practice and to ensure alignment restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The external with the provisions of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the offences created auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the by which are due to come into effect during 2011.
Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
The current lead audit partner replaced the previous lead partner by rotation following Every Group company and every employee worldwide is expected completion of the 2009 Report and Accounts.
to live up to the Standards of Business Conduct and guidance on them is communicated regularly throughout the Group, including The Audit Committee has an established policy aimed at through training and awareness programmes.
All Group companies safeguarding and supporting the external auditors independence have adopted the Group Standards or local policies embodying and objectivity.
Pursuant to this policy, it keeps under review the them.
They are applicable to all employees, including senior ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees charged by the external auditors management, and to the Board of Directors.
Senior managers in the to ensure that neither their independence nor their objectivity is put Group must report on annual compliance with the Standards with at risk.
A breakdown of non-audit fees charged by the external regard to all employees in the company or department for which auditors is disclosed in note 3 d in the Notes on the Accounts.
Information on compliance with the Standards Committee also takes steps to ensure that the external auditors do is gathered at a global level and reported to the regional audit and not audit their own work.
In addition, during 2010, the Committee, CSR committees and to the Audit Committee.
The CSR Committee as well as the Board, considered the specific sources of non-audit also reviews any Group reputation-related issues arising from work and discussed the benefits to the Group of such work being non-compliance with the Standards.
carried out by the external auditors.
In a number of instances, the Committee noted that the work had been moved to other suppliers.
The Standards of Business Conduct are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
com The Audit Committee has completed its assessment of the external auditors for the financial period under review.
It remains confident Confidential reporting procedures that the objectivity and independence of the external auditors are The Standards of Business Conduct also set out the Groups not in any way impaired by reason of the non-audit services which whistleblowing policy, which enables staff, in confidence, to raise they provide to the Group.
Moreover, the Committee is satisfied that concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other matters their selection for such work is based upon an assessment of their and to do so without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns abilities, taking into account their existing knowledge of the Group, are not raised in bad faith.
The policy is supplemented by local with the majority of such work being awarded through a procedures throughout the Group and at the Groups London competitive tendering process.
Having satisfied itself as to their headquarters, which provide staff with additional guidance and qualification, expertise, resources and independence and the enable them to report matters in a language with which they are effectiveness of the audit process, it has recommended to the Board, comfortable.
The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on for approval by shareholders, the reappointment of whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the policy and the  LLP as the Companys external auditors procedures in place incorporate arrangements for the proportionate and approved their fees and terms of engagement.
and independent investigation of matters raised and for the appropriate follow-up action.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011 to reappoint  LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration for the 2011 audit.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 65 Corporate governance Risk management and internal control the committees after every meeting.
In addition, central, regional and The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of individual market management, along with internal audit, supports the significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment.
strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and Risk management and internal control processes internal control systems.
With the support of the Audit Committee, Risk registers are used at Group, regional, area and individual market it carries out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk level to identify, assess and monitor the key risks both financial and management and internal control systems annually, covering all non-financial faced by the business at each level.
They are based on material controls including financial, operational and compliance a standardised methodology, which was updated during 2010 to controls and risk management systems, and reports to shareholders include information on prevailing trends in relation to each risk and that it has done so.
to simplify and standardise the assessment of their impact and During 2010, the Board considered its overall approach to risk in likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage thecontext of the Groups day-to-day operations and agreed that the risks identified and the risk registers and mitigation plans are it will continue to assess risks on a case-by-case basis, both as part reviewed and, where appropriate, updated on a regular basis.
of its consideration of any new proposal or strategy and in its Regional and above-market risk registers are reviewed regularly by overview of the risks and mitigating activities identified in the the relevant regional audit and CSR committee or the corporate Group risk register.
Overview At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal risk is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The Group control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and risk register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage chaired by the Finance Director and twice-yearly by the Management risks that may impede the achievement of the Companys business Board.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by the Board and objectives rather than to eliminate these risks and can therefore twice-yearly by the Audit Committee, which also considers provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material oneormore key risks in detail at each meeting.
A description of the key risk factors that may Group companies and other business units are required at least affect the Groups business is provided in the Business review.
annually to complete a checklist of the key controls which they are The main features of the risk management processes and system expected to have in place, called Control Navigator.
Its purpose is to ofinternal control operated within the Group are described below.
enable them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
They have them in identifying any controls which may require strengthening been in place throughout the year under review and remain in place and support them in implementing and monitoring action plans to date.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to ensure that it remains relevant to the business Audit and CSR committee framework and covers all applicable key controls.
In addition, at each year end, The Groups audit and CSR committee framework underpins the Group companies and other business units are required to: Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel for the structured flow of information throughout the organisation, with review their system of internal control, confirm whether it committees at various levels covering key individual markets, areas remains effective and report on any material weaknesses and the and the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next level as action being taken to address them: and appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant financial, social, review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business environmental and reputational risks faced by the Company and its Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance subsidiaries are appropriately managed, and that any failings or or conflicts of interest identified.
weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional audit where necessary.
and CSR committee or to the corporate audit committee and, where The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are all appropriate, to the Boards Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate chaired by an Executive Director focus on risks and the control remedial action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
environment within each region and are in turn supported by area The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance and or individual market audit and CSR committees.
A corporate to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and audit committee sits at the same level as the regional committees control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks and focuses on the risks and the control environment within the on Group companies and other business units, and does so against Groups operations which do not fall within the regional an audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which committees remit, for example, head office central functions, global focuses in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
It comprises members of For 2011 as in 2010, the internal audit plan has been prepared on the Management Board and is chaired by a Management Board a top-down basis covering business units, global process reviews, member responsible for one of the Groups Regions to maximise its IT as a separate unit and a focus on the continuing portfolio of independence from central executive management.
The relevant external and internal auditors regularly attend meetings of these committees and have private audiences with members of 66 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Accountability and audit continued Financial reporting controls Review The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing are designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks the application of the Codes principles and compliance with the arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
The Codes provisions with regard to risk management and internal Group Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the control.
The current version of the Guidance applies to listed Group accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its companies for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2006. internal reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise information for the purpose of preparing the Groups financial to, enable the Board and the Audit Committee to monitor the risk statements is signed-off by the senior finance controllers responsible management and internal control framework on a continuing basis for the Groups markets and business units.
In addition, the senior throughout the year and to review its effectiveness at the year end.
finance controllers responsible for the Groups markets and all senior The Board, with advice from its Audit Committee, has completed its managers are required to confirm annually that all information annual review of the effectiveness of the system of risk management relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the Directors and and internal control for the period since 1 January 2010.
No that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is response to requests for information from the external auditors.
satisfied that, where specific areas for improvement have been The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls is identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary assessed through self-certification as part of the Control Navigator remedial action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The Board is exercise described above and ongoing evaluation by internal audit satisfied that the system of risk management and internal control is in the context of the annual audit plan.
The integrity of the Groups in accordance with the Guidance.
public financial reporting is further supported by a number of processes and steps to provide assurance over the completeness and accuracy of the content, including: review by the Chairman, Executive Directors and a number of the Management Board: review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and review and approval by the Board.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 67 Corporate governance CSR Committee Current members Karen fide Segundo Chairman Dr Ana Maria Llopis Dr Gerry Murphy Kieran Poynter Karen fide Segundo Chairman, CSR Committee Corporate social responsibility Summary Terms of Reference Attendance at meetings in 2010 The CSR Committee is responsible for: Meetings reviewing and making appropriate recommendations to the Meetings eligible Name attended to attend Board as regards the Companys management of CSR and the conduct of business in accordance with the Statement of Karen fide Segundo 4 4 Business Principles: 1 Dr Ana Maria Llopis 2 4 monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Dr Gerry Murphy 3 4 strategy for, and management of, significant social, 2 Kieran Poynter 2 2 environmental and reputational issues: 3 reviewing and monitoring the Groups plans for, and progress Sir Nicholas Scheele 1 2 towards, business sustainability: and monitoring the effectiveness of the CSR governance process.
Ana Maria Llopis will cease to be a member of the Committee following The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the December 2010 and minor updates were made with effect Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011. from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available 2.
Kieran Poynter became a member with effect from 1 July 2010. from the Company Secretary and on www.
Sir Nicholas Scheele ceased to be a member with effect from 1 July 2010.
Those Committee members who were absent from one or more meetings were either unable to attend the additional meeting in April or had a long-standing prior engagement.
The CSR Committee is authorised by the Board to review CSR and The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Management Board members responsible for Corporate and Regulatory Affairs and Global Operations sustainability activity within the business.
It is authorised to seek the regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
information it requires from, and require the attendance at any of Meetings were held in parallel with meetings of the Audit Committee from its meetings of, any Director or member of management, and all July 2010, allowing for longer meetings than previously and enabling fuller employees are expected to cooperate with any request made debate on all issues.
It is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent professional advice and secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it considers this necessary.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.
The papers considered by the Committee are available to any Director who is not a member, should they wish to receive them.
The CSR Committee will be reviewing comments made during the 2010 Board evaluation process in relation to its activities and any additional actions relevant to its role and responsibilities will be reported back to the Board and implemented during 2011.
You can read more aboutour CSR at: www.
com CSR 68 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Corporate social responsibility continued Key activities of the CSR Committee in 2010 Youth smoking prevention initiatives.
The CSR Committee held three scheduled meetings in 2010, and Environmental, health and safety measures, including measures one additional meeting was held at the beginning of April to to improve safety culture behaviour throughout the Group.
approve the Companys annual Sustainability Report.
The other Adherence to the Groups International Marketing Standards.
specific items considered by it included: Corporate social investment activities and an improved approach to Corporate Social Investment CSI funding, with CSR governance fewer initiatives but an increased average commitment per Feedback and update reports from the regional audit and CSR initiative, focused on the three themes of sustainable committees.
agriculture, empowerment and civic life see further below.
An analysis of the results of the Control Navigator selfSustainability planning and reporting assessment exercise for the CSR controls.
A review of the CSR Strategy and the focus in 2010 of A review of the key reputational risks identified in the Group embedding sustainability into the Groups functions and Risk Register, the potential impacts and consequences of such developing above-market centres of expertise to support the risks and the current controls in place to address them.
delivery of the sustainability agenda.
A continuing review of the potential reputational impact A review of the methodology for stakeholder mapping and arising from incidents of non-compliance with the Standards of classification and the steps taken since 2008 to simplify the Business Conduct.
CSR policies and compliance An assessment of the 2010 goals and commitments for Human rights and related issues, including a consideration of sustainability reporting and progress made against the 2009 the challenges, risks and opportunities of operating in specific goals and commitments.
countries of potential concern to stakeholders and the Ernst & Youngs Assurance Management report, including measures and controls in place to mitigate risks.
areas of potential improvement highlighted by them and the Initiatives aimed at reducing the use of child labour in tobacco Companys responses to these.
CSR governance Sustainability reporting The CSR Committee is supported at regional and local levels The Companys Sustainability Reports and, prior to 2008, its Social through combined audit and CSR committees.
The structure Reports have detailed its social, ethical and environmental supports the embedding of CSR and sustainability principles across performance and performance against its commitments each year the Group and allows performance against those principles to be since the Companys first Social Report in 2002.
The regional audit and CSR committees meet three reporting, like the social reporting that preceded it, is conducted times annually, and they follow a standard agenda, in order that using a robust methodology, including independent assurance materials and issues which are presented and raised at local and conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, in line with the AA1000 Assurance regional level may feed into Board level discussions, and vice versa.
Engagement with key stakeholders is a major requirement of the Standard and we have continued to hold Statement of Business Principles independently facilitated and assured dialogue with those Our Statement of Business Principles sets out our expectations for stakeholders throughout the year.
the responsible management of the Groups business.
It was developed in 2002 in consultation with stakeholders, supported by The Companys sustainability reporting is based on its sustainability the Institute of Business Ethics.
The Statement comprises three agenda, which was developed in 2007 and focuses on five pillars: principles Mutual Benefit, Responsible Product Stewardship and harm reduction, marketplace, environment, supply chain and Good Corporate Conduct and 18 Core Beliefs which explain in people and culture.
Its aim is to create value for the Companys more detail what each principle means for the Group.
It is available shareholders and other stakeholders by addressing the Groups from the Company Secretary and on www.
com social, environmental and economic impacts.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 69 Corporate governance Starting with the 2009 Report, produced in 2010, a single Group companies are encouraged to focus their CSI activities around Sustainability Report has been produced for the Group, including three themes: balanced scorecards and case studies from some of the Groups Sustainable agriculture: This includes activities such as efforts largest markets.
This approach, together with the information to improve biodiversity and access to water, afforestation, provided on www.
com, aims to provide comprehensive programmes to prevent child labour, grants for agricultural coverage of the Groups sustainability efforts globally.
research or training to help farmers optimise land yields by In April 2010, the Company published its third Sustainability growing additional non-tobacco crops.
These initiatives are Reportoutlining progress in each of the five key elements of its expected to complement the Groups own agricultural, sustainability agenda.
In March 2011, it is publishing its fourth environmental and biodiversity conservation practices.
Sustainability Report, to coincide with publication of this Empowerment: This focuses on communities where we operate, AnnualReport.
providing people with educational opportunities to help them develop, for example through scholarships and information The Company has taken into account the increasing emphasis that is technology training or programmes supporting small businesses being placed on integrated financial and non-financial reporting.
Group companies also Webelieve that it is important to address sustainability issues in the continue to make other important contributions to meet local Annual Report, but we also acknowledge that different audiences needs, such as relief efforts after natural disasters or AIDS prevention.
have differing expectations and requirements.
As a result, we intend Civic life: This encompasses activities that aim to enrich public to continue publishing a separate Sustainability Report which covers and community life, including supporting the arts and in more detail progress against our sustainability agenda, including educational institutions, conserving indigenous cultures and monitoring performance against targets.
In addition to the restoring public spaces.
Sustainability Report and the information provided in this Annual Report, the Company will continue to publish more detailed The major activities currently supported by the Company are the sustainability information on www.
com British American Tobacco Biodiversity Partnership and the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Growing Foundation.
The Company has been included in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Charitable contributions Index for the ninth successive year.
In 2010, the Company was Payments for charitable purposes in 2010 amounted to 15.5 million againincluded in the Platinum sector of the UKs Business in the 2009: 14 million, 2 million of which was paid in the UK Community Corporate Responsibility Index, with a score of 2009: 2 million.
In 2009, it was the first tobacco company to achieve OECD Guidelines Platinum status.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries in which it Corporate social investment operates and in this context, notes the OECD Guidelines for The Company recognises the role of business as a corporate citizen Multinational Enterprises in their current form.
and Group companies have long supported local community and charitable projects.
The Groups approach to corporate social investment CSI is to regard it as an end in itself, rather than as a means of promotion, and Group companies have always been closely identified with the communities where they operate.
70 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Corporate governance statement continued Nominations Committee Current members Richard Burrows Chairman Christine Morin-Postel Sir Nicholas Scheele Dr Gerry Murphy Karen fide Segundo Kieran Poynter Robert Lerwill Anthony Ruys Dr Ana Maria Llopis Richard Burrows Chairman, Nominations Committee Appointments to the Board Summary Terms of Reference Attendance at meetings in 2010 The Nominations Committee is responsible for: Meetings reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Main Meetings eligible Name attended to attend Board and Management Board to ensure that both boards have an appropriate balance of skills, expertise, knowledge Richard Burrows 7 7 and in the case of the Main Board independence: reviewing Sir Nicholas Scheele 7 7 the succession plans for the Executive Directors and members Karen fide Segundo 5 7 of the Management Board: Robert Lerwill 7 7 ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is 1 rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on Dr Ana Maria Llopis 6 7 merit against objective criteria and with due regard for the Christine Morin-Postel 6 7 benefits of diversity, including gender diversity: Dr Gerry Murphy 7 7 making recommendations to the Board on suitable 2 Kieran Poynter 2 2 candidates for appointment as Main Board Directors or as members of the Management Board: and Anthony Ruys 6 7 assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, Notes: and ensuring that Non-Executive Directors undertake that 1.
Ana Maria Llopis will cease to be a member of the Committee following they will have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed in 2.
Kieran Poynter became a member with effect from 1 July 2010.
December 2010 and minor updates were made with effect Those Committee members who were absent from one or more meetings from 1 January 2011.
The full terms of reference are available were unable to attend meetings arranged at short notice.
from the Company Secretary and on www.
com The Chief Executive and Management Board member responsible for Human Resources regularly attend meetings by invitation but are not members.
The Nominations Committee reviews forthcoming retirements at The Nominations Committee will be reviewing comments made least once a year and considers the need to identify candidates to fill during the 2010 Board evaluation process in relation to its activities vacancies on the Board.
This process includes an evaluation of the and any additional actions relevant to its role and responsibilities skills and experience to be looked for in those candidates to ensure willbe reported back to the Board and implemented during 2011. continuing Board balance.
The selection process will generally Terms of appointment to the Board involve interviews with a number of candidates, using where The Executive Directors have rolling contracts of one year.
The appropriate the services of executive search firms specialising in Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the board level recruitment.
Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Details of the The Board continues to take in to account the need for it Companys policy on Executive Directors service contracts and the progressively to refresh its membership over time and is actively terms of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are set out in the seeking one or more further Non-Executive appointments.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 71 Corporate governance Key activities of the Nominations Committee in 2010 The allocation of the responsibility of Chief Information Officer The Nominations Committee held seven meetings in 2010, two of to Ben Stevens, in addition to his role as Finance Director.
which were scheduled and five of which were convened to address Further changes in the composition of the Management Main Board and Management Board succession issues.
The specific Board, including: items considered by the Committee included: the appointment of David Fell as Regional Director, The recruitment of Kieran Poynter and his appointment to the Asia-Pacific: Board as a Non-Executive Director, with the assistance of an the appointment to the Management Board of Des external executive recruitment consultancy.
Naughton in the role of Regional Director, Eastern Europe Paul Adamss retirement from the Board on 28 February 2011 and his subsequent appointment as Group Operations and the process to select his successor as Chief Executive, Director Designate following Peter Taylors decision to including: retire from the Management Board at the end of May 2011: and the appointment of external advisers to facilitate and assist the appointment of Andrew Gray to the extended role of the Committee in its assessment of potential candidates for Regional Director, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, the role of Chief Executive: following the reorganisation of the Groups regions with an updated role profile identifying the skills required for effect from 1 January 2011. the role of Chief Executive: and the results of a benchmarking exercise against the Continuing possible measures to refresh the Board, including externalmarket.
An overview of succession planning for the Executive Directors The selection and appointment of Nicandro Durante as Chief and members of the Management Board.
A review of the general themes arising out of the Chairmans A consideration of the skills and experience required for the one-to-one meetings with each of the Non-Executive Directors role of Chief Operating Officer, the identification of potential on their personal development plans.
candidates for the role and the selection and appointment to the Board of John Daly in the role.
Directors interests and indemnities Non-Executive Directors Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, Karen fide Segundo remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of Robert Lerwill the Company including interests in share options and deferred Christine Morin-Postel shares as at 31 December 2010 are given in the Remuneration Dr Gerry Murphy report.
No Director had any material interest in a contract of Kieran Poynter from 1 July 2010 significance other than a service contract with the Company Anthony Ruys or any subsidiary company during the year.
Sir Nicolas Scheele The Companys practice has always been to indemnify its Directors The Companys Articles of Association also provide that any Director in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to the who has been appointed by the Board since the last Annual General maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, Meeting is required to retire from the Board at the next Annual such indemnities are in force covering any costs, charges, expenses General Meeting and, being eligible, may offer himself for or liabilities which they may incur in or about the execution of their reappointment.
Accordingly, John Daly and Kieran Poynter each duties to the Company or to any entity which is an associated retire and offer themselves for reappointment in accordance with company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, these provisions.
oras a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf of the Non-Executive Directors who serve for a total of more than six years Company or any such associated company.
are subject to a particularly rigorous review.
This was done in 2010 Annual General Meeting 2011 in the case of Robert Lerwill and Sir Nicholas Scheele, both of whom In accordance with the 2010 Code, all directors of FTSE 350 will have served in excess of six years at the time of the Annual General companies should be subject to either election or re-election by Meeting.
Additional service beyond six years is reviewed annually.
In a change to its previous practice The Chairmans letter accompanying the Notice for this years and to meet this requirement, all eligible Directors will be standing Annual General Meeting confirms that the performance of the for re-election or, in the case of John Daly and Kieran Poynter, Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective election for the first time, at this years Annual General Meeting and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as on28 April 2011.
Non-Executive Directors, including commitment of the necessary Chairman time for Board and Committee meetings and other duties.
Richard Burrows Biographical details of the Directors are also provided.
Executive Directors Paul Adams will retire from the Board as an Executive Director and Nicandro Durante Chief Executive from 1 March 2011 Chief Executive on 28 February 2011.
Ana Maria Llopis will retire Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief Information Officer asaNon-Executive Director at the conclusion of the Annual John Daly Chief Operating Officer from 1 September 2010 GeneralMeeting.
