ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 50 Corporate governance The corporate governance section, together with the remuneration report, details how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code and includes additional disclosures as to how the Company has complied with the detailed provisions of the Code.
The directors believe that during the year they have complied in full with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code is publicly available at www.
Directors Composition of the board During the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group was headed by an experienced board of directors consisting of a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and four independent non-executive directors.
As from 1 April 2010, following the retirement of Nicholas Cosh at the end of the financial year, the board has three independent non-executive directors.
The current members of the board, together with their biographical details, are shown on pages 44 and 45.
The nomination committee and the board have been considering succession planning for some time, particularly as a number of long-serving non-executive directors would be retiring at similar times.
In addition to the appointment of John Sievwright during the year, the board is seeking to appoint three new independent non-executive directors during the year ending 31 March 2011.
The board discussed and agreed the skills, knowledge and experience that each appointee would ideally have.
Experience of the markets in which ICAP operates is a requirement but such experience could be derived from a number of other related financial services sectors.
The board recognises that the recruitment of three non-executive directors creates an opportunity to provide input to the board from a greater variety of relevant perspectives than would normally be possible.
Following a selection process, the board appointed leadership advisory firm Heidrick & Struggles to undertake this search on an international basis and the process is well underway with a short list of possible candidates for the first appointment at the selection stage.
Board meetings The board has six board meetings scheduled each year with one meeting focussing on the strategic review.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the board has met on a number of additional occasions to consider other issues including trading performance, the SEC investigation and settlement, acquisitions, approval of share allotments in respect of the scrip dividend scheme and the Companys various option schemes.
The additional board meetings were sometimes called at short notice and any director who was unable to attend a meeting was briefed separately on the discussions at the meeting and their views were sought and considered.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board and its committees during the year ended 31 March 2010 and attendance by directors at those meetings: Board scheduled Board additional Audit and risk Remuneration Nomination meetings meetings committee committee committee Total number of meetings 6 11 6 7 1 Charles Gregson 6 6 11 11 0 1 Michael Spencer 6 6 10 11 0 1 Matthew Lester 6 6 11 11 John Nixon 5 6 9 11 Mark Yallop 5 6 10 11 Nicholas Cosh 6 6 7 11 6 6 6 7 1 1 James McNulty 6 6 10 11 6 6 7 7 1 1 William Nabarro 6 6 9 11 6 6 7 7 1 1 John Sievwright appointed 15 July 2009 5 5 8 9 4 4 6 6 Former director David Puth resigned 15 September 2009 2 2 2 3 2 2 1 1 ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Role of the board Independence of directors The board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for All the non-executive directors are independent of management 51 decision and approval which include: and considered by the board to be free from any business or other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: independence.
significant acquisitions, disposals and investments: In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys articles the Groups annual and half-year reports: of association, all directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment any significant change in accounting policies or practices: and, subsequently, must seek re-election at least once every any interim dividend and recommendation of the final dividend: three years.
the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: Conflicts of interest any changes to the Companys capital structure or its status as In line with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association a listed company: were amended at the 2008 annual general meeting to allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and risk management strategy: and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
The decision to treasury policy.
authorise a conflict of interest can be made only by independent directors those who have no interest in the matter being Information is provided in a timely and regular manner to directors considered.
In making such a decision the directors must act in for all meetings to enable them to exercise their judgement in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the discharge of their duties.
In addition other senior executives the Companys success.
A process has been established whereby attend certain board meetings to make presentations on potential actual and potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and for the acquisitions and to discuss the results and strategies of their appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment businesses.
of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
During 2009 10 All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group this procedure operated effectively.
Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board Induction and continuing professional development procedures and applicable rules are observed.
There is a procedure New directors to the board are provided with appropriate training to enable the directors to obtain independent professional advice and briefings which take into account their individual qualifications in respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
All directors receive, during their term of office, extends to the members of the audit and risk, remuneration and regular briefings on changes and developments in the Groups nomination committees.
The Company maintains liability insurance business and on any legislative and regulatory changes which for its directors and officers.
are relevant to the Group.
There is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of Board evaluation the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman During the year the board evaluated its performance and that is responsible for leadership of the board and ensuring effective of its committees and individual directors.
This was done by communication with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive way of a questionnaire which was completed by each director Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business.
to evaluate effectiveness and accountability and by individual To support the principles of good corporate governance, the meetings with the Chairman.
The collective results were then board manages the Group through board meetings and a number discussed by the board with actions agreed.
of committees, each of which has terms of reference and The Chairmans evaluation was undertaken by James McNulty as meets regularly.
The terms of reference of the audit and risk, the senior independent director in consultation with other directors.
remuneration and nomination committees are available on the Groups website, www.
The minutes of each of the The board has considered and agreed that each of Charles committees are made available to all directors and the board Gregson, Matthew Lester and James McNulty, who are standing receives an update from each of the committees chairman for re-election at the annual general meeting, continue to perform following each committee meeting.
effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Senior independent director Audit and risk committee James McNulty is the senior independent director and provides The following directors served on the committee during the year: an additional contact point for shareholders if the normal contact John Sievwright chairman appointed as chairman channels are inappropriate.
on 1 December 2009 Nicholas Cosh retired 31 March 2010 James McNulty William Nabarro David Puth resigned 15 September 2009 John Sievwright, a chartered accountant and member of the audit and risk committee from 15 July 2009, took over the chair of the audit and risk committee on 1 December 2009 from Nicholas Cosh who had announced his decision to retire as a director of ICAP plc with effect from the end of the financial year.
David Puth was a member of the committee during the year until his resignation on 15 September 2009.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 52 Corporate governance continued All the audit and risk committee members are independent to monitor the mechanisms of internal control of those areas non-executive directors.
The board has satisfied itself that the of risk identified throughout the Group: chairman of the audit and risk committee, and the committee to review and approve the risk appetite methodology: collectively, have recent and relevant financial experience due to to review and recommend to the board approval of the Groups the senior positions they hold or held in other public companies, ICAAP document: to enable the committee to function effectively and to discharge its responsibilities.
to ensure that the global head of risk and the risk function are independent of the business and free to conduct their activities Following recent developments in corporate governance and without management constraint: regulation, the committees remit and structure has been changed and the terms of reference have been expanded in order to ensure to approve the appointment, dismissal and compensation of that the committee, now known as the audit and risk committee, the global head of risk: and can fulfil its revised responsibilities.
to establish the high-level objectives of the global risk team During the year ended 31 March 2010, the committee met six and review performance against these objectives twice a year.
times and this schedule will continue for 2010 11 and reflects the Activities larger remit now covered by the committee.
During the year the committee considered: In addition to the committee members, the meeting, by invitation the annual and half-year financial statements with particular only, is attended by the Chairman, Group Chief Operating Officer, focus on the most appropriate treatment and disclosure of any Group Finance Director, the global head of risk, the group financial new or judgemental matters: controller, the group general counsel, Ernst & Young as internal auditor and representatives from the external auditors.
developments in accounting standards and financial reporting The chairman of the audit and risk committee also maintains and their likely impact on the Groups financial statements with contact with those attendees throughout the year.
At the end of particular regard to the market conditions experienced during at least two of the committee meetings each year representatives this period: from Ernst & Young, as internal auditor, and the external auditors its terms of reference particularly with reference to the Walker are given the opportunity to raise any issues, in private, without reports recommendations on board risk committees: management being present.
audit fees and terms of engagement: Role of the audit and risk committee the policy on usage of the external auditor for non-audit Under its terms of reference, the audit and risk committees main engagements and agreed strategic criteria for when the use responsibilities are: of the external auditor was appropriate: to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements all proposed non-audit assignments undertaken by the external and any announcements relating to the Groups financial auditors with fees in excess of 50,000: performance: reports on the activities of the internal audit function, including to review the Groups internal financial controls and risk the results of internal audits: management systems: the annual internal audit plan: to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: the annual external audit plan: to develop and implement policies on the engagement of the presentations from the global head of risk: external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: distributable reserve and regulatory capital planning: to make recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment post acquisition reviews: and and removal of the external auditors and approve their the whistleblowing arrangements.
remuneration and terms of engagement: to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: to approve the appointment or dismissal of the head of internal audit: to review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: to review the quality and effectiveness of the Groups risk management framework, in particular to ensure that the key risks of the Group including emerging threats are properly assessed and mitigated: ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Evaluation of external auditors Nomination committee During the financial year, the committee reviewed and approved The following directors served on the committee during the year: 53 the proposed audit fee and terms of engagement for the 2009 10 William Nabarro chairman audit and recommended to the board that it proposes to Nicholas Cosh retired 31 March 2010 shareholders that  LLP be re-appointed Charles Gregson as the Groups external auditors for 2010 11.
James McNulty The committee also monitored the balance of audit and non-audit Michael Spencer fees to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the external The committee recommends to the board appointments for the auditors is maintained.
During the year,  roles of Chairman, Group Chief Executive Officer, executive and LLP was one of the main providers of external advice but their non-executive directors.
work was limited to specific areas and the services of other firms were used on an ongoing basis.
Any proposed non-audit Much of this committees activities concerning the appointment assignments, with fees in excess of 50,000, are subject to the of new non-executive directors has been undertaken by the committee chairmans prior approval and the subsequent approval full board.
During the year the committee considered the succession planning As part of its consideration of the annual financial statements, for the board with a particular focus during the first half of the year the committee has reviewed and is satisfied that the auditors have on the appointment of a non-executive director to chair the audit remained independent of the Group during the financial year and and risk committee following Nicholas Coshs decision to retire at continued to do so to the date of this report.
The committee also the end of the financial year.
As a result of an extensive search, received details from  LLP of its own undertaken by the global executive search firm Spencer Stuart, independence procedures and confirmation that, in its opinion, John Sievwright was appointed as a non-executive director.
it remained independent throughout the year.
Executive committees The assessment of the effectiveness of the external audit process In addition to the board committees, the corporate governance for 2008 09 was undertaken following the completion of the framework includes three executive committees the global 2008 09 audit.
The results of this assessment were reviewed by executive management group, group risk and finance.
the audit and risk committee in November 2009.
The assessment Global Executive Management Group GEMG of the effectiveness of the external audit process for 2009 10 will The GEMG consists of the four executive directors of ICAP be conducted in June 2010. and six members of senior management.
It is the main strategic  LLP, and its predecessor organisations, development forum for ICAP and meets six times a year to has been the Companys auditor since it was formed from the review business operations and performance.
New business merger of Garban and Intercapital in 1999.
The committee initiatives are approved by the GEMG which then reviews them considers that the relationship with the external auditors is working on a regular basis.
well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, Group risk committee it has not considered it necessary to require the firm to tender The committee is an executive committee chaired by the Group for the audit work although this is always kept under review.
Chief Operating Officer and comprises non-revenue earning senior The external auditors are required to rotate the lead audit partner managers of the Group.
responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys The committee meets at least six times a year.
The minutes of choice of external auditor.
the meetings are circulated together with the committee papers to members of the board.
Internal control Management is responsible for maintaining an effective system The committee is responsible for ensuring that the Groups risk of internal control with the board being responsible for reviewing management framework, risk appetite, risk strategy and policies its effectiveness.
Details of the steps taken by the committee to are appropriate to the activities of the Group.
The committee review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, reviews the Groups risk exposures and ensures adherence to including its control over financial reporting, are set out in the Group risk policy particularly in relation to credit, market and business review on page 35. operational risk.
Remuneration committee It is the boards responsibility to determine the Groups risk The remuneration report is set out on pages 55 to 62. appetite and identify, monitor and assess the significant risks the Group may be exposed to.
The committee is responsible for developing procedures for managing risk in line with board approved polices and limits.
This includes establishing and maintaining an adequate, sound and appropriate internal control structure, evaluating its effectiveness and promptly identifying material weaknesses and taking corrective steps.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 54 Corporate governance continued Finance committee The committee is an executive committee chaired by the Group Finance Director and includes the Group Chief Operating Officer.
The terms of reference are approved by the board and the committee meets at least six times a year.
The minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the board.
The committee is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the board in relation to matters affecting the structure, financing, tax and treasury aspects of the Group and to ensure compliance with board approved financing, treasury and tax policies.
Relations and dialogue with shareholders The board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group and is very much aware of the importance of maintaining good relations and communications with all its shareholders.
The annual and half-year financial statements, together with the interim management statements and Stock Exchange announcements, are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website, www.
com, as soon as they are released.
Major shareholder and analysts presentations are also made available.
The board recognises that the annual general meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive information on the Groups business performance and to question senior management on any business matter.
All the directors attended the 2009 annual general meeting.
The Group has established a programme of communication with its institutional investors and analysts.
At the time of the announcement of the full and half-year results, presentations are made to analysts, the press and institutional investors.
In addition, there are regular meetings during the year subject to relevant regulatory constraints with analysts and investors to update them on developments in the Groups strategy and performance.
Annual general meeting The notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are made available after the vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Accountability and audit The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out in the directors report on page 49 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is detailed on page 63.
By order of the board Deborah Abrehart Group Company Secretary
