6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text:6661 Impax R&A 2010 Text 31 3 11 13:43 Page 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION This Corporate Governance statement forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide as issued in March 2009.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 the Combined Code of Corporate Governance the Combined Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2008, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, will provide more appropriate information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except as set out below.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The structure of the Board is such that it is considered unnecessary to identify a senior non-executive director other than the Chairman.
All other directors are, however, available to shareholders if they have concerns over issues that they feel have not been dealt with through the normal mode of communication with the Chairman.
THE BOARD Composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of seven non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Mr Bernays and Mr Niven were appointed as directors of the Company upon its incorporation.
Dr Arnott was appointed as a director by the Board on 8 January 2002.
Mr Brown was appointed as a director by the Board on 31 January 2002 and Mr Berry was appointed by the Board on 1 October 2007.
Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett were appointed on 27 January 2011.
All the directors have served during the entire period since their appointment.
The Board believes that during the year ended 31 December 2010 its composition was appropriate for an investment company of this nature and size.
Notwithstanding this, the Board agreed on a programme of refreshment of the Board during the year under review which is detailed further below.
As a result, two new directors have been appointed since the year end and one director will stand down at the Annual General Meeting.
All the directors are independent of the investment 23 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 6661 Proof Event: 7 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
