Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Interests in voting rights Other governance and statutory disclosures Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing Business review Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in the on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
Directors Report a fair review of the business of the Group during As at 28 July 2010, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the financial year ended 30 June 2010 including an analysis of the the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Amount Percent known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Review Identity of person or group owned of class is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have i News UK Nominees Limited 686,021,700 39.14 ii performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006.
Capital Research and Management Company 88,008,696 5.02 ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found in the following sections of the Directors Report.
"i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Voting rights"" below."
Chief Executive Officers statement on page 4 ii Indirect holding.
Performance KPIs on pages 6 to 7 At 28 July 2010, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by News Review of the business on pages 8 to 17 UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Financial review on pages 27 to 33 News Corporation.
As a result of Rupert Murdochs ability to Principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group are appoint certain members of the Board of Directors of the corporate described on pages 23 to 26 trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less Significant trends that could have a material effect on the than 1% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 38.4% of performance of the Group are described on pages 32 to 33 its Class B Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a People matters on pages 21 to 22 beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial Community and environmental matters on pages 18 to 21. ownership of those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns Pages 4 to 54 inclusive together with the sections incorporated by less than 1% of News Corporations Class A Common Stock and an reference consist of a Directors Report that has been drawn up additional 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate less than 1% of English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 39.7% of its Class B connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and Common Stock.
restrictions provided by the law.
The ESOP was established to satisfy awards made to participants Principal activities of the Companys employee share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP British Sky Broadcasting Group plc is the holding company of the have waived the right to dividends payable in respect of the shares British Sky Broadcasting group of companies the Group.
The held by it, except to the extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable Groups principal activities are detailed in the Review of the on each share.
At 30 June 2010, the ESOP had an interest in business on pages 8 to 17.
8,515,344 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Trustees, who are independent of the Company, have full discretion how they vote Results and dividends the ordinary shares held by the ESOP.
The profit for the year ended 30 June 2010 was 878 million 2009: 259 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year Voting rights ended 30 June 2010 of 11.525 pence per ordinary share which, The Companys articles of association provide that subject to any together with the interim dividend of 7.875 pence paid to rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands shareholders on 20 April 2010, will make a total dividend for the every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, year of 19.40 pence 2009: 17.6 pence.
Subject to approval at the and on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 12 November 2010 to which he is a holder.
On a poll votes may be given either personally shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly 22 October 2010. authorised representative.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may Share capital appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
If a The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2010 member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the number comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further details proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the of the Companys share capital is disclosed in notes 25 and 26 to Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, News Corporation and News UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees Limiteds voting ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 43 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE continued Payment policy Other governance and statutory disclosures The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with suppliers continued prior to entering into a contractual relationship.
In the absence of a rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the voting specific agreement, it is the policy of the Group to pay suppliers in agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of accordance with its standard payment terms of 45 days.
The Group circumstances which include the date on which a general offer is had below 45 days purchases outstanding at 30 June 2010 2009: made by an independent person as defined in the voting below 45 days, based on the total amount invoiced by nonagreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
programme trade suppliers during the year ended 30 June 2010.
Programme creditors include significant balances which are not yet Restrictions on transfer of securities contractually due.
In respect of amounts both contractually due There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in the and invoiced, the outstanding number of days purchases is below Company, which is governed by the articles of association and 45 days 2009: below 45 days.
prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the Financial instruments transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with rights.
information on our risk management objectives and policies, and our exposure to price risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and cash flow Variation of rights risks, can be found in notes 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of statements.
shares maybe varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or Charitable contributions and community and with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate environmental activities general meeting of the shareholders.
The Bigger Picture Review, which does not form part of the Annual Report, will be made available online in September 2010, and will Board of Directors provide further information on the Groups commitment to The names and biographical details of the Directors of the corporate responsibility, including community and environmental Company are given on pages 34 to 35.
There were no changes to activities see www.
An overview of the the Board of Directors during the financial year.
Details of the Groups Bigger Picture approach, including community and Directors retiring at the Companys AGM on 22 October 2010 are environmental activities is also provided in the review of the disclosed within the corporate governance report on page 38. business on pages 18 to 21.
The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the During the financial year the Group gave a total of 3,840,454 Company are disclosed within the report on Directors 2009: 2,598,015 in charitable donations in the form of cash.
These donations were for the purpose of supporting Bigger Picture Appointment and retirement of Directors activities focusing on responsibility, environment, sport and arts.
The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
Responsibility: as a responsible business Sky wants to play its Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall part in the communities where it operates and where its then be eligible for reappointment by the Companys shareholders.
The Group gave a total of 552,094 to In accordance with the Companys current articles of association, support community activities during the year.
This figure one-third of the Directors must retire by rotation each year.
In includes matched employee fundraising activities and matched accordance with the Combined Code, any Director who has served payroll giving: more than three three-year terms other than those holding an Environment: the Group gave a total of 1,673,161 to activities executive position is subject to annual reappointment.
that help protect the environment and tackle climate change Directors powers in relation to the Company issuing through charitable donations to organisation such as WWF and its own shares Global Action Plan: The Directors were granted authority at the 2009 AGM to allot Arts: the Group gave 1,089,324 to activities which make the relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 289,000,000.
This arts more accessible through charitable donations to authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
An organisations such as Artichoke and English National Ballet: ordinary resolution to renew the Directors authority will be Sport: the Group gave 525,875 to encourage participation in proposed at the 2010 AGM.
A special resolution will also be sport through the Youth Sport Trust.
proposed to renew the Directors powers to make non-pre-emptive The Groups total community investment cash, time and issues for cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise up to management costs will be published in the Bigger Picture Review a nominal amount of 43,500,000. referred to above.
Significant agreements Political contributions Details of any significant agreements that take effect, alter or Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2010 terminate on a change of control of the Company, are disclosed in amounted to 3,800 2009: nil.
the review of the business on pages 16 and 17.
The Company hosted a drinks reception at the Conservative Party Conference in October 2009 with the Conservative Creative 44 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Industries Network to enable Members of Parliament, peers and Auditors journalists to meet leaders from the creative industries.
The Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their Company does not consider that this was a political donation but willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as due to the wide interpretation of what constitutes a political the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to donation under the Companies Act 2006 it was felt that it was determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming prudent to make a disclosure.
Going concern Annual General Meeting The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Queen Elizabeth II affect its future development, performance and position are set Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P out in the review of the business on pages 8 to 17.
The financial 3EE on 22 October 2010 at 11.00am, is available for download from position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are the Companys corporate website at www.
described in the financial review on pages 27 to 33.
In addition, notes 22, 23 and 24 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long term funding arrangements, financial instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
By order of the Board, As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources Dave Gormley which, together with internally generated cash flows, will continue Company Secretary 28 July 2010 to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its contractual and commercial commitments as set out on pages 95 to 96, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current economic outlook.
After making enquires, the Directors have formed the judgment, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 45
