Governance Governance Governance 71 Governance 71 Corporate governance.
The Group recognises, and is committed to, the highest communication of our financial results for the interim and year standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended end: 31 March 2010, the Group complied with the provisions of the review of current compensation structures: 2006 Financial Reporting Council FRC Combined Code on independence of Non Executive Directors: and Corporate Governance the Code issued by the FRC in June corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Non Executive Directors.
The Group complied with the provision Executive Directors: of A.
3.2 from 23 June 2009 onwards due to the appointment of the development and recommendation of strategic plans for Kevin Parry as an independent Non Executive Director on that consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term: date.
The composition of the Board is kept under regular review objectives and priorities established by the Board: by the Nominations Committee.
A copy of the Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group www.
as determined by the Board: monitoring of operating and financial results against plans The Boards responsibilities and processes and budgets: The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall monitoring the quality of the investment process: and management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to provide developing and implementing risk management systems.
leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and to ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and thus The Chairman of the Board, John Manser, leads the Board in increase shareholder value.
the determination of its strategy and in achieving its objectives.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of approval, which include: the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution and annual budget: of Non Executive Directors and ensures that there is effective assessment of internal controls and risk management: communication with the Groups shareholders.
John Manser approval of the Groups half year and annual financial will not be standing for re election at this years Annual General statements and dividend policy: Meeting having completed his term in office.
Justin Dowley will succeed John Manser as Chairman of the Board.
In accordance presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of with good practice, John Manser was not involved in the selection the Companys position and prospects to the shareholders or appointment of Justin Dowley as his successor.
Justin Dowley through the Chairmans statement, the Managing Directors was selected as the new Chairman due to his effective strategic review, the Business review and the financial performance as Senior Independent Director and as part of ICGs statements: long term succession planning.
As a result neither an external appointments to the Board and Executive Committee: search consultancy nor open advertising was used in relation to capital expenditure decisions: and the appointment of the incoming Chairman.
Christophe Evain succeeded Tom Attwood as Chief Executive changes in employee incentive schemes.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct At each Board meeting there is a full financial and business review charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable which includes the comparison of performance to date against to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Boards previously approved annual budget.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by a Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack, committee called the Executive Committee who enable him to at least five days prior to each meeting which incorporates a carry out the responsibilities delegated to him by the Board.
formal agenda together with supporting papers for items to be The Committee comprises the four Executive Directors and is discussed at the meeting.
Further information is obtained by the chaired by Tom Attwood.
The Committee meets on a regular Board from the Executive Directors and other relevant members basis to consider operational matters and the implementation of senior management, as the Board, particularly its Non of the Groups strategy with no one Director being able to Executive Directors, considers appropriate.
significantly affect the running of the Company without The principal matters considered by the Board during the year consulting his colleagues.
included: the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: review of the Compliance policies: regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas of concern: 72 72 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance.
Senior Independent Director Board performance Justin Dowley holds the position of Senior Independent Director In line with the requirements of the Combined Code, the Board of the Company.
In accordance with the Combined Code, reviews its own performance annually using a predetermined any shareholder concerns not resolved through the existing template designed as a tool to facilitate the evaluation process.
mechanisms for investor communication can be conveyed to The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a the Senior Independent Director.
Upon the appointment of whole, the functioning of the Executive Committee, the evaluation Justin Dowley as Chairman of the Board, the position of the of individual Directors and includes a review of the effectiveness Senior Independent Director will be held by Kevin Parry.
The Board considers the results of the performance evaluation when making its recommendations regarding the re election of Directors.
Board of Directors The Board does not consider it necessary to employ the As at 31 March 2010, the Board comprised four Executive services of an external third party to conduct the evaluation Directors, an independent Non Executive Chairman and five process.
A review was performed in September 2009 and the Non Executive Directors of whom all five are independent.
Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees, The Non Executive Directors are as follows: Chairman and Directors were satisfactory.
John Manser was appointed a Non Executive Director in January 2001 and Non Executive Chairman in May 2001.
Election and re election of Directors James Nelson was appointed a Non Executive Director in One third of the Directors retire by rotation each year in May 2001. accordance with the Articles of Association and all Directors are re elected at least once every three years.
Franois fide Mitry, Justin Dowley was appointed a Non Executive Director in James Nelson and Philip Keller retire by rotation at the February 2006. forthcoming Annual General Meeting and all shall be standing Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed a Non Executive Director for re election.
Any Director appointed during the year must in March 2007. offer himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Kevin Parry was appointed as a Non Executive Director in In accordance with this provision Peter Gibbs will retire and shall June 2009. stand for re election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Directors and Peter Gibbs was appointed as a Non Executive Director in terms of reference for the Committees are available for inspection March 2010. at the Companys registered office during normal business hours, The Non Executive Directors are considered to be of sufficient until the close of the AGM.
calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the The Board recommends that Franois fide Mitry, James Nelson decision making process.
and Philip Keller should be re elected to the Board because, The Board meets at least six times a year with additional based upon a formal performance evaluation during the year, their meetings being held as required.
performance continues to be effective.
The Board recommends The table below shows the number of Board and Committee that Peter Gibbs should be re elected to the Board because his meetings held during the year and the attendance record of skills and experience has already proved valuable to the effective individual Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Board and Committee meetings Company Secretary and may take independent professional Audit Remuneration Nomination advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their Board Committee Committee Committee duties.
Total meetings held 9 3 8 6 The Board is supported in its decisions by three principal Tom Attwood 8 3 3 5 committees, which are described below: Tom Bartlam 4 1 1 2 Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by Justin Dowley, Jean-Daniel Camus 8 3 8 6 consists of five 2009: three independent Non Executive Justin Dowley 8 3 7 5 Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, Christophe Evain 8 3 1 Peter Gibbs, James Nelson and Kevin Parry.
John Manser is Peter Gibbs 1 1 1 not a member of the Audit Committee but is invited to attend the Philip Keller 9 3 8 meetings.
The Executive Directors are not members of the Audit John Manser 9 3 5 6 Committee but are invited to attend.
Deloitte LLP, the Companys auditor, is also invited to attend and has direct access to Franois fide Mitry 8 2 6 Committee members.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman James Nelson 9 3 8 6 has recent and relevant financial experience as do other members Kevin Parry 5 2 2 3 of the Committee.
Attended these meetings but is not on the Committee.
Governance Governance Governance 73 Governance 73 The Committee meets regularly, at least twice a year, and is evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external responsible for: auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process: met with the external auditors in the absence of management: selecting and recommending the appointment of the external auditors to the Board, approving their terms of reference and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment of fees: the Group: reviewing the performance of the external auditors and ensuring reviewed the Risk Management of and Operational Control over appropriate rotation of audit partner: the Funds under Management: and acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and reviewed and approved the updated ICAAP.
giving input to the Boards review of the Companys internal Remuneration Committee The Committee, chaired by James control and risk management systems and procedures: Nelson, consists of five 2009: three independent Non Executive reviewing the independence of the external auditors and the Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, relationship between audit and non audit work performed by James Nelson, Peter Gibbs and Kevin Parry.
John Manser is not the external auditors.
Procedures are in place to ensure that a member of the Remuneration Committee but is invited to attend all significant non audit work performed by the auditors is the meetings.
The Committee supports the Board in determining approved in advance by the Committee and they assess the level of remuneration of the Chairman and reviews the whether such appointments impair, or appear to impair, the remuneration policy applicable to senior management.
Further auditors judgement or independence.
The Audit Committee details regarding remuneration policy and payments made can also undertakes an annual evaluation to assess the be found in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the 76 to 89. effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration Nominations Committee The Committee, chaired by relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The results John Manser, consists of six 2009: four independent Non of the evaluation were last reported to the Board in March Executive Directors, these being Jean-Daniel Camus, 2010.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte LLP is shown in Justin Dowley, Peter Gibbs, Kevin Parry, James Nelson and note 9 on page 105: John Manser.
reviewing the annual and interim accounts before they are The Committee is responsible for considering the composition presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues of the Board to ensure that the balance of its membership as arising from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of between Executive and Non Executive Directors is appropriate.
disclosures: compliance with applicable accounting and legal Appointments of Executive and Non Executive Directors are standards: issues regarding a significant element of judgement: made as necessary as a result of discussions by the Committee and the statements on internal controls and business risk and are subject to full Board approval and election or reelection at assessment: and a general meeting of the shareholders.
reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio on a six monthly basis: and reviewing and approving the Relationships with shareholders Companys whistleblowing policy: The Company recognises the importance of communication reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and with its shareholders, which it achieves through interim for handling, in confidence, allegations from whistleblowers and annual reports and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, and to ensure these procedures allow proportionate and Finance Director, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit independent investigation of such matters and appropriate and Nominations Committees will be available to answer follow up action: shareholders questions at the AGM.
The Board is willing to enter into a dialogue with institutional reviewing managements and the internal risks reports on the shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders reporting and risk management, including non financial risk and the dissemination of inside information.
The Board as a whole management: and is kept fully informed of the views and concerns of the major monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the shareholders.
When requested to do so, Non Executive Directors Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim will attend meetings with major shareholders.
management statements, and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant Internal control financial reporting issues and judgements which they contain.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys internal During the year the Audit Committee: control system and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
Such a system of control is in place to give reasonable, but not reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions disclosures comprised in the interim and annual financial are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors statements of the Group and reviewed the scope of the and irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a external audit plan and audit findings: timely period.
74 74 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance.
the identification of the major business risks facing the Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of Company and the development of appropriate policies for the matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees, management of those risks.
The Board recognises that the the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over internal control system is designed to manage rather than appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: issues.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation the employment of experienced and professional staff of the of authority.
highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan allotted responsibilities: and budget.
In addition there are established procedures strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the and processes in place for the making of investments and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic planning and controlling of expenditure.
The Board also receives framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually regular reports from the Executive Committee on the Companys to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are operational and financial performance, measured against the approved by the Board: annual budget as well as regulatory and compliance matters.
a detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and The Company has in place arrangements whereby employees comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned may raise matters of concern in confidence about possible performance are provided to the Board by the Groups finance improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
function: The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but has decided that because of the nature of the regular treasury reports are made to the Board which analyse current internal control system and size of the Company, it cannot the funding requirements of the Company, track liquidity be justified at present.
The Board will review this decision next and monitor the Companys compliance to its interest and year.
The Board undertook a formal annual assessment of the risk exchange rate policies: management and control arrangements in May 2009 in order to a compliance and legal function whose role is to monitor and form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal report to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance: control.
The Board also authorised the Executive Committee a well defined procedure governing the approval, monitoring to undertake a special review of the risks and internal control and sale of investments incorporating appropriate levels of systems with a view to build a plan to assist the growth of the authority and post investment reviews: and Companys business.
The Executive Committee, assisted by consultants, commenced the project in January and it is expected regular reports are made on the Companys fund management to be completed by mid 2010. activities including new fundraising, conflicts of interest and The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise portfolio performance.
effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and that, up to the date of the approval of the Directors report and financial statements, the Board continues to apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The key elements of this process are: core values, company standards and controls together comprise the Companys high level principles and controls, with which all staff are expected to comply: manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable to all business units:
