DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE continued The full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by the Corporate governance report Board, can be found on the Companys corporate website at The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of www.
corporate governance in its management of the Group and when The Chairman accounting to shareholders.
The management of the Company The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring values an effective long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
to the wider range of stakeholders, whilst being accountable for the This includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the pursuit of its objectives for the benefit of the Companys members Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
of the Chairman include the following: The Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 Combined Code sets out the standards of good practice in the form of to encourage and ensure effective communication with principles and provisions on how companies should be directed and shareholders, and ensure shareholder views are communicated controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial to the Board as a whole: Services Authority requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of all to section 1 of the Combined Code, how they have applied its main Directors, and of Non-Executive Directors in particular: principles and whether they have complied with its provisions to create an environment which engenders constructive throughout the financial year.
relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: The Board considers that throughout the year ended 30 June 2010, to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Company was out effectively and efficiently: compliant with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys This section of the Annual Report along with the report on strategy and in the achievement of its objectives: Directors remuneration on pages 46 to 54 and other governance to ensure Board committees are properly established, composed and statutory disclosures on pages 43 to 45 provide details of how and operated: and the Company has applied the main principles during the year ended 30 June 2010.
Further information on the Combined Code is to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director www.
The Board has appointed one Non-Executive Director, Nicholas The Board Ferguson, to act as Senior Independent Director.
The Senior The Board currently comprises fourteen Directors, made up of two Independent Director meets with institutional shareholders and Executive Directors and twelve Non-Executive Directors.
A majority representative bodies throughout the year and is available to of eight Non-Executive Directors are determined to be assist shareholders in resolving concerns should alternative independent in compliance with the Combined Code.
They bring a channels be inappropriate.
Nicholas Ferguson, the Senior wide range of experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and Independent Director, was also appointed Deputy Chairman of the carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Board with effect from 16 June 2010.
Non-Executive Directors provide a strong independent element and The Chief Executive Officer a foundation for good corporate governance.
Biographies of each The CEO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, of the Directors are set out on pages 34 to 35 and identify those advancing long-term shareholder value, supported by the Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the meaning of the Combined Code.
Prior to appointment, and on an management team.
He is accountable and responsible to the Board annual basis, each board member receives and completes a for the management and operation of the Company.
He is also involved in the management of the social and environmental questionnaire to determine factors that may affect independence responsibilities of the Company.
The duties of the CEO include the according to the Combined Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining whether a director is following: independent in character and judgment, and whether there are to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could management and operation of the Group: appear to affect, the Directors judgment.
to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and attainment of approved objectives and to recommend such collectively accountable under the law for the proper stewardship plans and programmes to the Board as appropriate: of the Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a directors and to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining officers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs when high business standards generally: the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient Executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship of operation of all business units: a FTSE 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external nonto establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and executive FTSE 100 appointment and retain any payments in potential shareholders, and major external bodies: respect of such appointments.
to keep the Board informed on all matters of material The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and have been so importance: and since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994. to chair meetings of the Executive Committee.
36 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms These Directors, who constitute a majority of the Board, intend to Non-Executive Directors exercise their rights and powers to manage the governance of the The dates on which the Non-Executive Directors initial service Board during this period in the best interests of all shareholders.
agreements letters of appointment commenced and current expiry This includes taking such steps within their power as they consider dates are as follows: appropriate to regulate the attendance of Directors connected Expiry date of current with News Corporation at meetings of the Board or any committee Commencement date letter of appointment of the Board and receipt of information relating to the Company by ii David DeVoe 15 December 1994 22 October 2010 those Directors that are deemed relevant to the Proposal.
These ii David Evans 21 September 2001 22 October 2010 arrangements will continue for the duration of the Proposal or until Nicholas Ferguson 15 June 2004 October 2012 the successful completion of any transaction contemplated by the Andrew Higginson 1 September 2004 October 2012 Proposal the Offer Period.
The Offer Committee met on six ii Allan Leighton 15 October 1999 22 October 2010 occasions between 10 June and 15 June 2010.
Thomas Mockridge 10 February 2009 October 2012 i James Murdoch 7 December 2007 22 October 2010 Board Practices Jacques Nasser 8 November 2002 October 2012 The Board met five times during the year to review appropriate Dame Gail Rebuck 8 November 2002 October 2012 i strategic, operational and financial matters.
Attendance of the Daniel Rimer 7 April 2008 22 October 2010 ii Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991 22 October 2010 current Directors at Board meetings and committee members at Lord Wilson of Dinton 13 February 2003 October 2011 meetings of the committees on which they served during the year is set out in the table below: These letters of appointment will expire on the day of the Companys AGM in either 2011 or 2012.
The date of the 2011 and 2012 AGMs are yet to be agreed.
Corporate Governance The Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial term of three years, and Bigger subject to reappointment by shareholders following appointment, Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Picture subsequent reappointment by shareholders, and Companies Act Number of meetings provisions relating to the removal of Directors.
In addition, held in year 5 4 4 1 2 reappointment for a further term is not automatic, but may be Director mutually agreed.
The Companys articles of association require that iv v James Murdoch, Chairman 5 1 one third of the Board retires by rotation each year and stands for Jeremy Darroch, CEO 5 reappointment by shareholders.
Andrew Griffith, CFO 5 Notes: David DeVoe 5 i vi David Evans 5 3 i Non-Executive Directors retiring by rotation and offering themselves for i ii Nicholas Ferguson 5 4 1 reappointment by shareholders at the Companys next AGM to be held on iii vii 22 October 2010.
Andrew Higginson 43 iii Allan Leighton 54 ii David DeVoe, Allan Leighton and Arthur Siskind are subject to annual Thomas Mockridge 5 reappointment by shareholders in accordance with requirement A.
7.2 of the i viii Combined Code as they have served as Non-Executive Directors for longer than Jacques Nasser 4 3 iii iv nine years.
David Evans will have served as a Non-Executive Director for nine years Dame Gail Rebuck 54 2 in September 2010, and will therefore be subject to annual reappointment from the i Daniel Rimer 5 2 Companys forthcoming AGM to be held on 22 October 2010. ii Arthur Siskind 5 1 ii iv Lord Wilson of Dinton 5 1 2 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain a notice period.
The letters of appointment are available for Notes: inspection at the Companys registered office address during i Remuneration Committee member.
ii Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee member.
The Company Secretary iii Audit Committee member.
The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and is iv The Bigger Picture Committee member.
responsible for ensuring the Board is supplied with all necessary v James Murdoch was unable to attend a meeting of The Bigger Picture Committee due to a prior News Corporation business engagement.
information in a reliable, timely manner.
The Company Secretary vi David Evans was unable to attend a Remuneration Committee meeting due to the ensures good communication between the Board, Board volcanic ash disruption.
He facilitates Directors vii Andrew Higginson was unable to attend a Board meeting and an Audit Committee induction and training.
meeting due to a family bereavement.
News Corporation proposal viii Jacques Nasser was unable to attend a Board meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting due to a meeting of the BHP Billiton Board, of which he is Following an approach by News Corporation on 10 June 2010 Chairman.
relating to a possible offer for the entire issued share capital of the In accordance with best practice, the independent Non-Executive Company that it does not already own, the Board passed a Directors of the Board held separate meetings during the year.
resolution to appoint a committee comprising the Independent Directors and the Executive Directors the Offer Committee with Board role authority to exercise all powers of the Board in relation to a A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination possible offer and any matters relevant to the News Corporation and or approval is in place, which includes: proposal the Proposal.
The Offer Committee is chaired by approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: Nicholas Ferguson.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 37 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE continued are subject to annual reappointment in accordance with the Corporate governance report Combined Code.
continued During the year, the Directors carried out a full evaluation of the a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
the Group: The evaluation consists of each Director meeting individually with approval of the interim and final results: the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
The evaluation confirmed that the Board was satisfied approval of any dividend policy: with the Boards overall performance.
The Non-Executive Directors changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including also meet separately without the Chairman and Executive Directors reductions of capital and share buy-backs: present to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement Following this years review, the Corporate Governance and or any series of related commitments or arrangements which, Nominations Committee and Board have confirmed that all whether budgeted or unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably Directors standing for reappointment at the forthcoming AGM involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal to continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate value: their roles.
the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement Jeremy Darroch, Andrew Griffith, James Murdoch and Daniel Rimer or any series of related commitments or arrangements with retire from the Board by rotation, and being eligible, offer News Corporation, any of its subsidiaries, or a related party themselves for reappointment at the Companys AGM on which involves, or could reasonably involve, the payment or 22 October 2010.
David DeVoe, Allan Leighton and Arthur Siskind receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of are subject to annual reappointment in accordance with 25 million in aggregate value: requirement A.
7.2 of the Combined Code, as they have served as approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a Non-Executive Directors for longer than nine years.
David Evans general meeting: will have served as a Non-Executive Director for nine years in changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, September 2010 and will therefore be subject to annual following, if applicable, recommendations from any committee to reappointment from the Companys 2010 AGM.
which the Board delegates consideration of such issues: Board Committees appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the Terms of reference for the governance of the Board committees can CEO: and be found on the Companys corporate website.
determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities to Board The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate Ferguson Chairman, David Evans, Jacques Nasser and Daniel Governance and Nominations and The Bigger Picture committees, Rimer, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors, in as set out below.
Directors receive Board and committee papers compliance with the Combined Code.
Daniel Rimer was appointed several days in advance of Board and committee meetings.
In as a member of the committee by the Board on 27 January 2010. addition, the Board members have access to external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly defined terms of reference, meets at least twice a year, and takes advice from the A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly CEO and independent consultants as appropriate in carrying out its basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
Following publication of the annual report, meetings and chaired by the CEO and comprises the CFO and other Senior round-table discussions are arranged between the Remuneration Executives from within the Group.
Committee and institutional shareholders to discuss remuneration Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an policy and aspects of the Committees report on Directors induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman reports process involves meeting with all of the Companys Executive regularly to the Board on its activities.
This facilitates their James Murdoch and David DeVoe have a standing invitation to understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
The Directors are also provided with copies of the attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a nonCompanys corporate governance practices and procedures.
Directors regularly receive additional information from the The report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 46 to Company between Board meetings, including a monthly report 54.
The report on Directors remuneration will be put forward for an updating the Directors on the performance of the Group.
Where advisory shareholder vote at the 2010 AGM.
appropriate additional training and updates on particular issues are arranged.
All of the Directors are required to retire and offer themselves for reappointment at least once in every three years.
Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than nine years on the Board 38 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee The Bigger Picture Committee The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is chaired On 16 June 2009, the Board established The Bigger Picture by Lord Wilson of Dinton and its other members are Nicholas Committee as a Committee of the Board.
The Bigger Picture Ferguson and Arthur Siskind.
The majority of the members of the Committee the Committee manages the Companys corporate committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance responsibility and community engagement programme which the with the Combined Code.
The Chairman reports regularly to the Company has named The Bigger Picture.
Its main duties include: The Committee is chaired by Dame Gail Rebuck, and its other members include Lord Wilson of Dinton and James Murdoch.
The the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, of Committee replaced the Bigger Picture Steering Group and met candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise: twice during the financial year.
The Chairman of the Committee the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The main duties of Board, taking into consideration the present balance of skills, the Committee include: knowledge and experience on the Board: reviewing and approving the Bigger Picture strategy: the regular review of the structure, size and composition of the Board and to recommend any changes to the Board or reviewing the reputational risk register and assigning clear roles succession planning: and responsibilities for ensuring effective mitigation of identified risks: the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out clearly what is expected of new appointees to the Board, in seeking external stakeholders views on the Bigger Picture terms of time commitment, term of office and committee service strategy and performance: as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, including reviewing and approving the annual reporting of Bigger Picture details of the Companys corporate governance policies and activities: directors and officers liability insurance cover: and monitoring progress in achieving Bigger Picture objectives and the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable key performance indicators: Corporate Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
ensuring the resources and skills are available to implement the The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee led the Bigger Picture strategy: and evaluation of the Board that was completed during the year as providing the Board with an overview of the social, environmental discussed earlier in this report.
and ethical impacts of the Companys activities and how they are The Committee assists the Board by keeping the composition of being managed.
The Committee also keeps under review An overview of the Companys corporate responsibility policies, the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and length of activities and Bigger Picture approach is provided on pages 18 to 21 service.
Following the Proposal from News Corporation the of the Directors report Business review Corporate Committee has decided that a period of stability is required and responsibility.
that the current Independent Non-Executive Directors have the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience required to Audit Committee manage the Board through the Offer Period in the best interests of The Audit Committee the Committee, which consists exclusively all shareholders.
of Independent Non-Executive Directors in compliance with the Combined Code, has clearly defined terms of reference as laid down The Committee also reviewed the independence of the Nonby the Board.
The composition of the Committee is currently Allan Executive Directors and recommended to the Board that there be Leighton, Dame Gail Rebuck and Andrew Higginson.
Allan Leighton no changes to the independent status of the current Nonresigned as Chairman and Andrew Higginson assumed the role with Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors who are effect from 29 July 2009.
Allan Leighton remains a member of the considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified on Committee and there have been no other changes to the pages 34 to 35.
The Boards criteria for determining whether a Noncomposition of the Committee during the year.
The CFO and Executive Director is independent are set out in the Memorandum representatives from the external auditor and the internal audit on Corporate Governance which can be found on the Companys department attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Committees review took into consideration CEO and other business and finance executives attend meetings the fact that Allan Leighton had served on the Board for nine years from time to time.
The Committee Chairman reports regularly to the in October 2008 and David Evans will have served on the Board for Board on its activities.
3.1 of the Combined Code suggests that serving more than nine years could be relevant to the David DeVoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to determination of a Non-Executive Directors independence.
The attend meetings of the Committee.
Their attendance at these Committee concluded that Mr Leighton and Mr Evans continued to meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
The demonstrate the essential characteristics of independence Committees duties include: expected by the Board and that there are no relationships or making recommendations to the Board in relation to the circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, appointment, reappointment and removal of the external their judgment.
7.2. of the auditors and discussing with the external auditors the nature, Combined Code, Mr Leighton and Mr Evans will be subject to annual scope and fees for the external auditors work: reappointment at the Companys AGM in 2010.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 39 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE continued Internal control Corporate governance report considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls continued over financial reporting: reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding reviewed the internal audit departments resources and annual the approval, or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and audit plan: annual financial statements of the Group: reviewed quarterly reports from internal audit on the results of reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: its audit work and managements implementation of its reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: recommendations: reviewing the Groups treasury policies: reviewed quarterly reports from internal audit on the status of recommending the appointment of the Groups Director of the 2009 10 Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 assessment Internal Audit: programme: reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal evaluated the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
audit function: External Audit Matters monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups received regular reports from the external auditor: internal audit function: reviewed and approved the 2009 10 audit work plan: approving all non-audit services provided by the Groups external received regular updates on the use of non-audit services auditors in accordance with the Groups policy: provided by the external auditor and ensured that all fees were monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: approved in accordance with the Groups policy: News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, is reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the external a major shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee receives, auditor: on a quarterly basis, a schedule of all transactions between approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement companies within the News Corporation Group and the Group, letter of the external auditor.
and any other related party transactions, showing all transactions which have been entered into during the year and Other which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value: reviewed quarterly security updates which include whistleCommittee approval is required for the entering into by the Group blowing: of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related reviewed quarterly related party transactions reports: commitments or arrangements with News Corporation or any of reviewed the Companys US listing and recommended its subsidiaries, or any other related party which involves or could deregistration to the Board: reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group of reviewed the Groups Risk Register.
amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding 25 million in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any The Committee also received updates from finance departments transaction in excess of 25 million in aggregate value must be across the Group, the Director of Group Taxation, the Chairman of submitted to the Committee and, if approved by the Committee, the Data Governance Committee and the Group Head of Health must also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
and Safety during the year.
The Committee members have considerable financial and business The external auditors have attended all meetings of the Committee experience and the Board considers that the membership as a during the year.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management has whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to direct access to the Committee Chairman and the external audit discharge its functions.
In addition, the Board has determined that partner.
each member of the Committee has sufficient accounting or Internal control and risk management related financial management expertise as required by the UK The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk The Committee met four times during the financial year.
Meeting management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems agendas were organised around the Companys financial reporting are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of cycle and items covered are as follows: failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, Financial management and reporting but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the received regular updates from the CFO on the financial significant risks faced by the Group has been established, in performance and financial management of the Group: accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on reviewed the Companys Annual Report, half-yearly results and internal control issued in September 1999 and updated by the interim management statements: Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process has been reviewed the Groups accounting policies: in place for the year ended 30 June 2010 and up to the date on received quarterly reports from the treasury function on the which the financial statements were approved.
funding, liquidity and operational capabilities of the Group and The Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness compliance with treasury policies.
of the operation of the Groups systems of internal control and risk 40 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms management during the year and this review has been carried out those services for which the specific approval of the Audit for the year ended 30 June 2010 and up to the date on which the Committee is required before the auditors are permitted to financial statements were approved.
This review relates to the provide the service.
Company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to joint The policy defines the types of services falling under each category ventures.
The Committee meets on at least a quarterly basis with and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal the Groups Director of Audit and Risk Management and the approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any external auditors.
An analysis of all services provided by the external There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and auditors is reviewed by the Committee on a quarterly basis.
the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is For the year ended 30 June 2010, the Committee has discussed the approved by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget matter of audit independence with Deloitte LLP, the Groups through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
Monthly reports on external auditors, and has received and reviewed confirmation in performance are provided to the Board and the Group reports to writing that, in Deloitte LLPs professional judgment, Deloitte LLP is shareholders each quarter.
Each area of the Group carries out risk independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory and assessments of its operations and ensures that the key risks are professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit addressed.
engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the The Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk objectivity and independence of Deloitte LLP was not in any way management to the Groups operating management and to the impaired by either the nature of the non-audit related services Committee.
undertaken during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged, or any other facts or circumstances.
There were no services provided Disclosure controls and procedures during the year that were not either pre-approved by the Audit The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and Committee or for acceptable services up to the value of 50,000, systems that are designed to ensure that information required to approved by the CFO with subsequent approval by the Audit be disclosed as part of the Companys UK listing obligations is Committee, in accordance with the Groups policy.
accumulated and communicated to management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditors required disclosures.
incumbents since 2002 is kept under review.
The Committee has approved the external auditors remuneration and terms of The Company has established a disclosure committee.
The engagement and is fully satisfied with the performance, objectivity committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members and independence of the external auditors.
The Committee has consist of senior managers from group finance, legal and investor recommended that a resolution to reappoint the external auditors relations.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality of as the Companys statutory auditors be proposed at the information including inside information and, on a timely basis, Companys forthcoming AGM.
The external auditors are required to determination of the disclosure and treatment of such information.
rotate the audit partner responsible for the engagement every five The committee also has responsibility for overseeing the process years.
The current lead partner will be standing down after the for the formal review of the contents of the Companys Annual 2009 10 audit and a new lead partner will be in place for the Report.
The Company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Companys management, including the Conflicts of Interest CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation these disclosure controls, procedures and systems at 30 June 2010. before taking up any position with another company that conflicts, Based on that evaluation, the CEO and CFO of the Company have or may possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The concluded that the Companys disclosure controls and procedures Companys articles of association contain provisions to allow the are effective.
Directors to authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
Changes in internal controls All existing external appointments for each Director have been No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting authorised by the Board and each authorisation is set out in a has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2010 that has Conflicts Register.
Directors are required to notify the Board of materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the potential conflicts so that they can be considered, and if Groups internal control over financial reporting.
appropriate, authorised by the Board.
In addition the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee conducts an annual Use of external auditors review of Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditors of audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee reviewed between: the Boards conflicts during the financial year and concluded that conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process those services which the auditors are not permitted to provide: for authorisation is operating effectively.
The Corporate those services which are acceptable for the auditors to provide Governance and Nominations Committee and the Board will and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a Committee: and regular basis.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 41 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE continued practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just Corporate governance report those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by continued the Combined Code, all resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against and those Data Governance withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were The Company established a Data Governance Committee the indicated at the meeting and the final results were released to the Committee during the 2008 09 financial year.
The Committee London Stock Exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
reports to the Audit Committee and a committee of senior The announcement was also made available on the Companys management, which is chaired by the CEO.
The Committee has the corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form and the role of ensuring that appropriate procedures and controls are in announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote place to ensure that the Group processes personal data in withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the accordance with Data Protection laws, and that individuals are able calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the to exercise their rights under such laws.
A set of policies has been resolution.
updated and further developed under the Committee to outline and promote consistent standards and practices in the collection Directors responsibilities and use of personal data across the Group.
The policies also set out The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 55. the responsibilities of employees in managing personal data and the escalation process to be followed, should employees become aware of any breach of policy.
Communication with shareholders Presentations and webcasts on the development of the business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on pages 114 to 115 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website.
The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year results announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and investors following the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results, and on occasion, following the announcement of the fourth quarter results, and presentations are made during the year to many existing or potential shareholders.
During the year, in particular following the proposal from News Corporation, various members of the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, met with institutional shareholders and representative bodies, reinforcing the continuation of open dialogue and discussion of strategy between the Board and its shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to attend if required.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2009 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows best 42 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
