Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement The Board believes that good corporate governance at all levels within the Group is fundamental to the success of the business.
It expects that the Company will comply with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, published in May 2010, throughout the financial year commencing 1 January 2011.
The corporate governance statement provides the detail as to how good corporate governance has operated within the Group in 2010.
Key topics covered are the work of the Board and Committees: internal control and risk management: and environmental, social and governance matters.
Our business model carries particular risks inherent in a fast growing business operating in emerging markets and effective governance and Board oversight is a crucial control.
Introduction This constitutes the corporate governance statement pursuant to Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
It explains how the Company applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 in the financial year ending on 31 December 2010.
The Combined Code is available on the FRCs website at www.
Statement of compliance with the Combined Code The Board is of the opinion that the Company complied with all the provisions in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout 2010 with one exception.
1.1: The International Personal Finance plc Incentive Plan provided a one-off rather than phased incentive to the senior executive team in the three-year period following the demerger July 2007 to July 2010.
This was designed to incentivise them to achieve the Companys plans and strategic targets during this critical period in the development of the Company.
All outstanding awards under the Incentive Plan lapsed on 16 July 2010 and it ceased to operate on that date.
The Company therefore complied with Code provision B.
Structure Board Executive Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Risk Advisory Group 62 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance The Board Members and attendance The Board leads and controls the Company.
Two directors were appointed and two retired in 2010 on the dates set out in the notes to the table below.
There were meetings on seven scheduled days and four additional meetings.
The members and their attendance at Board meetings in 2010 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 11 11 David Broadbent Finance Director 11 11 Charles Gregson Non-executive director 11 10 Tony Hales Non-executive director 11 11 John Harnett Chief Executive Officer 11 11 Edyta Kurek Non-executive director 10 9 John Lorimer Non-executive director 4 3 Nicholas Page Non-executive director 11 11 Ray Miles Non-executive director 7 7 # Craig Shannon Executive Director 8 8 Charles Gregson missed one meeting as he was on holiday.
Edyta Kurek was appointed to the Board on 15 February 2010 and missed one meeting due to a prior business commitment.
John Lorimer was appointed to the Board on 12 May 2010 and missed one meeting due to a prior engagement.
Ray Miles ceased to be a director on 12 May 2010.
# Craig Shannon ceased to be a director on 6 August 2010.
In addition to the Board meetings, the Board held a strategy retreat in June 2010 which was attended by all the directors.
Governance framework The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include: Group strategy: approval of results: approval of budgets: approval of dividends: approval of major transactions: treasury policies: Board appointments: health and safety and environmental policy: corporate governance: annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: approval of directors conflicts of interest: and certain credit policies: namely policies in respect of repeat lending, provisioning, write-off and changes to product structure and pricing.
The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the annual general meeting AGM and Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for all executive matters apart from those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees and will delegate accordingly.
There are five principal Board Committees.
Their written terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 63 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Chairman The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain and a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
There were no changes to his significant commitments in 2010.
Non-executive directors The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed period of three years.
The initial period may be extended for a further period, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office and are available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Charles Gregson, has been formally determined by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Although Charles Gregson has only been a member of this Board since demerger in 2007, he previously served on the board of Provident Financial plc alongside John Harnett.
The Board therefore carefully considered the position and concluded that, with effect from the one-year extension of his term of office on 30 June 2010, he should no longer be regarded as independent.
Tony Hales, the Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director has failed to address or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
Re-election of directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, each director must offer himself herself for re-election every three years.
After nine years a director, other than an executive director, must offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director who is initially appointed by the Board is subject to election at the next AGM.
The Company has decided that in accordance with best corporate governance practice all directors will offer themselves for re-election this year.
Details of the directors, including the reasons for proposing their re-election, are contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders that will accompany the Notice of AGM.
Policy on other board appointments The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: any request for an exception to this is considered on its merits.
An executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the Board considers this will not adversely affect his her executive responsibilities.
The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties, including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he she holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she should not hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
Board performance evaluation As part of its best practice approach to corporate governance the Board decided to engage an external consultant, Professor Stuart Timperley, to carry out the Board performance evaluation for 2010.
He carried out extensive interviews with the directors and other senior executives and presented his key findings to the Board at its February 2011 meeting.
He found the issue of governance in its broadest interpretation to be of high priority and the Board and Committees to be effective.
As an ongoing process the Board will discuss and address his observations.
Company Secretary and independent advice All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Board Committees other than the Disclosure Committee of which the Deputy Company Secretary is Secretary.
There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense relating to the performance of his her duties.
64 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance Meetings Seven Board meetings and a strategy retreat are scheduled for 2011.
A detailed agenda and a pack of Board papers are sent to each director a week before each meeting so he she has sufficient time to review them.
Additional meetings are convened if required and there is contact between meetings where necessary.
The Chairman has held a number of sessions with the non-executive directors without executive directors present, and the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman on a number of occasions.
Training The Companys policy is to provide appropriate training to directors, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience, including environmental, social and governance training as appropriate.
From time to time the Company arranges presentations for the Board on topical subjects following Board meetings.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of training for each director which is reviewed by the Board annually.
The register was last reviewed by the Board at its meeting in January 2011.
Report on the Executive Committee Until 6 August 2010, this Committee consisted of John Harnett Chairman, David Broadbent and Craig Shannon.
Craig Shannon ceased to be a member of the Committee on 6 August 2010 and Fred Forfar became a member on 9 September 2010.
Its remit is to deal with those matters specifically reserved to it for decision which primarily relate to the day-to-day running of the Group.
Report on the Disclosure Committee Until 6 August 2010, this Committee consisted of David Broadbent, Craig Shannon and Rosamond Marshall Smith under the chairmanship of John Harnett.
Craig Shannon ceased to be a member on 6 August 2010.
Its remit is to ensure that the Companys obligations pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules of the FSA are discharged and that appropriate policies and procedures are in place.
Report on the Nomination Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2010 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 4 4 Charles Gregson 2 2 Tony Hales 4 4 John Harnett 4 4 Edyta Kurek 2 2 John Lorimer 2 2 Ray Miles 2 2 Nicholas Page 4 4 Charles Gregson and Ray Miles retired from this Committee on 12 May 2010.
Edyta Kurek and John Lorimer were appointed to this Committee on 12 May 2010.
Remit Its remit is to: assist the Board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director and to recommend the appointment to the Board: and keep under review the size, structure and composition of the Board and succession.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 65 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Work in 2010 The Committee has kept the size, structure and composition of the Board under review.
It oversaw the recruitment process, including the appointment of search consultants, which led to the appointment of the two new non-executive directors: it then recommended to the Board the appointment of Edyta Kurek which took place in February 2010 and the appointment of John Lorimer which took place in May 2010.
In addition, it recommended the extension of Charles Gregsons term of office.
It also reviewed the Board structure and succession and determined that a Chief Operating Officer should be recruited.
The Chief Operating Officer will be responsible for the performance of the Groups countries of operation and will report to the Chief Executive Officer.
The recruitment process is being handled by search consultants and is well under way.
Report on the Remuneration Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2010 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Ray Miles Chairman until 12 May 2010 2 2 Tony Hales Chairman from 12 May 2010 5 5 John Lorimer 3 3 Nicholas Page 5 5 Ray Miles retired from this Committee on 12 May 2010.
John Lorimer was appointed to this Committee on 12 May 2010.
Remit Its remit is to: consider the framework of executive remuneration and make recommendations to the Board: determine the specific remuneration packages and conditions of service of the Chairman, the executive directors, the Company Secretary and the Senior Management Group: and determine the policy approve awards under the Companys equity incentive schemes.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report, which also contains details of the Companys equity incentive schemes.
Report on the Audit and Risk Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2010 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Nicholas Page Chairman 6 5 Tony Hales 6 6 John Lorimer 4 3 Ray Miles 2 2 Nicholas Page missed one meeting due to airport closure in Europe following bad weather.
John Lorimer was appointed to this Committee on 12 May 2010 and missed one meeting due to a prior business commitment.
Ray Miles retired from this Committee on 12 May 2010.
In addition to the members, at the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by both the internal audit firm and the external auditors as required and by the Finance Director and the Head of Compliance and Risk.
Country Managers or heads of function regularly present to the Committee on an aspect of the business.
The Committee also meets from time to time with the internal audit firm and the external auditors without an executive director or 66 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance member of the Companys senior management being present.
The Head of Compliance and Risk reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures that his her independence from the management and operation of the business is maintained.
The Chairman of the Committee, Nicholas Page, has a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Tony Hales has a degree in Chemistry and John Lorimer has a degree in Commerce.
The Chairman is regarded as having relevant and recent experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Remit Its remit is to: make recommendations to the Board, for the Board to put to shareholders in general meeting in relation to the appointment of the external auditors, and in relation to the internal audit firm, and to approve their terms of appointment: review and monitor the objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company and the formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including operational and compliance controls and risk management: keep under review the Group risk register and to consider the most important risks facing the Group and their mitigation: and keep under review the Groups whistleblowing policy.
Work in 2010 Two of the meetings each year are focused solely on risk.
The remaining meetings cover audit-related matters and the other areas within the remit of the Committee.
There is a co-sourced internal audit operation, with internal audit functions established in all the businesses under the direction of the Head of Compliance and Risk, and Ernst & Young EY performing special projects and such work as will allow them to report to the Committee on internal controls.
Internal audit work is carried out by the local audit teams.
EY review the work of the internal auditors in order to provide assurance on the operation of internal controls for the purpose of the Combined Code and to carry out separate pieces of work on specific risk areas.
In 2010 EY carried out: a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit functions in the countries: a review of arrears management collections processes: an agent safety review: and a review of compliance with consumer credit legislation.
During 2010 the Committee: reviewed an internal audit activity report at each audit-focused meeting and considered a number of reports from the internal audit functions on specific areas of the business: considered a report by  LLP PwC on the results of its audit work February and considered a review by PwC of the financial information in the half-year report July : received a presentation from PwC on the audit strategy for the 2010 audit and agreed this December : agreed the internal audit plan for 2011 this provides broad coverage of the business activities and includes reviews in each of the countries, together with the key corporate functions in the UK December : www.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 67 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued reviewed comprehensively the Group risk register on two occasions and kept under review the principal risks facing the Group and plans and measures to mitigate the impact of these risks: received presentations on different areas of the business from senior managers: the topics were tax risk, non-financial data assurance, political and reputational risk, lead management, collections and arrears management, and IT: and considered the internal controls risks and reported to the Board.
Independence of auditors The Committee ensures that the external auditors are, and are perceived to be, independent and has taken various steps to seek to ensure that this is and remains the case.
The Committee considers a letter of independence from the external auditors once each year.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of employees from the auditors to positions within the various Group finance departments.
This regulates the employment of key members of the audit engagement team as Finance Director or in certain other senior Group finance roles.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditors for non-audit work: the award of non-audit work to the auditors is managed in order to ensure that the auditors are able to conduct an independent audit and are perceived to be independent by the Groups shareholders and stakeholders: the performance of non-audit work by the auditors is minimised and work is awarded only when, by virtue of their knowledge, skills or experience, the auditors are clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers: the Group maintains an active relationship with at least two other professional accounting firms: no information technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the auditors without the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances: the Chairman of the Committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 60,000 or more: the auditors may not perform internal audit work: and the Committee keeps under review the non-audit work carried out by the auditors.
Fees paid to PwC in 2010 are set out in note 4 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit services carried out by PwC in 2010 were as follows: Work carried out Fee 000 Comment Refinancing work 230 Related to review of working capital reports and Euro Medium Term Note issue costs Tax services 137 Corporate responsibility 48 Related to the assurance of non-financial KPIs Other 15 430 This refinancing work is non-recurrent.
Appointment of auditors A resolution to appoint auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee decided that, as PwC had carried out the first three audits and would complete a fourth, it was appropriate for there to be a formal tender for the external audit.
This will be concluded in mid-March 2011 and the name of the successful firm will appear in the Chairmans letter to shareholders that will accompany the Notice of AGM.
There is also a formal tender for the internal audit firm.
68 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance Internal control and risk management Risk management process The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In February 2011 the Board approved a Risk Appetite Statement which is published as part of the Principal risks section of this report.
This sets out Group risks and the risk appetite and mitigation in relation to each risk.
The Board approves a detailed budget each year usually in December for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The Board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with corporate policies and to certify compliance with these policies on an annual basis or, where a matter of non-compliance has been identified, to state the exception and the reason for it.
The Risk Advisory Group, which consists of the Chairman, the executive directors, the Company Secretary and the Head of Compliance and Risk, meets four times a year.
It reports to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Twice a year it considers the risk assessments and risk registers produced by the subsidiaries and updates the Group risk register and principal risks.
It considers areas of specific risk and particular issues.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the Group risk register and the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group.
It reviews the principal risks and the framework to manage and mitigate such risks and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the Head of Compliance and Risk and the internal audit firm and reports to the Board regularly.
The operation of internal financial controls is further monitored, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the Group are prepared by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior to submission to the Group reporting team, the individual country submissions are reviewed and approved by the Finance Director of the relevant country.
Once the submissions have been aggregated and consolidation adjustments made to remove intercompany transactions, the consolidated result is reviewed by the Finance Director.
The results are compared to the budget and prior year figures and any significant variances are clarified.
Checklists are completed by each statutory entity and by the Group reporting team to confirm that all required controls, such as key reconciliations, have been performed and reviewed.
The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by the Group reporting team and reviewed by the Finance Director.
The supporting notes to the Financial Statements which cannot be agreed directly to the consolidation are prepared by aggregating submission templates from each market and combining this with central information where applicable.
The Financial Statements and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved by the Group Head of Finance and the Finance Director: these are signed by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
Review of effectiveness In accordance with the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the FRC in 2008, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, during 2010.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2010 and up to 2 March 2011.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 69 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with shareholders from time to time.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the executive directors and shareholders and for ensuring that the views of shareholders are made known to the entire Board.
Independent reviews of shareholder views are commissioned and the Board receives regular updates on investor relations.
The Board seeks to present the Companys position and prospects clearly.
Annual Report and Financial Statements, circulars and announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange are posted on the Companys website www.
Shareholders, whatever the size of their shareholding, are able to express their views via email or telephone contact with the Investor Relations Manager.
The Company gives at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
Its policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer questions from shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
Details of proxy votes are made available to shareholders and other interested parties by means of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Environmental, social and governance matters During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries made donations of 48,607 for UK charitable purposes.
Community investment across the Group totalled 1,139,716 in cash, employee time and in-kind contributions to charitable and community investment organisations.
A further 2,045,476 was raised through leverage including fundraising and matched funding.
The Groups community data is reported in line with the London Benchmarking Group methodology and is independently assured by the Corporate Citizenship Company.
No political donations were made.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of environmental, social and governance ESG matters to the Group and has identified and assessed the significance of ESG risks to the Companys short and long-term value as part of the risk management process.
It recognises that a proactive programme of reputation management through a range of progressive, responsible business initiatives adds to the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
Responsibility for this area rests with the Chief Executive Officer, John Harnett.
He chairs the Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee which sets guidance, provides direction and oversees policies and progress to ensure that the Company is a leader in its approach to ESG matters.
Key ESG issues for the business that impact upon its stakeholders are: corporate reputation: social or financial exclusion: ensuring work with communities is relevant: and attracting skilled and well motivated labour.
Failure to be seen to trade responsibly and failure to gain the necessary approvals to trade from regulators could adversely affect the Companys reputation and share price.
Adequate information is received by the Board to make an assessment of key ESG issues.
Corporate affairs activity, health and safety and people management issues were all discussed at Board meetings in 2010.
The Board formally reviews a corporate responsibility CR report at least once a year.
Details of training for directors are set out in the training section of this corporate governance statement.
The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees, agents and other people who may be affected by its activities.
The Board has approved a Group health and safety policy and a framework for health and safety.
It has established a Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by the Group Development Director, Fred Forfar.
This Committee reports annually to the Board by means of a written report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for the issue and implementation of its own health and safety policy as it affects the subsidiary companys day-to-day responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is considered regularly at board meetings within the Group.
70 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance There is a range of appropriate corporate standards, policies and governance structures covering all operations.
Compliance with corporate policies is confirmed formally by means of a self-certification process once a year and is reported to the Board.
Community investment and environmental data are externally verified.
The environmental management system is also subject to an annual independent internal audit against the requirements of ISO 14001.
The Group achieved independent external assurance against the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE3000 for selected Key Performance Indicators.
Further details are in the Independent assurance report.
The Remuneration Committee is able to consider performance on ESG issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors and, where relevant, ESG matters are incorporated into the performance management systems and remuneration incentives of local business management.
When setting incentives the Remuneration Committee takes account of all implications, including the need to avoid inadvertently motivating inappropriate behaviour.
In 2010, the executive directors were given specific objectives relating to ESG issues for the purposes of the annual bonus scheme: these related to leadership and succession planning.
Details of the bonus scheme are set out in the bonuses section of the statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Full information on specific ESG matters, and how these are managed, can be found in the CR section of the Companys website www.
Securities On 19 April 2010 the Company established a Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme.
In August 2010 it issued E225 million notes pursuant to that programme.
The term is five years and the coupon is 11.5%.
In February 2011 it issued Romanian lei 36.5 million with a three-year term and 12% coupon under the EMTN programme.
The Euro and Romanian lei notes are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
A subsidiary company IPF Investments Polska Sp.
z o. o. issued 200 million Polish zloty notes maturing on 30 June 2015.
The coupon is a floating rate of six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 750 basis points.
These notes are listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange.
Share capital information On 31 December 2010, there were 257,217,888 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue.
No shares were issued during the year.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
The full rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be viewed on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies House in the UK.
A summary of those rights and obligations can be found below.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The directors are responsible for the management of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association.
For example, the Articles of Association contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys powers to borrow money: provisions relating to the appointment of directors, subject to subsequent shareholder approval: delegation of powers to a director or committees: and, subject to certain exceptions, a director shall not vote on or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has an interest which he she knows is material.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 71 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
There are no restrictions on voting rights except as set out in the Articles of Association in circumstances where the shareholder has not complied with a statutory notice or paid up what is due on the shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer including requirements for prior approval of any transfers or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject to the fact that the Board may refuse to register the transfer of: a partly-paid share: an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: and a certificated share if a duly executed transfer is not provided together with any necessary document of authority.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares to be acquired through the Companys share plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee trust with an independent trustee, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share incentive plans.
On 31 December 2010, the trustee held 3,648,471 shares in the Company.
The trust waives its dividend entitlement and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, apart from: its bank facility agreements which provide for a negotiation period following a change of control of the Company and the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for outstanding amounts to become due and payable: its Euro Medium Term Note programme the EMTN Notes which entitles any holder of an EMTN Note to require the Company to redeem such holders EMTN Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and, following such change of control, the EMTN Notes are downgraded: and its Polish Medium Term Note programme the PMTN Notes which entitles any holder of a PMTN Note to require the issuer to redeem such holders PMTN Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and following such change of control the EMTN Notes are then downgraded or if no EMTN Notes are then outstanding, in certain other circumstances.
The Company does not have any agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
However, provisions in the Companys share incentive plans may cause awards granted to directors and employees to vest on a takeover.
Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company presents its own Annual Report and its Consolidated Annual Report as a single Annual Report.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 72 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Governance make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
It is given by each of the directors: namely, Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman: John Harnett, Chief Executive Officer: David Broadbent, Finance Director: Charles Gregson, non-executive director: Tony Hales, non-executive director: Edyta Kurek, non-executive director: John Lorimer, non-executive director: and Nicholas Page, non-executive director.
To the best of each directors knowledge: a the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditors In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
co. uk Directors Report: Governance 73
