International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Policy As a Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to take account of the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance as revised by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2006 the Combined Code.
It is also the Companys policy to comply with best practice on good corporate governance that is applicable to investment companies.
As such, the Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Combined Code and the UKLA Listing Rules, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The AIC Code provides a comply or explain code of corporate governance designed especially for the needs of investment companies.
The Company is a member of the AIC.
The AIC published a new code of corporate governance in October 2010 and the Company has reviewed its compliance with these standards.
The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that so far as investment companies are concerned it considers that companies who comply with the AIC Code will be treated as meeting their obligations under the Combined Code and Listing Rules The Board has determined that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which the Financial Reporting Council has confirmed should meet the Companys obligations in relation to the Combined Code and relevant UKLA Listing Rules will provide more appropriate information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with all the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Combined Code, except as noted out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Combined Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally advised investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Board Structure The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, whose biographies, on page 24, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
As the Chairman of the Board is an independent non-executive, the Board considers it unnecessary to appoint a senior independent Director.
32 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Name Position Independent Date Appointed Keith Dorrian Non-Executive Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Director Yes 2 August 2006 Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 Carol Goodwin Non-Executive Director Yes 19 February 2007 John Whittle Non-Executive Director Yes 6 August 2009 The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr. K Dorrian.
One third of the Directors retire by rotation at every AGM with the exception of Mr. G Frost, who is not considered independent being an employee of Amber Infrastructure Limited, which is an associated company of the Companys Investment Advisor, Amber Fund Management Limited.
Mr. G Frost will therefore be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
All other Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Companys investment advisor.
Any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
The independent directors take the lead in any discussions relating to the appointment or re-appointment of directors.
The Board meets at least four times a year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Advisor and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Advisor, the Company Secretary and other advisors in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Management Engagement Committee which is a sub-committee of the Board regularly reviews the performance of the Investment Advisor and the Companys other advisors to ensure that performance is satisfactory and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relative appointments.
An evaluation of the performance of individual Directors and the Chairman was carried out during the year which concluded that the Board is performing satisfactorily in the six areas reviewed: Board composition and meeting process, Board information, training, Board dynamics, Board accountability and effectiveness and an evaluation of the Chairman.
New Directors receive an induction from the Investment Advisor on joining the Board, and all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing and corporate governance procedures are reserved for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
Board Tenure No member of the Board has served for longer than 5 years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered by the Board with respect to long tenure.
When and if any director shall have been in office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office for more than 8 years the Company will consider further on this matter as to whether there is any risk that such director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
Keith Dorrian will retire as a result of the retirement by rotation provisions and Giles Frost will retire as a result of the UKLA Listing Rules and both will stand for re-election.
33 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Meeting Attendance Records The table below lists Directors attendance at meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
Directors Quarterly Ad-hoc Audit Committee Management Board Board max 4 Engagement max 4 max 6 Committee max 1 K Dorrian 4 6 4 1 R Dorey 4 6 4 1 1 2 G Frost 4 2 max 2 n a n a C Goodwin 4 6 4 1 J Whittle 4 6 4 1 1 Mr. G Frost is not a member of the Audit Committee or Management Engagement Committee.
2 Mr. G Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as a director where recommendations from the Investment Advisor are under consideration.
Committees of the Board The AIC Code requires the Company to appoint a nomination or remuneration committee.
The Board has not deemed this necessary as, being comprised wholly of non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
The Boards Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment of auditors and the review of the Companys accounting and financial affairs.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee was established in 2010 to provide a formal mechanism for the review of the performance of the Companys advisors including its Investment Advisor.
It carries this review out through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions of the advisors appointment with the aim of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure Approval of investment decisions Strategic matters and financial reporting Board composition and accountability to shareholders Risk assessment and management, including reporting, compliance, monitoring, governance and control Other matters having material effects on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
The Company has no Executive Directors or employees.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as Investment Advisor to the Company to review and monitor investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
In addition, Amber Fund Management Limited is 34 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued responsible for the discretionary investment management of the Groups investment portfolio under the terms of the Operating Agreement.
Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, money laundering regulation and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it complies with applicable rules and regulations of Guernsey Law, Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Insurance cover throughout the period.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control and Financial Reporting The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
The Directors review all controls including operations, compliance and risk management.
The key procedures which have been established to provide internal control are: Investment advisory services are provided by Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment policy and monitors the action of the Investment Advisor and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited Heritage : however it retains accountability for all functions it delegates.
The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going basis.
It ensures that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of recent market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors and appointments are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such agents and advisors.
AFML and Heritage maintain their own systems of internal control, on which they report to the Board.
The Company, in common with other investment companies, does not have an internal audit function.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but because of the internal control systems in place at AFML and Heritage, has decided to place reliance on their systems and internal control procedures.
The systems are designed to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the systems of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
35 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Relations with Shareholders The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Investment Advisor meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
Issues of concern can be addressed by any shareholder by writing to the Company at its registered address see page 1.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and the Investment Advisor of the Company.
