gOveRnAnce cORpORAte gOveRnAnce RepORt comBInED coDE complIancE The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles laid down in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 the Code and to the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the FRC in June 2010 the New Code.
This statement describes how the principles of the Code are applied and reports on the companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
The directors consider that the company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Code throughout the 53 weeks ended 3 October 2010 and with certain aspects of the New Code where relevant to the date of this report.
thE BoarD The board of directors the board currently has seven members, comprising the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, three further independent Non-Executive Directors and the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards deliberations.
The board is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the business.
With the exception of the PepsiCo nominated Non-Executive Director, Joanne Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.
3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
The Non-Executive Directors were all appointed for an initial three-year term and, thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as directors if they are to remain on the board for more than nine years.
thE chaIrman anD chIEF ExEcutIvE The different roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive, respectively, and adopted by the board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the board and ensuring that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The board has delegated appropriate responsibilities to the Executive Committee which comprises in addition to the Executive Directors, the Marketing Director, Customer Management Director, Supply Chain Director, Strategy Director, Human Resources Director, and the Managing Director of Britvic Ireland who are responsible for the day-to-day running of the business, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific board decisions relating to the operation of the group.
sEnIor InDEpEnDEnt non-ExEcutIvE DIrEctor The senior independent Non-Executive Director, Bob Ivell, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director: or for which such contact is inappropriate.
thE DIrEctors The biographical details of the board members are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The directors have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in UK and or non-UK listed companies and have substantial experience in business.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the groups pension schemes or in any of the groups bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
At all times there has been a majority of Non-Executive independent directors on the board, in compliance with Code provision A.
All directors must stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting after they are appointed and the Articles of Association provide that all directors will stand for re-election at least every three years.
7.1 of the New Code, all of the directors will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
rolE oF thE BoarD The board is collectively responsible for the proper management of the company.
The board normally meets ten times each financial year and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making, including responsibility for the overall management and performance of the group and the approval of its long term objectives and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of each board or committee meeting.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and comprehensive briefing papers on matters where the board will be required to reach a decision.
Senior executives below board level attend board meetings where appropriate to present business updates.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and review, at least annually, by the board of medium-term plans and the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of its meetings.
All major investment decisions are subject to post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the companys long-term strategy.
The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at board meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set out on page 37.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
Directors and officers insurance cover is provided by the company in line with normal market practice, for the benefit of directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 35 Corporate Governance Report continued BoarD pErFormancE EvaluatIon The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors was undertaken during the year.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The appraisal questionnaire used in connection with the process was wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Code, covering both board and committee performance.
The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and development areas and confirmed that the board and its committees were operating effectively.
Individual performance was also appraised, based on one-to-one interviews with the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior Independent Director following consultation with each of the other directors.
InDEpEnDEnt proFEssIonal aDvIcE The board has approved a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the companys expense if necessary.
No such advice was sought by any director during the year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that board procedures are followed.
traInIng anD DEvElopmEnt The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed directors, including presentations from senior management on different aspects of the business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Business familiarisation involves directors visiting sites in the UK, Ireland and France.
The Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit group manufacturing sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Every director has access to appropriate training as required subsequent to his appointment and is encouraged to develop his understanding of the company.
conFlIcts oF IntErEst The companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 AGM, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the board to authorise a conflict of interest is only effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted directors, and in making such a decision, as always, the directors must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The company has established a procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
During the year under review this procedure was adhered to and operated effectively.
BoarD commIttEEs There are a number of standing committees of the board to which various matters are delegated.
Each has formal Terms of Reference that have been approved by the board which are available on the groups website www.
Details are set out below: thE nomInatIon commIttEE The Nomination Committee comprises Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell, Michael Shallow and Gerald Corbett, who acts as its Chairman.
The committee meets as necessary and is responsible for considering and recommending to the board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board under which the Nomination Committee interviews suitable candidates who are proposed either by existing board members or by an external search firm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board is maintained.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the senior independent Non-Executive Director will chair the committee instead of the Chairman.
When the committee has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the committee will make a proposal to the whole board, which has retained responsibility for all such appointments.
thE rEmunEratIon commIttEE The Remuneration Committee comprises Gerald Corbett, Ben Gordon, Michael Shallow and Bob Ivell, who acts as its Chairman.
It is responsible for: i making recommendations to the board on the groups policy on the remuneration of the companys Chief Executive, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee: ii the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of the remuneration of the Chairman and of specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights, any compensation payments and benefits: and iii the determination of awards under the companys employee share plans to the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee.
It meets at least three times a year and during the year met three times.
Full details of its activities and of directors remuneration are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 40 to 47.
Those pages detail compliance with the legal requirements with regard to remuneration matters.
The Chairman of the committee reports the outcome of its meetings to the board.
36 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 thE auDIt commIttEE The Audit Committee comprises Ben Gordon, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow, who acts as its Chairman.
The board is satisfied that Michael Shallow, who is a Chartered Accountant and was formerly Finance Director of Greene King plc, has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the financial reporting process, the integrity of the groups interim and annual financial statements prior to their submission to the board and the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated accounts.
It is also responsible for reviewing the groups internal financial control and risk management systems, advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, approving auditor remuneration, reviewing the groups whistle blowing procedures, reviewing accounting policies, compliance and monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function.
The committee met three times during the year, including immediately prior to the publication of the companys Interim and Preliminary results statements.
On each occasion the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk and the companys external auditors attended by invitation.
Other senior executives of the company are invited to attend by the committee as appropriate.
Significant areas of review during the year included the continued embedding of Britvics real-time risk management solution across the group.
The committee also reviewed the groups refreshed business continuity plans, which are managed on-line and were the subject of a number of workshops.
It also reviewed the risk assessment and audit review work undertaken by the groups Internal Audit team on the recently acquired Britvic France.
The committee also received comprehensive reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the outputs and progress of the internal audit plan.
The Audit Committee regularly monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim review each year.
At each Audit Committee meeting the external auditors meet with the committee without management being present.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship is maintained between the group and its Auditors.
The group has a policy of controlling the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to maintain their independence and ensure that their objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
This control is exercised by ensuring non-audit projects, where fees are expected to exceed 50,000, are subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Finance Director.
If non-audit project fees are expected to exceed 150,000 the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
The Committee has scrutinised the internal procedures of the companys Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the Auditors are not affected by the nonaudit work undertaken.
attEnDancE at mEEtIngs The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings during the 53 weeks ended 3 October 2010 was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Gerald Corbett 10 1 3 Paul Moody 10 Joanne Averiss 10 John Gibney 10 Bob Ivell 10 1 3 3 Michael Shallow 10 1 3 3 Ben Gordon 9 1 3 3 total number of meetings 10 1 3 3 sharEholDEr rElatIons The company is committed to maintaining good communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, have dialogue with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which is fed back to the board.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual and interim results and the company seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Business Review set out on pages 14 to 29 details the financial performance of the company as well as setting out the risks it faces and plans for the future.
The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from individual shareholders.
All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the companys AGM on 27 January 2011.
At the AGM, the Chairman will give a statement on current trading conditions and the Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees will be available to answer questions.
The Chairman will advise shareholders on proxy voting details.
In addition, the groups website containing published information and press releases can be found at www.
com Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 37 Corporate Governance Report continued IntErnal control The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging that responsibility, the board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures have been in place since the company listed and are regularly reviewed by the board.
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress towards strategic objectives: Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking appropriate management action: Capital investment and asset management performance, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with the Turnbull guidance published by the FRC in October 2006 and is supported by reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk that the significant risks faced by the group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The board has delegated the management of risk to the Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director, which reviews the group risk register on a quarterly basis, and reports to the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the group is subject to the approval of the board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
rIsk managEmEnt procEss There is in place an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group, which has operated throughout the year.
This process involves a quarterly assessment of functional risk registers, which is reviewed and signed off by the Group Risk Committee.
The groups risk management framework is designed to support this process and is the responsibility of the Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance Director.
The risk framework governs the management and control of both financial and non-financial risks.
The adoption of this policy throughout the group enables a consistent approach to the management of risk at both regional and business unit level.
The Internal Audit function holds regular workshops across the group to ensure a consistent deployment of the framework and test compliance with the policy.
In addition, during the year, the Audit Committee received: Reports from the Head of Internal Audit and Risk on the work carried out under the annual internal audit plan: Risk management reports, including the status of actions to mitigate major risks and the quantification of selected risks: and Reports from the external auditors.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the board, did not indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of approval of this report.
statEmEnt oF DIrEctors rEsponsIBIlItIEs In rElatIon to thE FInancIal statEmEnts The directors have prepared the financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and for the company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, under English company law it is the directors responsibility to prepare financial statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
38 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010 In the case of IFRS financial statements, IAS1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each financial period the groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the groups financial position and financial performance: and State that the group has complied with IFRS.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
DIsclosurE anD transp arEncy rulEs The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: a The financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Commission, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation as a whole: and b The Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Neither the company nor the directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report and Financial Statements except to the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
