Corporate governance Introduction While the board provides leadership based on an ethical foundation, and oversees the overall Investec is process and structure of corporate governance, each business area and every employee of the group is responsible for acting in accordance with sound corporate governance practices.
committed to promoting In formulating our governance framework, we apply recognised corporate sustainable governance practices pragmatically so as to: Build and sustain an ethical corporate culture in the company stakeholder Identify and mitigate significant risks, including reputational risk confidence in 3 Exercise effective review and monitoring of our activities our conduct as Promote informed and sound decision making a business and Enable effectiveness, efficiency, responsibility and accountability as a responsible Enhance the capital markets and other stakeholders perception of us corporate citizen Facilitate legal and regulatory compliance Secure trust and confidence of all stakeholders Protect our brand and reputation Ensure sustainable business practices, including social and environmental activities Disclose the necessary group information to enable all stakeholders to make a meaningful analysis of our financial position and actions Respond appropriately to changes in market conditions and the business environment Remain at the forefront of international corporate governance practices.
Our values and philosophies are the framework against which we measure behaviour and practices so as to assess the characteristics of good governance.
Our values require that directors and employees behave with integrity, displaying consistent and uncompromising moral strength and conduct in order to promote and maintain trust.
Sound corporate governance is implicit in our values, culture, processes, functions and organisational structure.
Structures are designed to ensure that our values remain embedded in all businesses and processes.
We continually refine these structures and a written Statement of Values serves as our Code of Ethics.
We operate under a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure, and consider the corporate governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before adopting the stricter rule for the group.
All international business units operate in accordance with the above determined corporate governance recommendations, in addition to those of their jurisdiction, but with clear adherence at all times to group values and culture.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 202 Governance framework Our governance framework can be depicted as follows: Investec plc and Investec Limited Board of directors DLC Nomination and DLC Remuneration Audit Board Risk and Directors Affairs Committee Committees Capital Committee Committee 3 DLC Executive Audit Capital Risk Review Sub-Committees Committee Forum Group Credit Committee Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Group Investment Committee Internal Group Deal Forum Audit Group Risk Group Market Risk Forum Management Asset and Liability Committees Compliance Operational Risk Committees Forums Group Legal Risk Forums Stakeholders employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, suppliers, communities Board statement The board, management and employees of Investec are in full support of and committed to complying with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, regulatory requirements in the countries in which we operate, the London Combined Code 2008 and, as from 1 March 2010, the majority of the King Code of Governance Principles for South Africa 2009 King III, whereby all stakeholders are assured that we are being managed ethically and in compliance with the latest legislation, regulations and best practices.
London Combined Code 2008 The board is of the opinion that, based on the practices disclosed throughout this report, which were in operation during the year under review, Investec has complied with the Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice contained in Section 1 of the London Combined Code 2008, excluding the following: Independence of the Chairman: The Chairman, Hugh Herman, is not considered to be independent as, at the time of his appointment and up to 2005, his duties included promoting the group and introducing clients, but excluded day-to-day executive decisions.
His role was full time and he sat on certain management forums.
He was also included in various management incentive schemes.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 203 } Corporate governance continued Board evaluation: The last evaluation of the board, as required by the London Combined Code A.
The next evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors will be conducted during 2010 and annually thereafter.
King III King III was released on 1 September 2009 and came into effect on 1 March 2010, with companies having to apply the principles in respect of financial years commencing on or after 1 March 2010.
King III distinguishes between statutory provisions, voluntary principles and recommended practices.
The King III Report provides best practice recommendations, whereas the King III Code provides the principles that all entities should apply.
Recognition is given to the fact that certain new principles in King III are matters of law, as they are contained in the Companies Act 71 of 2008 the new Companies Act.
As the new Companies Act has not been implemented to date - certain of these principles required by King III have not been adopted or applied.
The board elected to apply the majority of the principles in King III as from 1 March 2010, with the result that we now need to explain how the principles have been or have not been applied.
A schedule referencing the relevant principles to sections in this report is attached hereto as 3 an annexure on pages 221 to 223.
A detailed exercise was undertaken to benchmark Investecs practices against the principles required under King III.
The exercise indicated that in substance Investec applies most of the principles, but this will remain work in progress for the remainder of 2010.
The following principles of King III are currently not being applied by Investec: The board should consider business rescue proceedings or other turnaround mechanisms as soon as the company is financially distressed as defined in the Act This principle is a matter of law, as contained in the new Companies Act, which has not been implemented to date The board should elect a chairman of the board who is an independent non-executive director Refer to the explanation above The evaluation of the board, its committees and the individual directors should be performed every year The last evaluation of the board was conducted during 2008.
The next evaluation of the board, its committees and the individual directors will be conducted during 2010 and annually thereafter Companies should disclose the remuneration of the three most highly paid employees.
Details of the directors remuneration and the groups remuneration process are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 231 and 251 The new Companies Act, which has not been implemented to date, requires that the remuneration of the companies prescribed officers be disclosed.
The board will resolve on the identity of the prescribed officers as and when required under the new Companies Act Sustainability reporting and disclosure should be independently assured We do not believe that this is necessary given the nature of our business and level of sustainability reporting required The Audit Committees have overseen the sustainability report and the content of the report has been verified by the Internal Audit division.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are required to confirm that they are satisfied that the group, as well as Investec plc and Investec Limited individually, have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The assumptions underlying the going concern statement are discussed at the time of the approval of the annual financial statements by the board and these include: Budgeting and forecasts Profitability Capital Liquidity.
In addition, the directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks we face in preparing the financial and other information contained in this annual report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the Audit, Risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to on pages 210 to 216.
The significant risks we face include risks flowing from the instability in the global financial market and recent economic environment that could affect Investecs businesses, earnings and financial condition.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 204 Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, taking into consideration: The groups strategy and prevailing market conditions and business environment Corporate governance practices Accounting policies adopted Desire to provide relevant and clear disclosures Nature and complexity of our business Risks we assume, and their management and mitigation Key business and control processes in operation Operation of board committee support structures Operational soundness 3 Credit rating and access to capital Needs of all our stakeholders.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Further information on our liquidity and capital position is provided on pages 162 to 171 and pages 179 to 192.
Furthermore, the board is of the opinion that the groups risk management processes and the systems of internal control are effective.
Board of directors Role and responsibilities The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risks to be assessed and managed.
Specifically, it is responsible for the adoption of strategic plans, monitoring of operational performance and management, ensuring an effective risk management strategy, compliance with applicable legislation, upholding corporate governance standards and succession.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the groups values and standards, promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
The board has defined the limits of delegated authority.
It is responsible for assessing and managing risk policies and philosophies, ensuring appropriate internal controls, overseeing major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, approving the establishment of businesses and approving the introduction of new products and services.
In fulfilling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
The board monitors and evaluates managements progress on an ongoing basis.
Furthermore, directly or through its sub-committees, the board: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of our performance through a comprehensive system of financial and non-financial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates Approves annual budgets, capital plans, projections and business plans Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice Ensures there are processes in place enabling complete, timely, relevant, accurate and accessible risk disclosure to stakeholders and monitors our communication with all stakeholders and disclosures made to ensure transparent and effective communication with stakeholders Identifies and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities Assisted by the Audit Committee, ensures the appropriate information technology IT governance processes are in place, the implementation of which management are responsible for, and ensuring that the process is aligned to the performance and sustainability objectives of the board Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 205 Corporate governance continued Monitor and evaluate significant IT investments and expenditure Ensure information assets are managed effectively Ensures the appropriate risk governance processes, including IT, are in place including continual risk monitoring by management, determines the levels of risk tolerance and that risk assessments are performed on a continual basis Ensures the integrity of the companys integrated report, which includes sustainability reporting Ensures the induction of, and ongoing training and development of, directors Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainable growth and prosperity.
Composition, structure and process 3 Membership In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and the Investec group is managed as a unified economic enterprise.
At the end of the year under review, the board, excluding the Chairman, comprised four executive directors and 11 non-executive directors.
As set out below, the board concluded that the majority i. e. eight of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent in terms of the London Combined Code and King III.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 260 to 262.
The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment, their independence status and whether they will retire and seek re-election at the 2010 annual general meeting, are set out in the table below.
Retiring and Date of appointment seeking reInvestec plc Investec Limited Independent Last elected election in 2010 Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 26 June 2002 6 October 1986 No 2009 No B Kantor Managing Director 26 June 2002 8 June 1987 No 2008 No GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 3 July 2002 3 July 2002 No 2007 Yes A Tapnack 1 July 2002 1 July 2002 No 2007 Yes Non-executive directors HS Herman Chairman 26 June 2002 1 January 1994 No 2009 Yes SE Abrahams 26 June 2002 21 October 1996 Yes 2009 Yes GFO Alford 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 Yes 2007 Yes CA Carolus 18 March 2005 18 March 2005 Yes 2008 No PKO Crosthwaite 18 June 2010 18 June 2010 Yes Yes B Fried 1 April 2010 1 April 2010 No Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 July 2003 21 July 2003 Yes 2008 No GMT Howe 21 July 2003 21 July 2003 Yes 2008 No IR Kantor 26 June 2002 30 July 1980 No 2009 Yes Sir Chips Keswick Senior 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 Yes 2008 No Independent Director MP Malungani 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 No 2008 No Sir David Prosser 23 March 2006 23 March 2006 Yes 2009 No PRS Thomas 26 June 2002 29 June 1981 Yes 2009 Yes F Titi 30 January 2004 30 January 2004 No 2007 Yes Independence In accordance with the London Combined Code, half the board excluding the Chairman comprise non-executive directors considered by the board to be independent within the meaning of and with regard to the criteria set out in the London Combined Code and King lII.
A summary of the factors the board uses to determine the independence of directors is detailed below.
Chairman The Chairman of the board is not considered to be independent as described in the board statement on pages 203 and 204.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 206 Relationships and associations Peter Malungani is the Chairman of Peu Group Proprietary Limited and Fani Titi was previously the chairman of Tiso Group Limited.
Both companies have a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Peter and Fani could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King III.
Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investecs Managing Director.
Ian was also previously CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King III.
Bradley Fried was previously CEO of Investec Bank plc and an employee of Investec and accordingly, the board concluded that Bradley could not be considered independent under the London Combined Code and King III.
Despite the board concluding that Peter, Fani, Ian and Bradley cannot be considered independent, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and believe they do and will use their independent 3 judgement when making decisions that affect the organisation and stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams and Peter Thomas regularly attend, by invitation, certain risk management committees of Investec Limited.
The board considers their attendance at these committees to be desirable in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This further allows Sam to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as Chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees.
The board concluded that Sam and Peter retain independence of character and judgement.
Tenure The board does not believe that any current non-executive director has served on the board for a period which could materially interfere with their ability to act in our best interests.
Accordingly, the board has concluded that Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for more than nine years, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
The board does not believe that any director who has served for more than nine years is not independent by virtue of the period of service.
In the spirit of complying with the highest standards of corporate governance, each director serving for more than nine years stands for annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the London Combined Code and King lll, the board is of the view that the non-executive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and non-executive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or have unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors as a whole are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board including: International business and operational experience Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate Financial, accounting, legal and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience profile of the board and its committees are reviewed regularly by the DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant composition from a governance, succession and effectiveness perspective.
Board and directors performance evaluation Board and directors performance is evaluated regularly based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covers areas of the boards processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
As from the financial year commencing 1 April 2010 the board, its committees and individual directors performance evaluations will be conducted on an annual basis.
The performance evaluation process takes place both informally, through personal observations and discussions, and regularly, in the form of evaluation questionnaires.
The results, including additional comments in such questionnaires, are incorporated into a matrix which is considered and discussed by the board.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 207 Corporate governance continued The Chairman holds regular one-on-one meetings with each director to discuss the results of the formal and informal evaluations and, in particular, to seek comments on strengths and developmental areas of the members, the Chairman and the board as a whole.
Individual training and development needs are discussed with each board member and any requests for training are communicated to the Company Secretary for implementation.
The Chairman reports the results of these evaluations to the boards and matters identified during the course of the review are scheduled for appropriate action and later reviewed to ensure implementation.
Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, the duties, responsibilities and expected time commitment of non-executive directors, details of our policy on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which the non-executive director is a member.
We have a policy that insures directors against liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
3 Ongoing training and development On appointment, directors are provided with an induction pack and participate in an induction programme tailored to their needs, including meeting with business unit and central services heads to ensure they become familiar with business operations, senior management, our business environment and internal controls, policies, processes and systems for managing risk.
Directors ongoing training and development is a standing board agenda item, including updates on the various training and development initiatives provided.
Board members receive regular formal presentations on regulatory and governance matters as well as on the business and support functions.
Regular interactive workshops are arranged between directors and the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
The Company Secretaries liaise with the directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors attend, funded by Investec.
Following the boards and directors performance evaluation process, any training needs are communicated to the Company Secretaries who ensure that these needs are addressed.
Independent advice Through the Senior Independent Director or the Company Secretaries, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2010 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 231 to 251.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are set out in writing, are clearly defined and have board approval.
The Chairman leads the board and is responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that directors can perform their duties effectively.
Details of the Chairmans external directorships are set out on page 262.
The board does not consider that the Chairmans external commitments interfere with his performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman makes sufficient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a Deputy Chairman.
Senior Independent Director Sir Chips Keswick was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2004.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 208 Company Secretaries David Miller is the Company Secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the Company Secretary of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the flow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries whose appointment and removal are a board matter.
Les Penfold is global head of Company Secretarial and coordinates and drives the secretarial functions and board governance.
Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited met six times during the year.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company 3 Secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors.
Details of directors attendance at board meetings are shown in the table below.
Number of meetings Number of meetings Investec plc and Investec Limited board held during the year attended during the year Independent Executive directors S Koseff Chief Executive Officer 7 7 B Kantor Managing Director 7 7 GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 7 6 A Tapnack 7 7 Non-executive directors H Herman Chairman 7 7 No SE Abrahams 7 7 Yes GFO Alford 7 7 Yes CA Carolus 7 7 Yes H Fukuda OBE 7 7 Yes GMT Howe 7 5 Yes IR Kantor 7 6 No Sir Chips Keswick Senior Independent Director 7 6 Yes MP Malungani 7 7 No Sir David Prosser 7 7 Yes PRS Thomas 7 6 Yes F Titi 7 7 No B Fried was appointed to the board on 1 April 2010.
PKO Crosthwaite was appointed to the board on 18 June 2010.
The number of meetings held during the year includes a special board meeting held on 9 March 2010.
Re-election of board members All directors are subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
Thereafter, in accordance with the Articles of Association of Investec plc and Investec Limited, at least one third of the directors will retire at each annual general meeting.
In compliance with the London Combined Code A.
7.2. non-executive directors who have served on the board for more than nine years from the date of their first election are re-elected annually.
Retiring directors are subject to an assessment of their performance by the Chairman and the Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee before nomination for re-election and re-appointment.
Biographical details of the directors standing for reelection at the 2010 annual general meeting are on pages 260 to 262.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 209 Corporate governance continued Audit Committees In terms of our DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc Audit Board committees Committee and the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries.
The board is supported by key A DLC Audit Committee, which is a combined Audit Committee of Investec plc and Investec committees, as follows: Limited, has responsibility to the board for matters common to both Investec plc and Investec DLC Audit Committee Limited.
The Audit Committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, as required under both UK and SA legislation and apply the Corporate Governance Principles for audit Investec plc Audit Committee committees as required by both the London Combined Code and King III.
Audit Sub-Committees The board has approved terms of reference for each of the Audit Committees.
These terms Audit and Compliance of reference are available on our website.
3 Implementation Forums Role and responsibilities Investec Limited Audit The responsibilities of the Audit Committees include: Committee Reviewing and making recommendations for the boards approval of our combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published or released Audit Sub-Committees financial reporting documents or statements Audit and Compliance Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined groups and individual companies Implementation Forums accounting policies and their application Board Risk and Capital Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts Committee Considering the external audit scope: fees both, attest and non-attest: and audit findings DLC Capital Committee Reviewing internal audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit Executive Risk Review Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the Forum relevant listing requirements Various specialist risk Implementing measures to maintain effective systems of internal financial control and for committees and forums reporting non-financial operating data as described in the risk Review any matters of significance affecting the financial safety of the DLC group.
management section on In addition, the Audit Committees are now responsible for: pages 109 and 110 Overseeing integrated reporting for the financial year ended 31 March 2010 DLC Nominations and Reviewing the expertise, resources and experience of the Finance function.
Directors Affairs Committee The audit committees are satisfied that the: DLC Remuneration Committee Finance functions of both Investec Limited and subsidiaries and Investec plc and subsidiaries are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced These committees have specific Group Finance Director has appropriate expertise and experience terms of reference, appropriately Groups internal financial controls are effective and no material weaknesses in financial skilled members and access to control have been identified specialist advice when necessary External auditors of both Investec Limited and Investec plc are independent.
The Audit Committees are required to report to the board and shareholders on how they have discharged their duties.
Refer to the annexure on pages 224 to 227 for a report on the following: The Audit Committees formal terms of reference that have been approved by the board, and whether the Committees have satisfied their responsibilities for the year in compliance with their terms of reference A summary of the role of the Audit Committee How the Audit Committees have fulfilled their duties Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 210 The names and qualifications of all members of the Audit Committees during the period under review, and the period for which they served on the Audit Committees The number of Audit Committee meetings held during the period under review and members attendance at these meetings Whether or not the Audit Committees considered and recommended the internal audit charter for approval by the board A description of the working relationship with the head of Internal Audit Chief Audit Executive Information about any other responsibilities assigned to the Audit Committee by the board Whether the Audit Committees complied with its legal, regulatory or other responsibilities Whether or not the Audit Committees recommended the integrated report to the board for approval.
Membership and attendance All Audit Committee members are required to meet predetermined skills, competency and experience requirements.
We believe the Audit 3 Committees have the necessary expertise to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Details of membership, relevant qualifications and experience, as well as attendance at Audit Committee meetings, are shown in the tables below.
DLC Number of meetings Number of meetings Qualifications Audit Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes FCA CA SA Sam is a former international partner and South African managing partner of Arthur Andersen GFO Alford 4 4 Yes BSc Econ FCIS FIPD MSI George is former head of private banking and personnel at Kleinwort Benson Group and was a senior adviser to the UK Financial Services Authority GMT Howe 4 4 Yes MA Hons Geoffrey is a former managing partner at Clifford Chance LLP and was director and group general counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd and is the Chairman of Nationwide Building Society Sir Chips Keswick 4 4 Yes Sir Chips is a former chairman of Hambros Bank Limited, Hambros PLC and a former director of Anglo American.
He was on the court of the Bank of England Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 211 Corporate governance continued DLC Number of meetings Number of meetings Qualifications Audit Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent and experience Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes BSc Hons FIA Sir David was previously chief executive of Legal & General Group PLC and was previously chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes CA SA Peter was the former managing director of The 3 Unisec Group Limited Investec plc Number of meetings Number of meetings Qualifications Audit Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes Refer as above GMT Howe 4 3 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick 4 4 Yes Refer as above Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes Refer as above Investec Limited Number of meetings Number of meetings Qualifications Audit Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent and experience SE Abrahams Chairman 4 4 Yes Refer as above GFO Alford 4 4 Yes Refer as above GMT Howe 4 3 Yes Refer as above Sir Chips Keswick 4 4 Yes Refer as above Sir David Prosser 4 4 Yes Refer as above PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes Refer as above CB Tshili 4 4 No CA SA Busi is Group Finance Director of Peu Group Pty Ltd Richard Dunne, previously representing the interest of Investec Bank Limited on this committee, resigned from the board of directors of Investec Bank Limited during the period under review.
Busi Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
Audit Sub-Committees Audit Sub-Committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited, and other regulated subsidiaries, have been established.
These allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
Members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited Audit Committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a general rule, at least one non-executive member does so.
Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each Audit and Compliance Implementation Forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
NonInvestec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 212 executive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant Audit Committee or Audit Sub-Committee consider important and facilitate the timely understanding and escalation of, and response to risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums support and provide important insight to the Audit Committees.
Essentially, the forums act as a filter, enabling the Audit Committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
DLC Remuneration Committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 241 and 242.
Membership and attendance Details of membership and attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings are shown below.
3 Number of meetings Number of meetings DLC Remuneration Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent GFO Alford Chairman 9 9 Yes GMT Howe 9 9 Yes Sir Chips Keswick 9 6 Yes Sir David Prosser 9 4 Yes Sir David Prosser was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 9 September 2009 and has attended all four meetings held since his appointment.
Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
DLC Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee The Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee has combined the duties of a Nomination Committee and that of a Directors Affairs Committee as required under Section 64B of the South African Banks Act.
Role and responsibilities The Nominations and Directors Affairs Committee is responsible for, among other things: Identifying and nominating the approval of board candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise Determining and evaluating the adequacy, efficiency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structure and practices of the group Establishing and maintaining a board directorship continuity programme Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the boards and board committees compared with their current positions and making recommendations to the boards regarding any changes The nomination of successors to the key positions in Investec Limited or Investec Bank Limited, its major subsidiary, in order to ensure that a management succession plan is in place.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Membership and attendance Details of attendance and membership are shown below.
DLC Nominations and Directors Number of meetings Number of meetings Affairs Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent HS Herman Chairman 4 4 No SE Abrahams 4 4 Yes Sir Chips Keswick 4 4 Yes F Titi 4 4 No PRS Thomas 4 4 Yes KXT Socikwa is a board member of Investec Bank Limited and permanent invitee to the meeting.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 213 Corporate governance continued Board Risk and Capital Committee The Board Risk and Capital Committee is the appointed board committee to meet the requirements of Section 64A of the South African Banks Act, which requires the board of directors of a bank and controlling company to appoint a risk and capital management committee.
The purpose of the Board Risk and Capital Committee is to determine, under delegated authority from and as a sub-committee of the board, the categories of risk, specific risks and the extent of such risks which the group on a consolidated basis, and its banks on a solo basis, should undertake mitigation of risks and capital management.
Role and responsibilities The committee will ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec The risk management structure is adequate, with sufficient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board 3 Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are ratified: liquidity and operational risk are also monitored There is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk There is sufficient capital in relation to existing and potential risks to the organisation.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee defines the processes by which internal financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the board and the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
These include the DLC Capital Committee, Executive Risk Review Forum, Asset and Liability Committees, group Credit Committees, group Market Risk Forum, group Deal Forum, Operational Risk Committees Forums and group Legal Risk Forum.
Membership and attendance Number of meetings Number of meetings Board Risk and Capital Committee held during the year attended during the year Independent S Koseff Chairman 5 5 No SE Abrahams 5 4 Yes GFO Alford 5 4 Yes GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director 5 4 No GMT Howe 5 4 Yes B Kantor Managing Director 5 5 No Sir Chips Keswick 5 2 Yes MP Malungani 5 2 No K Socikwa 5 3 Yes A Tapnack 5 3 No PRS Thomas 5 5 Yes F Titi 5 5 No Karl Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interests on this committee.
Executive Risk Review Forum The Executive Risk Review Forum is mandated by the Board Risk and Capital Committee to be the Executive Risk Review Forum of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards enterprise wide risk and the measurement, monitoring and mitigation thereof.
The purpose of the Executive Risk Review Forum is to supplement the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
It assists in determining the categories of risk, the specific risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 214 Role and responsibilities The Executive Risk Review Forum will: Evaluate the most significant risks we face in the ordinary course of business Review the risk models including, but not limited to, credit models which need to be incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital Ensure that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented Act as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group Ensure the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget Provide regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework Provide regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advise on how changes to regulatory requirements will 3 affect us Ensure that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identification, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Executive directors Senior management GR Burger Group Risk and Finance Director RJ Cowley B Kantor Managing Director C Daleski A Tapnack S Heilbron PR Jacobson DM Lawrence B Tapnack M Trollip DM van der Walt RJ Wainwright JKC Whelan IR Wohlman Meeting frequency Every Friday except on Board Risk and Capital Committee dates DLC Capital Committee The DLC Capital Committee is mandated by the Board Risk and Capital Committee to be the Capital Committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions and capitalbased incentivisation.
Role and responsibilities The DLC Capital Committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC groups capital requirements Reviewing capital adequacy submissions to be made to regulators Considering the ongoing requirements and consequences of Basel II and other regulatory requirements and their impacts on regulatory capital requirements Review the risk models which need to be incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital Considering, determining and approving capital issues relating to any corporate structuring for acquisitions Monitoring the capital positions and returns on internal capital of each business unit Submission of capital recommendations to the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 215 Corporate governance continued Membership Chairman S Koseff Chief Executive Officer Membership Non-executive directors Executive directors Senior management SE Abrahams GR Burger Group Risk and SM Burgess Finance Director S Heilbron B Kantor Managing Director RJ Jacobson A Tapnack LR Penfold N Samujh B Tapnack DM van der Walt JKC Whelan 3 IR Wohlman Meeting frequency At least quarterly Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have fixed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 53.
Each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly.
Decision making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced pool of talent.
Internal control We have adopted the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales in 1999 and revised in 2005, and continued to embed these principles throughout the group during the year under review.
We apply the majority of the principles under King III.
Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The Board Risk and Capital Committee and Audit Committees assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the Group Risk Management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, significant risks faced.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identification, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as Group Risk Management, Internal Audit and Compliance.
These ongoing processes which comply with the Turnbull guidance were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, group Risk Management and the relevant Audit Committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, ensure that timely corrective action is taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
Significant risks are reviewed regularly by the Executive Risk Review Forum and by the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Material incidents and losses and significant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the Board Risk and Capital Committee and the Audit Committees.
Reports from the Audit Committees, Board Risk and Capital Committee and Risk and Control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 216 Internal financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is The board considers responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably that the groups systems qualified, that appropriate segregation exists between duties, and that there is suitable independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the Audit Committees of internal control are and are independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
appropriately designed to: Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material Provide reasonable, although breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial not absolute, assurance of both and regulatory reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, the integrity and reliability of including the independent audit process.
financial information 3 Identify and appropriately Risk management mitigate significant risks The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the systems of internal Safeguard, verify and maintain control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is accountability of assets responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation processes and Mitigate risk exposure to fraud controls within their businesses.
The independent group Risk Management functions, accountable to the board, are responsible for establishing, reviewing and monitoring the and misappropriation process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the Board Risk Support business objectives and Capital Committee and the Executive Risk Review Forum.
and sustainability under Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 105 to 195. normal and adverse operating conditions Internal audit Ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations Each significant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk-based audit approach is followed and the Audit Committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of Internal Audit report to the chairmen of the relevant Audit Committees and to the head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
For further details on the Internal Audit function, see page 196.
External audit Investecs external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc.
The independence of the external auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committees each year.
The Audit Committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit services rendered and all other audit matters.
The external auditors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings and have access to the Chairman of each Audit Committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as Directive 6 2008 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the period under review.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 217 Corporate governance continued Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy which states that: External audit firms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the Audit Committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year ended were 8.6 million 2009: 7.0 million, of which 1.8 million 2009: 1.2 million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance 3 Compliance ensures that Investec continuously complies with existing and emerging regulation impacting on our operations.
We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The Compliance function is supported by Group Compliance and Compliance Officers in the business units.
For further details on the Compliance function, see pages 197 to 201.
Regulation and supervision Investec is subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, the main ones being the Banking Supervision Department BSD of the South African Reserve Bank SARB, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
The SARB is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report regularly to regulators and supervisory bodies.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and non-financial information to primary stakeholders, as defined below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of significant interest and concern.
We seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, depositors, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry equity and debt analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example Australia.
The Investor Relations division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the boards communication and disclosure philosophy.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 218 The processes we have adopted to ensure that we comply with all public disclosure obligations are set out below: Significant announcements are released directly to the market primarily via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and also via the services offered by the other exchanges where our shares are listed.
In terms of our DLC structure, announcements are released almost simultaneously on all exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed on the Investec website as soon as possible following confirmation of release on the relevant exchanges, but within 24 hours at the latest, and are kept on the website for several years We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information We host at least four investor presentations a year: two before we enter a closed period and on the day we release interim and year end results.
Investor presentations are broadcast live via video conference from our offices in the UK and South Africa.
In addition, we also publish two interim management statements i. e. quarterly updates as required in terms of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Stakeholders are notified of these events via the stock exchange news or regulatory information services and are welcome to attend and engage with 3 executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also have the option of using a live telephone conference facility or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via our website.
Occasionally, we are invited to attend external third party investor conferences at which we present our financial and operational performance Regular contact is maintained with major stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations programme, which includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows and presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
The Investor Relations division reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other relevant reports are also circulated to the board Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are informed of business developments and activities.
In this regard a number of channels are used, including our quarterly magazine Impact, comprehensive intranet sites and staff updates hosted by the executive All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise issues and participate in discussions on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The meeting enables the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to ask questions in person.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Directors Affairs Committees, as well as the Senior Independent Director, attend the meeting to respond to relevant questions.
All valid proxy appointments are recorded and counted and, at general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
All resolutions are determined on a poll.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business are released on the stock exchange news services or regulatory information and posted on our website after the meeting.
During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the group Managing Director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director are available and will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are committed to communicating with shareholder bodies, to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
We will continue to engage these bodies so as to remain informed of emerging governance issues.
Dealings in securities Dealings in securities are subject to the Personal Account Dealing policy that has been in operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on regulatory guidance and industry practice and is updated to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and industry good practice.
The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlights the potential conflicts of interest between the interests of employees and the Investec group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
The UKs Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities by all persons discharging management responsibilities and their connected persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 219 Corporate governance continued The UK and SA Companies Acts require directors to disclose any direct or indirect material interest they have in contracts, including proposed contracts, which are of significance to the companys business.
Directors are required to make these disclosures at board meetings, and all disclosures made are recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
Directors dealings The Remuneration report, as set out on pages 231 to 251, contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
All directors dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the Chairman or, in the Chairmans absence, Sam Abrahams or Sir Chips Keswick.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, the Compliance division and the Chairman.
3 Values and code of conduct We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written Statement of Values, which serves as our Code of Ethics, and is continually reinforced.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such all new employees are invited, and are strongly encouraged, to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Our Organisation Development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, available on our intranet.
We continually strive to conduct our business with uncompromising integrity and fairness, so as to promote trust and confidence in the banking industry.
Sustainable business practices We have an acute awareness of the need for longevity and durability, across all our businesses, and an ingrained understanding of the practices that underpin sustainability.
Our triple bottom line approach is documented on pages 269 and 270 and further detail can be found on our website.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 220 Annexure to Corporate governance section King III principles The board is of the opinion, based on the practices disclosed throughout this report which were in operation during the year under review, that Investec currently applies the following governance principles as required by King III: Cross-reference to annual King III principle Cross-reference to annual report sections report pages Ethical leadership, corporate citizenship, boards and directors The board should act as the focal point for and custodian of corporate Introduction 202 governance Board of directors: roles and 205 responsibilities 3 The board should appreciate that strategy, risk, performance and sustainability Board of directors: roles and 205 are inseparable responsibilities The board should provide effective leadership based on an ethical foundation Introduction 202 Values and code of conduct 220 The board should ensure that the company is and is seen to be a responsible Our Business Responsibility 269 and 270 corporate citizen The board should ensure that the companys ethics are managed effectively Introduction 202 Values and code of conduct 220 The board should ensure that the has an effective and independent audit Audit Committees 210 213 committee The board should be responsible for the governance of risk Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities Attendance at risk meetings 207 Board Risk and Capital Committee 214 The board should be responsible for information technology IT governance Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The board should ensure that the company complies with applicable laws and Board of directors: roles and 205 considers adherence to non-binding rules, codes and standards responsibilities Compliance 197 to 201 The board should ensure that there is an effective risk-based internal audit Internal Audit 196 and 217 The board should appreciate that stakeholders perceptions affect the Reputational risk 178 companys reputation The board should ensure the integrity of the companys integrated report Board of directors: roles and 205 responsibilities The board should report on the effectiveness of the companys system of Internal control 216 internal controls Internal financial controls 217 The board and its directors should act in the best interests of the company Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The CEO of the company should not also fulfill the role of chairman of the board Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 208 The board should appoint the chief executive officer and establish a framework Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 208 for the delegation of authority The board should comprise a balance of power, with a majority of non-executive Independence 206 207 directors.
The majority of non-executive directors should be independent Directors should be appointed through a formal process Re-election of board members 209 The induction of, and ongoing training and development of directors should be Ongoing training and development 208 conducted through formal processes The board should be assisted by a competent, suitably qualified and Company Secretaries 209 experienced company secretary The board should delegate certain functions to well-structured committees but Governance framework 203 without abdicating its own responsibilities A governance framework should be agreed between the group and its Remuneration report 231 to 251 subsidiary boards Companies should remunerate directors and executives fairly and responsibly Directors annual remuneration 244 Companies should disclose the remuneration of each individual director Directors annual remuneration 244 Shareholders should approve the companys remuneration policy Notice to the AGM Resolution 11 381 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 221 Corporate governance continued Cross-reference to annual King III principle Cross-reference to annual report sections report pages Audit committees The board should ensure that the Company has an effective and independent Audit Committees 210 213 audit committee Audit committee members should be suitably skilled and experienced Membership and attendance 211 212 independent non-executive directors The audit committee is to be chaired by an independent non-executive director Membership and attendance 211 The audit committee should oversee integrated reporting Audit Committee: roles and 210 responsibilities The audit committee should ensure that a combined assurance model is applied Audit Committee report to shareholders 226 to provide a coordinated approach to all assurance activities Audit Committee: roles and 210 The audit committee should satisfy itself of the expertise, resources and 3 responsibilities experience of the Companys finance function The audit committee should be responsible for overseeing Internal Audit Audit Committee: roles and 210 responsibilities The audit committee should be an integral part of the risk management process Audit Committee report: summary of 225 the role of the Audit Committees Audit Committee report: how the 226 Committees have fulfilled their duties Operational risk indicators: reporting 177 The audit committee is responsible for recommending the appointment of the Audit Committee: roles and 210 external auditor and overseeing the external audit process responsibilities The audit committee should report to the board and shareholders on how it has Audit Committee report: how the 225 to 226 discharged its duties committee have fulfilled their duties The governance of risk The board should be responsible for the governance of risk Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The board should determine the levels of risk tolerance Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The risk committee or audit committee should assist the board in carrying out its Board of directors: roles and 206 risk responsibility responsibilities The board should delegate to management the responsibilities to design, Risk management 217 implement and monitor the risk management plan The board should ensure that risk assessments are performed on a continual Operational risk management 172 to 177 basis Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The board should ensure that frameworks and methodologies are implemented Measurement and methodologies 174 to increase the probability of anticipating unpredictable risks The board should ensure that management considers and implements Risk appetite 174 appropriate risk responses The board should ensure continual risk monitoring by management Board of directors: roles and 205 responsibilities The board should receive assurance regarding the effectiveness of the risk Board of directors: roles and 206 management process responsibilities Board of directors: roles and 205 The board should ensure that there are processes in place enabling complete, responsibilities timely, relevant, accurate and accessible risk disclosure to stakeholder The governance of information technology The board should be responsible for information technology IT governance Operational risk management 170 to 175 Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities IT should be aligned with the performance and sustainability objectives of the Board of directors: roles and 206 company responsibilities The board should delegate to management the responsibility for the Board of directors: roles and 206 implementation of an IT governance framework responsibilities The board should monitor and evaluate significance IT investments and Board of directors: roles and 206 expenditure responsibilities Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 222 Cross-reference to annual King III principle Cross-reference to annual report sections report pages IT should form an integral part of the companys risk management Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities The board should ensure that information assets are managed effectively Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities A risk committee and audit committee should assist the board in carrying out its Board of directors: roles and 206 IT responsibilities responsibilities Compliance with laws, codes, rules and standards The board should ensure that the company complies with applicable laws and Board of directors: roles and 206 considers adherence to non-binding rules, codes and standards responsibilities Compliance 197 to 201 The board and each individual director should have a working understanding of Ongoing training and development 208 3 the effect of the applicable laws, rules, codes and standards on the company and its business Compliance risk should form an integral part of the companys risk management Board of directors: roles and 206 process responsibilities Internal audit The board should ensure that there is an effective risk based internal audit Internal Audit 196 and 217 Internal audit should follow a risk based approach to its plan Internal Audit 217 Internal audit should provide a written assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit 196 companys system of internal controls and risk management The audit committee should be responsible for overseeing internal audit Audit Committee: role and 210 responsibilities Internal audit should be strategically positioned to achieve its objective Internal Audit 196 Governing stakeholder relationships The board should appreciate that stakeholders perceptions affect a companys Reputational risk 178 reputation The board should delegate to management to proactively deal with stakeholder Communication, public disclosure 218 relationships obligations and stakeholder relationships The board should strive to achieve the appropriate balance between its various Communication, public disclosure 218 stakeholder groupings, in the best interests of the company obligations and stakeholder relationships Our Business Responsibility 269 and 270 Companies should ensure the equitable treatment of shareholders Communication, public disclosure 218 obligations and stakeholder relationships Transparent and effective communication with stakeholders is essential building Communication, public disclosure 218 and maintaining their trust and confidence obligations and stakeholder relationships The board should ensure that disputes are resolved as effectively efficiently and Legal Risk Management 178 expeditiously as possible Integrated reporting and disclosure The board should ensure the integrity of the companys integrated report Board of directors: roles and 206 responsibilities Sustainability reporting and disclosure should be integrated with the companys Our Business Responsibility 269 and 270 financial reporting Investecs website at http: www.
com en za #home our business responsibility obr reports.
html Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 223 Corporate governance continued Annexure to Corporate governance section The board Audit Committees report to shareholders Introduction recognises the In terms of the DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc Audit important role of the Committee and the Investec Limited Audit Committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries with each having their own regulatory Audit Committees requirements to meet.
as part of the A DLC Audit Committee which is a combined audit committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited has responsibility to the board for matters common to both Investec plc and risk management Investec Limited.
3 and corporate The Audit Committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, as required under both UK and South African legislation, listings rules, and apply the corporate governance governance principles for audit committees as required by both the London Combined Code and King III.
processes and Principles of good governance require the audit committees to report to the board and procedures of the shareholders on how they have discharged their duties.
Investec group Investec has elected to formally report to the shareholders at the annual general meeting on the following: Whether or not the Audit Committees have adopted formal terms of reference that have been approved by the board and if so, whether the committees satisfied their responsibilities for the year in compliance with their terms of reference A summary of the role of the Audit Committees How they have fulfilled their duties The names and qualifications of all members of the Audit Committees during the period under review The number of Audit Committee meetings held during the period under review and members attendance at these meetings Whether or not the Audit Committees considered and recommended the internal audit charter for approval by the board A description of the working relationship with the head of Internal Audit Chief Audit Executive Information about any other responsibilities assigned to the Audit Committees by the board Whether the Audit Committees complied with their legal, regulatory or other responsibilities Whether or not the Audit Committees recommended the integrated report to the board for approval.
The following report has been prepared in order to address the matters above.
This report is included in the Common Business section to be dealt with at the annual general meeting taking place on 12 August 2010.
Summary of conclusions reached by the Audit Committees for the year ended 31 March 2010 Following a review and meeting the requirements of each of the terms of reference, the Audit Committees individually and combined are satisfied that: The finance functions of both Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced The group Finance Director, GR Burger, has the appropriate expertise and experience to meet the responsibilities of the position Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 224 The groups internal financial controls are effective and no material weaknesses in financial control have been identified The external auditors of both Investec plc and Investec Limited are independent.
The Audit Committees have: Reviewed and discussed the audited annual financial statements with the external auditors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director Reviewed the adjustments resulting from external audit queries and accepted the unadjusted audit differences as they were immaterial Received and considered reports from the internal auditors Reviewed and oversaw the integrated reporting process.
The Audit Committees recommended the adoption of the integrated report to the board.
The board subsequently approved the integrated report, including the financial statements, which will be open for discussion at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
3 Additional disclosures on the role, functioning and deliberations of the audit committees follow: Terms of reference The board has approved terms of reference for the Audit Committees which can be found on our website.
Summary of the role of the Audit Committees The role and responsibilities of the Committees is summarised on pages 210 and 211 of this report.
The board recognises the important role of the Audit Committees as part of the risk management and corporate governance processes and procedures of the Investec group.
In this regard the Audit Committees have oversight of: Financial reporting risks Internal financial risks Fraud and IT risks as they relate to financial reporting.
In addition, the Audit Committees are now responsible for: Overseeing the process and recommending to the board the adoption of the integrated report for the financial year ended 31 March 2010 In this regard the Audit Committees: Considered all facts and risks that may impact on the integrity of the integrated report Reviewed and commented on the financial statements included in the integrated report Reviewed the disclosure of sustainability issues in the integrated report to ensure that they are reliable and do not conflict with the financial information Reviewed the need to engage an external assurance provider on material sustainability issues but recommended to the board that it was not necessary to engage an external assurance provider Reviewed the content of the summarised integrated report Engaged the external auditors to provide assurance on the abridged report summarised financial information.
Reviewing the expertise, resources and experience of the finance function In this regard: The Chairman of the Audit Committees consulted with the Finance Director, Chief Executive Officer and both the internal and external auditors and discussed the findings with the Audit Committees The Chairman discussed the expertise, resources and experience of individual finance staff members with each of the heads of the geographical finance functions The Audit Committees reviewed the quality of the financial reporting and disclosures.
How the Committees have fulfilled their duties For each Audit Committee and Audit Sub-Committee meeting a comprehensive meeting pack is prepared with written reports received from, inter alia, the finance, internal audit, operational risk, compliance and IT functions.
Representatives from each of these functions attend the meetings by invitation and present on the significant matters included in their reports.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 225 Corporate governance continued Reports on the risk and control environment of all business units and principal operating subsidiaries are made to one of the Audit SubCommittees, with matters of major issues escalated to the Audit Committees.
At Audit Sub-Committees the senior managers of the business units meet with the risk and control functions and provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
The Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant Audit Committee or Audit Sub-Committee consider important and facilitate the timely understanding and escalation of, and response to risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The following flow chart depicts the Investec group Audit Committees structure: Audit Committees of Investec plc and Investec Limited DLC Audit Committee 3 External auditors Internal auditors Finance Audit Sub-Committees Planning budget Planning budget Accounting policies Distil only major issues to Conflict independence Resources Annual financial statements audit committees Attest and non-attest fees Annual audit plan Half year results Audit Compliance Reports to regulators Charter Year end results Implementation Forum Management letter Execution Production of audited financial High level reports Quality of earnings overs and Reporting statements of companies and unders schedule Special ad hoc work subsidiaries Information technology IT Appointment re-appointment Review of high level reports Accounting for one-off Status Internal controls transactions Major risks Accounting updates and Change control Compliance Operational risk conventions IFRS Capacity management Planning budget Fundamental internal controls Basel Security Resources Fraud and loss statistics Reconciliations Staffing High level reporting of Insurance coverage Regulatory reports Projects non-compliance Corporate governance Representation letters Governance Monitoring of special projects SA Banks Act requirements Regulatory matters Disaster recovery and business continuity Tax Key staff issues High level only Composition and membership of the Audit Committee Details on the composition and membership can be found on pages 211 to 212 of this report.
Meetings and attendance Details on the meetings and attendance can be found on pages 211 to 212 of this report.
Internal audit charter The audit committees have approved the internal audit charter and annual audit plan.
Working relationship with the head of Internal Audit Chief Audit Executive Both jurisdictions heads of Internal Audit have free access to the Chairman of the Audit Committees or any member of the Audit Committees.
They attend all Audit Committee meetings by invitation.
Information about any other responsibilities assigned to the Audit Committee by the board All responsibilities are covered in the audit committees terms of reference.
Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 226 Compliance with the legal, regulatory or other responsibilities The Audit Committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, as required under both UK and South African legislation and apply the corporate governance principles for audit committees as required by both the London Combined Code and King III External auditors are represented from both UK and South Africa and ensure that all accounting principles and standards, as required, are complied with when preparing the combined group financial statements.
Recommendation of the integrated report to the board for approval The Audit Committees recommended to the board the adoption of the integrated report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
3 SE Abrahams Chairman, Audit Committee 15 June 2010 Investec Annual Report 2010 PAGE 227 Remuneration Report | FOUR Remuneration Report | FOUR Remuneration report 231 Remuneration report
