The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance The Company adheres to the principles of Corporate Governance One third of the Directors are required to stand for re-election contained in the Combined Code available at www.
uk on each year on a rotational basis.
New Directors are subject to Corporate Governance that was issued in 2003 and updated in election at the first opportunity following appointment and all 2006 and 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
names submitted to shareholders for election are accompanied by biographies.
The Board is committed to high standards of Corporate Governance and acknowledges the importance of good Any Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than governance as being in the best interests of the Company, nine years are subject to annual re-election, and Non-Executive its shareholders and employees.
Directors who have served for more than six years are subject to rigorous review.
Details of the Directors retiring and seeking Statement of Compliance re-election at the 2010 AGM are given in the notice of the meeting.
The Group has adopted the 2008 Combined Code and considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 March The terms and conditions of appointment of Executive and 2010 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Non-Executive Directors are available to shareholders during Code, except in respect of: normal business hours at the Groups head office and at the AGM.
A3.2 The Independence of the Board Board Procedures We recognise that with three Executive Directors and two All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, the stewardship of the Groups affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors Board does not fully comply with the Combined Code regarding have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies the balance of the Board.
However, the Board unanimously proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and believes that the current composition of the Board remains critically examined to ensure that they take proper account of suitable for the nature and size of the Group.
Experience and the best long term interests of the shareholders, employees, independent judgement of our Non-Executive Directors are more customers, suppliers and the community.
We believe that the collective skills, experience and approach to running the business is To enable them to do this, all the Directors have full and timely appropriate for driving the Group forward and achieving the access to all relevant information and can take independent Groups goals whilst maintaining the highest standard of professional advice at the Groups expense at any time should Corporate Governance.
The Board is satisfied that no individual or it be necessary.
All Directors have access to the advice and group of Directors has unfettered powers of discretion and that an services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is to appropriate balance exists between the Executive and Nonensure that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and Executive members of the Board.
The appropriate number removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the of independent Non-Executive Directors is regularly reviewed.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as a consequence of the C. 3.1 The composition of the Audit Committee Board appraisal process.
We recognise that only two of the three members of the Audit Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, The Board uses an annual agenda and review timetable to ensure the Chairman will remain a member of the Audit Committee as in that relevant matters are given due consideration.
the Boards view his objectivity and ability to advise and question the Executive Directors, particularly in respect of financial affairs is Strategy not affected.
His counsel has contributed significantly to the The Executive Committee held an annual off site meeting at which Groups success.
the Groups strategy was reviewed in the context of the macro and micro economic environment, competitor strategies and the need Application of the Code for the Group to create competitive advantage.
The outcome was The Board has conducted a review of the Groups Corporate reported to the Board and taken into account when the Board Governance practice and the following statement describes how reviewed and determined the strategy of the Group.
the principles of good governance in section 1 of the Combined Code have been applied.
Business Plan The Board reviewed the three year rolling Business Plan and The Board yearly budgets forecasts were updated quarterly to support the The Company is controlled through the Board which currently Groups strategy.
Progress reporting includes a detailed monthly consists of three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
Board report circulated to the Board and at each regular Board Biographical details of all Directors are given on the Board of meeting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Directors page 34. provide an update on progress within all areas.
In addition, the interim and final results together with the Risk Register and the The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors Register of Directors Conflicts were reviewed.
As part of the excluding the Chairman are independent of management within biannual review of the Risk Register, the Board has analysed the meaning of the Combined Code and are free from any social, environmental and ethical SEE risks but have found none business or other relationships which could materially interfere to be material.
with the exercise of their independent judgement.
They bring to the Board a wide range of experience of senior management in Compliance and External Relationships other areas of commerce and industry and represent a source of All Divisional Managing Directors and Function Heads present to strong independent advice and judgement.
The Non-Executive the Board annually.
Health and Safety is reviewed in detail at each Directors meet several times a year without the Executive Board meeting and is the first item on the Board agenda.
The Board meets 10 times a year.
Individual attendance at Board The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a two year term of meetings and Board Committee meetings is set out in the table office.
The Executive Directors have one year service contracts.
Details of all payments to Directors are included in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
38 38 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39 39 Corporate Governance The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance continued In addition, Directors have frequent contact between meetings.
continues to make an effective contribution to the work of Directors also visit trading locations in order to maintain close the Board, is well prepared and informed and has a good contact with the Groups business.
understanding of the Groups businesses.
Points raised during the previous year have been satisfactorily addressed.
There is an agreed Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board for collective decision making, which was reviewed in April 2010.
The papers presented by the executive management are These matters include setting long term Group objectives and comprehensive and plans brought to the Board are challenged the strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies robustly and critically.
However, once the debate is summarised in the areas of health and safety, the environment, recruitment and a way forward agreed, the Executive Committee have and employment, risk management, treasury and, subject to total support with a strong sense of consensus and collective materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial ownership.
Audit Remuneration Nomination commitments, acquisitions and disposals and the prosecution, Committee Attendance Board Committee Committee Committee defence and settlement of litigation.
P T Warry 10 2 5 3 The Board has delegated to the Group Chief Executive R Murray 10 n a n a n a responsibility for the development and preparation of the Business G Slark 10 n a n a 3 Plan for the Group and annual Group budget for recommendation R J Harrison OBE 9 2 5 3 to the Board.
As the Senior Executive Director, the Group Chief T Osbaldiston 10 2 5 3 Executive is responsible for all aspects of day to day operational F M Elkins 4 n a n a n a control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The A Ball 5 n a n a n a Group Chief Executive has established and chairs an Executive Number of meetings Committee whose other members are the Managing Directors of in the year 10 2 5 3 principal operating businesses, the Group Finance Director, Non-Executive Directors three.
Function Heads and the Group Company Secretary to assist him Where n a appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
in the performance of his duties which meets once a month.
There is a clear division between the roles and responsibilities of the The Remuneration Committee Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and both have been set The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive out in writing.
Directors only and is chaired by Mr R J Harrison OBE.
The Remuneration Committee has access to external research on The Terms of Reference for the Board and each of its Committees market data and trends provided by an independent experienced are available on request from the Group Company Secretary, for consultant.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who have inspection at the Annual General Meeting and are also available no other connection with the Company, continued to be the on the Companys website www.
The Business Companys advisors during the year.
Information is available Conduct Policy, the Environmental Policy, the Health and in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Safety Policy, the Ethical Trading Policy, the Charity Policy, the Community Policy and the Public Policy are also available The Committee decides on all aspects of the remuneration on this website.
of the Executive Directors and the Chairman including basic salaries, performance related elements like short and long Information and Professional Development term bonuses, share options and other benefits.
It advises the The Board is supplied with information in a form and quality to Board on matters relating to the remuneration of the Group as a enable it to take informed decisions and to discharge its duties.
whole such as pay rises, Group wide SAYE schemes, Executive Directors were provided with the opportunity to update their skills Share schemes or grants for Executives other than main Board and knowledge, including, in the year under review, updates on Directors.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is final implementation of the Companies Act 2006 and the Bribery determined by the Board.
In the case of newly appointed Directors, an induction programme which includes training on the responsibilities of a The Nomination Committee Director occurs prior to or immediately following the appointment The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive to the Board.
In addition, several Board meetings a year are held Directors and the Group Chief Executive and is chaired by at Group locations other than Head Office.
Appointments to Executive Director are fully discussed by the Chairman and Group Chief Executive with the Board Effectiveness Remuneration and Nomination Committees before a proposal is The evaluation of effectiveness of the Board and its Committees formally made to the Board by the Chairman of the Nomination focused on a number of areas, including those concerned with Committee.
Possible new Non-Executive Directors are chosen best practice based on the principles of good governance.
Our from a shortlist supplied by external consultants in light of the evaluation was carried out internally by the Chairman through requirements of the Groups business and the need to have a a detailed questionnaire and formal appraisals of the individual balanced Board.
Recruitment consultants are used to assist performance of the Non-Executive Directors were conducted the process.
by the Chairman by holding a meeting with each Director.
All Executive Directors are appraised annually by the Group Chief Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman, in Executive and the Group Chief Executive is appraised by the conjunction with the Group Company Secretary and the Group Chairman.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the Chief Executive, is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal Non-Executive Directors meet without the Chairman present and tailored induction to the Company is given.
The Nomination annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Committee meets at least annually and reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations The Directors assessed the findings of the appraisal in February for any changes.
It discusses and gives full consideration to 2010 and concluded that the Board members demonstrate succession planning at both Group level and the management commitment, give sound guidance and direction to the business level immediately below.
Candidates are identified and nominated and that the Board Committees operate effectively.
Each Director to fill Group vacancies both Executive and Non-Executive, as and when they arise.
40 40 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41 41 The Audit Committee The Executive Committee is currently comprised of Gavin Slark The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors Chairman Group Chief Executive, Roddy Murray Group and the Group Chairman only and has been chaired by Finance Director, Frank Elkins Executive Director and MD of BSS Mr T Osbaldiston since his appointment on 1 January 2004, Industrial, Kelvin Stevens MD of PTS, Howard Luft MD of Buck who as the Finance Director of Raymarine PLC until May 2010, & Hickman, Mark Earnshaw MD of F & P Wholesale, Anthony has recent and relevant financial expertise.
The Board considers that Smith MD of Birchwood Products, Kelvin Liscombe Corporate the membership of the Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient Development Director, Sandra Smith Group Human Resources recent and relevant financial experience to discharge its functions.
Director, Jonathan Jennings Group Central Services Director, Executive Directors, external auditors and the internal auditors also Mike Spalding Group IT Director and Ute Ball Group attend by invitation as required.
The Committee monitors the integrity Company Secretary.
of the financial statements of the Group and reviews significant financial reporting issues.
The effectiveness of internal controls and Internal Control risk management systems are kept under review.
Through the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Groups Whistle Blowing Policy, employees of the Group may raise and has reviewed its effectiveness during the year.
The Combined concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, other Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the operational matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in the work Groups system of internal control which includes financial, place.
Whistle blowing incidents and their outcome are reported to operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee meets with both the external and internal auditors on several occasions The system of internal control is designed to safeguard the assets during the year without Executive Directors being present.
of the Group, ensure the accuracy of its reporting and enable efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations.
The Committee ensures that an adequate, properly resourced In establishing this system, the Directors considered the nature and supported internal audit function is in place and monitors and of the Groups business, including the materiality of the risks reviews its effectiveness.
The effectiveness of the external audit is being run, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs also reviewed and the Committee ensures that recommendations of control and mitigation of likely losses.
It therefore follows that are acted upon by management.
the system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance.
The external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and meet with him without management An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing present.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and the significant risks faced by the Group has been in place from has overall responsibility for monitoring the Groups systems the beginning of the financial year to the date of approval of the of internal financial control, the external and internal reporting Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed processes and the financial control environment of the Group.
by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, Directors and the Combined Code produced by the Turnbull its cost effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity Guidance 2005. of the auditors.
 LLP PwC are engaged as the external auditors to all the Groups companies The processes by which the Board review the effectiveness and have held the role for over 30 years.
Details of audit and of the internal control system include the following: non-audit fees are set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
An established framework of internal financial control including Non-audit fees principally relate to taxation advice.
All services independent check, which includes a clearly defined performed by PwC are carried out in accordance with the management structure and comprehensive systems of requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Boards Ethical budgeting and financial reporting which are reviewed by Standard 5, relating to non-audit services performed by the successive levels of management Companys auditors.
Guidelines for capital expenditure which include budgets, appraisal and review procedures and successive authorisation levels The Committee has undertaken its annual review of the Internal financial controls and procedures for branches are qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the included in branch operating manuals external auditors and the effectiveness of the external audit All trading locations are reviewed regularly by the Internal process by: reviewing, and approving, PwCs plans for the audit Audit department, and the Audit Committee receives reports of the Groups financial statements, the terms of engagement for from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis the audit and the proposed audit fee: considering the views of The Executive Management Committee receives a monthly Directors, senior management and the PwC engagement partner summary of financial results and the Groups published on PwCs independence, objectivity, integrity, audit strategy and biannual financial information is based on a standardised its relationship with the Group, obtained by way of interview: and reporting process taking into account information provided by PwC on their independence and quality control procedures.
In making its The Group also has in place systems and procedures for existing recommendation to the Board that PwC be reappointed for control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting and the a further year, the Committee took into account their tenure as preparation of consolidated accounts.
auditors and considered whether there should be a full tender process.
There were no contractual obligations restricting the The Directors have also reviewed the effectiveness of the system Committees choice of external auditors.
of internal financial control during the period in conjunction with the work of the Internal Audit department in relation to the Executive Committee safeguarding of assets, the maintenance of proper accounting The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing the records and the reliability of financial information used within the strategies and policies determined by the Board, managing the business and for publication.
business and affairs of the Company, prioritising human resources and establishing best management practices.
The Executive Committee is also responsible for monitoring the Divisional Boards performance.
40 40 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41 41 Corporate Governance The Combined Code Principles of Good Governance continued Investor Relations Going Concern Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Formal communications accounting for the Companys affect its future development, performance and position are set performance and strategy are principally through the Annual out in the Business Review section.
The financial position of the Report and Accounts and announcements made through the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Stock Exchange and at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, described in the Financial Review section.
In addition notes 13 corporate information is made available to investors on the and 16 to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, Companys website www.
policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and Presentations are made to institutional shareholders following hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
the announcement of the Companys full year and interim results, and regular meetings are held between these investors and The Group has reviewed its key risk areas and in particular the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
In liquidity risk in relation to its bank facilities, credit risk associated addition, institutional shareholders have visited some of the with the Groups key customers and the risk of reduced demand Groups distribution centres.
The Chairman attends some of the for its products due to the current economic downturn in the meetings with investors and is available to meet with institutional United Kingdom.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking investors upon request.
account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, its current facilities.
The Group renegotiated its Revolving Credit receive a report on any significant discussions with shareholders Facility during April 2009 and therefore now has 90m debt not and the feedback that follows the interim and yearly presentations due for repayment until 2012, 43m not due until 2013 and 29m to investment analysts and shareholders.
All Directors attend the not due until 2016.
Annual General Meeting and the Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
Directors, including the After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable expectation Chairmen of the Committees, are present to answer any questions that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to from shareholders.
The Notice of the Meeting is sent to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis results of proxy voting by shareholders will be disclosed for each in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
separate resolution and will be posted on the Companys website as well as disclosed upon request.
Mr R J Harrison OBE, has held the post of Senior Independent Director since 3 August 2006 and is the Director whom shareholders may contact if they feel their concerns are not being addressed.
42 42 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43 43
