Lord Leach of Fairford, Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Non-Executive Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-executive Director in January Rodney Leach was Chairman of Jardine Insurance Brokers, latterly 2002, became Joint Deputy Chairman in November 2004 and the JIB Group plc, between 1988 and 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Senior Independent Director in April 2005.
Chairman of the Company in February 1997.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 when he relinquished the He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the appointments as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Other directorships include Jardine Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
Matheson Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG and various listed Jardine Matheson Group companies.
He remains a member of the Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nationwide Building Society and a nonexecutive director of Close Brothers Plc.
M F G Drummond Brady of Railtrack Group plc, a director of Investec plc, group general Mark Drummond Brady has been with the JLT Group since 1987 counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and managing partner of and has held a number of senior posts in the Group.
He is the Clifford Chance.
Groups International Chairman of Risk & Insurance.
He was appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc 2.
D J Burke, Chief Executive on 1st March 2011 and is a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson in 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of companies, of which he was Chief Executive and co-founder, became part of JLT.
R J Harvey Dominic is Chairman of the Group Executive Committee and was Non-Executive Chief Executive of the UK and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Richard Harvey was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Group's Employee Benefits businesses until December 2005.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, Nominations was appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Jardine and Remuneration Committees.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Lloyd Thompson Group plc on 1st January 2005.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive on 1st December 2005, He enjoyed a long and successful career in the insurance industry standing down as Chief Operating Officer on that date.
principally with Norwich Union where he was Chief Executive from He was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman 1998 to 2000 and subsequently with Aviva plc where he was Group of Newbury Racecourse PLC in November 2010.
He was also Chair of the Association of British Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of PZ Cussons plc.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
