American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 26 Directors Report continued them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period Corporate Governance of one year.
During the year the potential conflicts of interest were reviewed and considered by the Nomination Committee.
Compliance There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent The Company is committed to high standards of corporate professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Directors Responsibilities on page 32, indicates how the Director has to the advice and services of the Company Company has applied the principles of good governance of the 1 Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the 1 ensuring adherence to Board procedures and compliance with Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance applicable rules and regulations.
the AIC Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Board Composition The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by corporate governance and considers that the Company has Hamish Buchan, all of whom are considered to be independent complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, investment, business and financial skills and experience and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on page 19.
Role of the Board A review of Board composition and balance is included as part A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether includes management of the Companys assets within the a senior independent director should be appointed and has guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the concluded that, as the Board is comprised entirely of provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Fox, is available to for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This through discussion with the Chairman.
includes determination and monitoring of the Companys investment objectives and policy and its future strategic Tenure direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service providers, Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual review of key investment and financial data and the Companys General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a maximum The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is information is provided to the Board to enable it to function appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
The effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their Board does not believe that length of service in itself responsibilities.
necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential when making a recommendation, the Board will take into conflicts of interest for approval.
These are considered account the ongoing requirements of the Combined Code, carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than nine 1 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
26 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 27 The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering office and at the AGM.
issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of it confirms that Sarah Bates, who retires by rotation at this the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees years AGM, continues to be an effective Director and and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the demonstrates commitment to her role, and thus the Board Board, are completed by each Director.
The responses are recommends her re-election.
The Board also recommends the collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The re-election of Hamish Buchan, who is subject to annual evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, whilst re-election as he has served as a Director of the Company for the other Directors evaluate the performance of the Chairman a period in excess of nine years.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own re-election, the Nomination Committee conducted a thorough performance and that of its committees.
review of his performance as Chairman and were satisfied that he continues to demonstrate effective leadership of the Board Committees Company.
He has indicated his intention to retire at the Nomination Committee Companys AGM in 2012.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan and comprising all of the Directors, meets at least annually to Meetings and Committees ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills to The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown candidates, when necessary, for appointment.
A variety of with the Directors profiles on page 19. sources, including the use of external search consultants, are used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered.
The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation, were five Board meetings, including a private meeting of the as described above, to ensure that all members of the Board Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination work of the Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees Committee were held.
and makes recommendations to the Board as and when required.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Audit Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings The Audit Committee, chaired by James Fox and comprising Director Attended Attended Attended four of the Directors, meets at least twice each year.
Hamish Buchan, as Chairman of the Company, is not a member of the 1 Hamish Buchan 52 1 Committee and attends by invitation only.
The members of the Sarah Bates 52 1 Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and Kate Bolsover 42 1 experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
James Fox 52 1 The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the James Williams 52 1 Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and 1 Attended by invitation of the committee.
the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement, examines the Training and Appraisal effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems and On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide receives information from the Managers compliance all Directors with induction training.
It also reviews the scope and results of the JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 28 Directors Report continued external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in objectivity of the external auditors, including the provision of time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of non-audit services and the period of service held by the senior the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise statutory auditor.
Representatives of the Companys auditors questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit attend the Committee meeting at which the draft annual report questions via the Companys website or write to the Company and accounts are considered.
There are no contractual Secretary at the address shown on page 65. restrictions on the choice of the Committee as to external Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be auditors.
The current tenure of the external auditor dates from published on the Company website shortly after the Annual 10th August 2006.
Any decision to open the external audit to General Meeting.
tender is taken on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement on the Companys system Internal Control of internal control is set out below.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, Terms of Reference to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has written terms of reference which define clearly their respective identified to include business, financial, operational, responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Companys compliance and risk management.
website and for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys Relations with Shareholders assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that financial information used within the business, or published, The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve understanding of the Companys activities and performance business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and misstatement or loss.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of Since investment management, custody of assets and all the net asset value of the Companys shares.
administrative services are provided to the Company by JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
The Company does not have an internal addition, a presentation is given by one of the New York based audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit members of the investment management team who reviews department of JPMAM which reports any material failings or the Companys performance.
During the year the investment weaknesses.
This arrangement is kept under annual review.
management team, JPMAM and the Companys brokers hold The key elements designed to provide effective internal control regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are are as follows: made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves available as and when required to address Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through the Board of key investment and financial data, including the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of transactions and performance comparisons.
28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 29 Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a corporate governance, voting policy and social and manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in the Board: a written agreement.
Corporate Governance Management Systems The Managers system of internal JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment control includes organisational agreements which clearly process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the activity.
Proxy Voting The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would Companys system of internal control by monitoring the manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what its associates as follows: will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are of the management agreement and receives regular invested.
reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: Stewardship Engagement the Board reviews a report, which is also independently JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, the Directors review every six months an independent managers should: report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system monitor their investee companies: of internal control for the year ended 31st December 2010, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
and Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its investments and supports its principles as best practice.
We believe that regular contact with the Corporate Governance, Voting Policy and Corporate Social companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we Responsibility also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 American pp20 32 American pp20 32 09 03 2011 15:43 Page 30 Directors Report continued Social & Environmental JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
This analysis is then used to identify outliers which require further engagement.
JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
co. uk Institutional  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
By order of the Board AK Norman, for and on behalf of J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 9th March 2011 30 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
