If resolution 9 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase of corporate governance and considers that the Company has pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
As at 27th September 2010 being the latest practicable date Role of the Board prior to the publication of this document, there were no A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM warrants or options over Ordinary shares in the capital of the sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
Company, other than the 18,070,137 Subscription shares in This includes management of the Companys assets and the issue each of which gives the holder thereof the right to provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative subscribe for one new Ordinary share which represent 15.8% and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
If the authority for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters to repurchase the Companys Ordinary shares was exercised in reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This full and the authority to purchase Subscription shares not includes determination and monitoring of the Companys exercised at all then the Subscription shares would represent investment objectives and policy and its future strategic 18.6% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and removal of third party service providers, The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting review of key investment and financial data and the Companys on pages 58 and 59.
Repurchases of Ordinary shares will be corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely when market conditions are appropriate.
information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their Recommendation responsibilities.
The Board considers that resolutions 7 to 9 are likely to There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent promote the success of the Company and are in the best professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 13,984 are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.01% of the complied with.
voting rights of the Company.
Board Composition The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of five Corporate Governance non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Compliance Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including The Company is committed to high standards of corporate the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of knowledge, business and financial skills and experience Directors Responsibilities on page 29, indicates how the relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical Company has applied the principles of good governance of the details of each Director are set out on page 15.
Financial Reporting Council Combined Code 2008 the A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of the AIC Code, which complements the Combined Code and which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 Directors Report continued available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be a Nomination Committee meeting and a Remuneration resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Anatole Kaletsky is founding partner and Chief Economist of Board Committee Committee Committee Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys Director Attended Attended Attended Attended independence as a Director of the Company.
David Gamble 5 2 1 1 Tenure Anatole Kaletsky 5 2 1 1 Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Nigel Kenny 5 2 1 1 General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Percy Mistry 5 2 1 1 Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
1 Valentine Powell 2 1 Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three 1 Roy Reynolds 21 years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out each 2 Alan Saunders 52 1 1 year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the 1 Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe Retired from the Board on 30th October 2009.
2 that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009, Mr Saunders now attends by invitation.
from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of Training and Appraisal the Combined Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys Articles of Association The Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors require that Directors stand for re-election at least every three with induction training on appointment.
Any Director who has served for a period of more than briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements nine years will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of office and at the Annual General Meeting.
the Manager, its own performance and of that of its committees and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the As a result of the Boards evaluation process described below, Board, are completed by each Director.
The responses are it confirms that David Gamble and Alan Saunders, who stand collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting, evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and continue to be effective Directors and the Board recommends the Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the their re-election.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that of its Committees.
Meetings and Committees The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Board Committees committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, Nomination Committee with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists Committee by invitation.
of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that The table below details the number of Board and Committee the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose were five Board meetings, plus a meeting of the Directors suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A variety to evaluate the Manager two Audit Committee meetings, of sources, including the use of external search consultants, 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of all of the considered.
Directors and meets annually to review the performance of the Manager.
The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted Terms of Reference sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management Board.
Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies Remuneration Committee of which are available on the Companys website and for The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, inspection on request at the Companys registered office and consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other Relations with Shareholders Directors, taking into account both boards of other investment trusts and corporate salaries generally to ensure that high The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the quality people are attracted and retained.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and performance Audit Committee and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and membership is set out on page 15, meets at least twice each two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that they the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the the net asset value of the Companys shares.
At least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager the terms of the management agreement and examines the who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular receives information from the Managers Compliance discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made department and also reviews the scope and results of the fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence themselves available as and when required to address and objectivity of the external auditors.
Representatives of the shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through Companys auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at the Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, the The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit General Meeting.
questions via the Companys website or write to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 65.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out below.
Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual Management Engagement Committee General Meeting.
Subsequent to the end of the year under review, the Board has established a Management Engagement Committee.
The JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Directors Report continued Internal Control Management Systems The Managers system of internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has with FSA rules.
identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of Board.
internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, financial information used within the business, or published, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, reviews the terms of the management agreement and but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance misstatement or loss.
department: Since investment management, custody of assets and all reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations administrative services are provided to the Company by of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal independently reviewed: and control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls reviews every six months an independent report on the established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
There is an ongoing process for By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year Companys system of internal control for the year ended under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual 30th June 2010 and to the date of approval of this Annual report and accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, This arrangement is kept under review.
the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
The key elements designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
the Board of key investment and financial data, including The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted transactions and performance comparisons.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, go to www.
co. uk institutional and whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section agreement.
26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment Corporate Social Responsibility performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the corporate governance principles and practices of the Board: companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial in the management of their business.
interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance nonfinancial issues, such as social and environmental issues, process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the can have an economic impact and that any company run in the voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage long term interests of its shareholders will need to manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our environment and society as a whole.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the take these factors into account as part of any investment meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key corporate governance issues, including disclosure and By order of the Board transparency, board composition and independence, control Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy Secretary voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM 28th September 2010 makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
