Under the 2006 Act all provisions of the Companys Corporate Governance memorandum, but most significantly the objects clause, Compliance are deemed to form part of the Companys articles from The Company is committed to high standards of corporate 1st October 2009.
It is possible for the objects clause to be governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of removed or amended by amending the articles by special Directors Responsibilities on page 30, indicates how the resolution.
It is not necessary under the 2006 Act for a Company has applied the principles of good governance of the company to set out its objects.
The 2006 Act provides that, 1 Financial Reporting Council 2008 Combined Code the unless the articles state otherwise, a companys objects will be Combined Code and the Association of Investment unrestricted.
1 Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC One of the other key provisions of the memorandum which Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides a is deemed to form part of the Companys articles from framework of best practice for investment trusts.
1st October 2009 is the restriction created by the existing The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of authorised share capital statement.
The 2006 Act removes corporate governance and considers that the Company has the requirement for a company to place limits on its complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined authorised share capital.
Code, other than in respect of the provision relating to the By adopting the new Articles which do not contain the objects appointment of a senior independent director, and the AIC clause or the authorised share capital statement, the Company Code throughout the year under review.
will remove these provisions, which would otherwise be Role of the Board deemed to form part of the Companys articles under section A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM 28 of the 2006 Act, from its articles.
sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This For a more detailed explanation of these and other includes management of the Companys assets and the amendments please refer to the Appendix to this report on provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration pages 58 to 61. and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters A copy of the current articles of association and the proposed reserved for Board decision has been approved.
This includes new articles of association that reflect these amendments will determination and monitoring of the Companys investment be available for inspection during normal business hours objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and offices of JPMAM, Finsbury Dials, 20 Finsbury Street, London removal of third party service providers, review of key EC2Y 9AQ up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be investment and financial data and the Companys corporate available at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London governance and risk control arrangements.
EC2R 5BJ, being the place of the AGM, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the AGM.
The Board meets at least five times during the year and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely v Company Name resolution 12 information is provided to the Board to enable it to function The Board recommends that the Companys name be changed effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their to JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
this recommendation are given in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, and at the Companys Recommendation expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, The Board considers that resolutions 6 to 12 are likely to JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that promote the success of the Company and are in the best Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The regulations are complied with.
Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of 1 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are organisations websites: www.
co. uk exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 40,771 shares representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share capital of the Company.
JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Directors Report continued Board Composition members of Committees may attend at the invitation of the The Board, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, consists of five Chairman.
non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the The table below details the number of Board and Committee Board as independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there have a breadth of investment, knowledge, business and were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys one Nomination Committee meeting.
business and brief biographical details of each Director are set Audit Nomination out on page 18.
Board Committee Committee A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Meetings Meetings Meetings of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Director Attended Attended Attended which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether a senior independent director should be appointed and has Elisabeth Airey 5 2 1 concluded that, as the Board comprises entirely of Anthony Davidson 5 2 1 non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
The Chairman Paul Manduca 5 2 1 of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairman.
Federico Marescotti 5 2 1 Michael Wrobel 5 2 1 Tenure Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Training and Appraisal General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a maximum briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation that affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
The issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its when making a recommendation, the Board will take into own performance and of that of its committees and individual account the requirements of the Combined Code, including the Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and Articles of Association require that Directors stand for then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of re-election at least every three years.
Any Director who has individual Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Audit served for a period of more than nine years will stand for Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans annual re-election thereafter.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that of its committees.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are Board Committee available for inspection on request at the Companys registered Nomination Committee office and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to The Board confirms that Elisabeth Airey, who retires by rotation ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and at this years Annual General Meeting, continues to be an experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and effective Director and demonstrates commitment to her role propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
and therefore recommends her re-election.
It has agreed that a new Director will be recruited in the near Meetings and Committees future to enable the Board to be refreshed over the coming two The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to to three years.
An external agency has been engaged to committees.
Details of membership of committees are shown conduct the search for a new Director.
with the Directors profiles on page 18.
Directors who are not 26 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes brokers, the investment managers and JPMAM hold regular recommendations to the Board as and when required.
The Directors are made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Audit Committee themselves available as and when required to address The Audit Committee, chaired by Anthony Davidson, consists of shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through all the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. members of the Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in the Committee.
time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and questions via the Companys website or write to the Company the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews Secretary at the address shown on page 65. the terms of the management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be receives information from the Managers Compliance published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual department and reviews the scope and results of the external General Meeting.
audit, its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit Internal Control services and the independence and objectivity of the external The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to auditors: in the Directors opinion the auditors are considered review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal independent.
Representatives of the Companys auditors control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has Report and Accounts are considered.
During the year, the identified as including business, financial, operational, Committee reviewed the Managers internal audit compliance and risk management.
arrangements and its whistleblowing policy.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal internal control, which is designed to safeguard the Companys control is set out on pages 27 to 28. assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have financial information used within the business, or published, is written terms of reference which define clearly their respective reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Companys manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve website, on request at the Companys registered office and at business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, the Companys Annual General Meeting.
but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Since investment management, custody of assets and all Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full administrative services are provided to the Company by understanding of the Companys activities and performance JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by way of the annual report and accounts, the half year financial JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls report and two interim management statements.
This is established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys supplemented by the daily publication, through the London business objectives.
The Company does not have an internal Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which reports any material failings or All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys weaknesses.
The key elements designed to provide effective Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and internal control are as follows: representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Directors Report continued Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by JPMAM is committed to delivering superior investment the Board of key investment and financial data, including performance to its clients worldwide.
We believe that one of management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of the drivers of investment performance is an assessment of the transactions and performance comparisons.
corporate governance principles and practices of the companies in which we invest our clients assets and we expect Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and those companies to demonstrate high standards of governance custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, in the management of their business.
whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written agreement.
Proxy voting is an important part of the corporate governance process, and we view seriously our obligation to manage the Management Systems The Managers system of internal voting rights of the shares entrusted to us as we would manage control includes organisational agreements which clearly any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control and diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our Compliance Department which regularly monitors compliance clients.
So far as is practicable we will vote at all of the with FSA rules.
meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the In order to do this we have formulated detailed guidelines for Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the each region, which set out our stance on a variety of key Board.
corporate governance issues, including disclosure and The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, transparency, board composition and independence, control keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system structures, remuneration, as well as social and environmental of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key issues see below.
These guidelines form the basis of our proxy operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: voting decisions, although it should be noted that JPMAM makes all of its voting decisions on a case by case basis, taking reviews the terms of the management agreement and into account the individual circumstances of each vote.
receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: The Board reviews the actual voting pursuant to this policy on an annual basis.
reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself Corporate Social Responsibility independently reviewed: and The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate social responsibility which has been noted by the reviews every six months an independent report on the Board: internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
We believe it is our primary duty to act in the best financial By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms interests of our clients and to achieve good financial returns that in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, it has reviewed consistent with an acceptable level of risk.
We recognise that the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control non-financial issues, such as social and environmental issues, for the year ended 31st March 2010 and to the date of approval can have an economic impact and that any company run in the of this Annual Report and Accounts.
long-term interests of its shareholders will need to manage During the course of its review of the system of internal control, effectively relationships with its employees, suppliers and the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or customers, to behave ethically and to have regard to the weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
environment and society as a whole.
Our investment managers take these factors into account as part of any investment Corporate Governance and Voting Policy decision.
The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statement on corporate governance and voting policy which has been noted by the Board.
The full policy is available from JPMAM on request, or can be downloaded from the internet as follows: go By order of the Board to www.
co. uk institutional and Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of within the Commentary & Analysis tab you will find a section JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, on Corporate Governance.
Secretary 27th May 2010 28 JPMorgan European Fledgeling Investment Trust plc.
