7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 38 38 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance The Board of BTG recognises its accountability to shareholders The Chief Executive officer, Louise Makin, is primarily and believes that good corporate governance is essential responsible for the running of the Group.
Rolf Soderstrom, to running a successful company.
The Board is committed Chief Financial officer, is responsible for all financial to ensuring that high levels of corporate governance are reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the Group.
maintained that underpin the management of the Companys affairs.
This report explains how the Company applies the The Board has appointed Giles Kerr as the Senior principles of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Independent Non-executive Director SID.
The principal Governance the Code, published by the Financial Reporting role of the SID is to support the Chairman in his role, to lead Council FRC.
non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is a clear division of responsibility between The Board considers that the Company complied with all the Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
He is also available the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the to shareholders to enable them to express concerns which year to 31 March 2010.
More information on the Code can the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be found on the FRC website, www.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance The names and brief biographical details of all the directors The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including are set out on pages 34 and 35.
The table below details the the Chairman, and two executive directors.
The Board is composition of the Board, its committees, together with their chaired by John Brown who is responsible for leading the attendance at meetings since the last Annual Report and the Board and ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
Companys assessment of the independence of the directors.
Board and committee composition Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration and attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 8 2 3 4 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO No 8 n a n a n a Rolf Soderstrom CFO No 8 n a n a n a Non-executive directors a John Brown Nom No 8 2 n a n a Colin Blakemore Aud, Rem Yes 8 n a 3 4 Peter Chambr Rem, Nom Yes 8 2 n a 4 William Jenkins Aud, Rem Yes 8 n a 3 4 b Giles Kerr Aud, Rem, Nom Yes 8 2 3 4 c James OShea Rem, Nom Yes 8 2 n a 4 a John Brown is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
b Giles Kerr joined the Remuneration Committee on 3 November 2009. c James OShea was appointed to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 13 May 2009. d Directors who are not Committee members may attend meetings by invitation.
Details are not included in the table.
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 39 39 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
Act 2006 directors conicts of interests which came into The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive force on 1 October 2008, the Companys articles were directors every year, using its own judgement when applying amended in October 2008 to enable the Board to authorise the criteria in the Code.
Having undertaken this review, situations that might give rise to directors conicts of interest.
the Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are Directors were asked to complete a declaration form in considered to be independent in character and judgement.
order to determine whether any actual or potential conicts In line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half needed authorisation.
The Company Secretary reviewed the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent nonthe responses and confirmed that no conicts arose.
The Chairman, John Brown, was Subsequently Board members are reminded at regular considered to be independent at the date of appointment intervals to disclose any conicts should they arise.
To date although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded no material conicts of interest have arisen.
from the determination of whether at least half the Board are independent non-executive directors thereafter.
At the March 2010 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary amendments to their The Board has a number of matters specically reserved existing declarations.
All such notications are kept in for its decision or approval.
These include the approval a conicts register maintained by the Company Secretary.
of the interim and annual financial statements, the interim Any director who considers they may have a potential management statements and major public announcements, conict of interest should report this to the Chairman setting strategic direction, budgets and long-term plans.
in first instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee Other areas include the approval of major investments and report their findings to the Board.
and disposals, major capital expenditure, major litigation, significant nancing, dividend policy and senior executive There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent remuneration and appointments.
professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have direct access to the advice and the services The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring the performance of management, succession planning, that Board procedures are followed.
The Company arranges health, safety and environmental performance and appropriate directors and ofcers liability insurance.
standards of ethical and social behaviour.
It is also The removal of a director or of the Company Secretary responsible for developing robust corporate governance is a matter for the Board as a whole.
and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and assets and the integrity Information and training, performance evaluation of its financial information.
and re-election of directors The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers While the executive and non-executive directors are for each item to be discussed, in advance of each Board collectively responsible for the success of the Company or Committee meeting.
Additional information is provided and have duciary duties towards shareholders, their roles as appropriate and senior executives regularly make are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct presentations at Board meetings on the results and responsibility for the business operations of the Company, strategies in their areas of responsibility.
the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring independent and objective judgement to Board decisions Upon joining BTG each director receives a comprehensive and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the induction package, including written information and effective running of the Board.
The non-executives duties opportunities to meet key and relevant members of staff.
include helping to develop the Companys strategy and All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through constructively challenging the executive directors where publications and conferences and through information they consider it appropriate.
provided by the Company and its advisers.
The Board evaluates its own effectiveness and that of its Committees on an annual basis, both through measuring performance against annual objectives and through an individual appraisal process.
The chairman of each Committee reports the results of the reviews back to the Board with identied areas for future action.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 40 40 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of Louise Makin and Peter Chambr are standing for re-election the CFO, the Chairman and non-executive directors review at the 2010 AGM.
The Board has reviewed their performance the performance of the CEO.
Each director was asked and commitment to the business and, in the opinion of the to complete a questionnaire comprising both qualitative Board, they continue to show effectiveness and commitment and quantitative responses.
The Chairman, John Brown, in their respective roles.
Louise Makin has a strong background subsequently interviewed each director separately to discuss in the life sciences area and has shown substantial leadership individual performance as a director over the past year, the in her role as CEO in returning the Group to profitability effectiveness of the Committees and the Board as a whole and in integrating the two businesses together since the and how it might improve its monitoring of the business.
acquisition of the Protherics Group.
Peter Chambr has The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent shown substantial commitment and independence in his Director and following input from the executive directors, role as a non-executive director and has substantial evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
The Committees experience in managing life science companies.
Further also reviewed their performance and reported the results information on the directors is shown in their biographies to the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The operation on pages 34 and 35. of the Board and its members was felt to be effective and the Board considered it had a good mix of experience and skills.
Financing reporting and internal control The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the the executive directors in order to discuss the performance preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 59 of the executive directors and any concerns over their and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities management of the Companys affairs.
of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on page 60.
All directors are required to stand for election at the first AGM following their appointment and then to be re-elected Communications with shareholders, be they results at least once every three years thereafter.
The Board reviews announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM its constitution regularly and has established a clear plan and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved for refreshing its members.
During the year ended 31 March by the Board or a sub-committee thereof in order to ensure 2008 Sir Brian Fender retired and was replaced as Chairman they are transparent and balanced in the view they give by John Brown.
Fred Weiss retired, having served for two of the Companys progress and prospects.
three-year terms, and was replaced on the Board and as chairman of the Audit Committee by Giles Kerr and The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Colin Blakemore also joined the Board.
At the 2008 AGM Group maintains an adequate system of internal control Consuelo Brooke retired from the Board, having served for and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
two three-year terms and Alison Wood retired due to other The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the commitments.
In December 2008 Rolf Soderstrom joined detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and the Board following the acquisition of Protherics and Christine reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed Soden retired on 31 March 2009.
On 2 April 2009, James the system of internal controls including financial controls OShea was appointed to the Board.
After these changes for the year under review and up to the date of approval the Board comprised of the non-executive Chairman, five of this Annual Report.
Such a system is designed to manage independent non-executive directors, the CEO and CFO.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business As reported in the Nomination Committee report on page objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not 46, the Committee continues to review the composition of absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the necessary skills The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness to continue the development of the business.
of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identied and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
BTG has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing the performance of the Group.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 41 41 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The day-to-day running of BTGs operations is managed by The Group has two committees containing senior members the Companys Senior Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO.
of staff who review all stages of its development operations: Other members include the CFO and senior staff members a committee responsible for the review and recommendation from the business.
This team is also responsible for the of potential acquisitions or in-licensing of new drug recommendation to the Board of the Companys strategy programmes and a committee responsible for the review and its subsequent implementation, for ensuring that and proactive management of all projects in BTGs appropriate internal controls are in place to manage and development portfolio.
These committees report regularly assess risk and that they are fully complied with.
to the Senior Leadership Team and are able to call on the expertise of various internal and external experts to ensure Following the acquisition of the Protherics Group, the Company the programmes are developed effectively and meet set up an Integration Committee to manage all aspects commercial and market needs.
of bringing the two businesses together.
This committee continued its work during 2009 10 including a progress The Group has also set up a Compliance Committee to review of second stage integration.
It is the Committees oversee the establishment of a complete compliance system view that integration activities are largely complete.
to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all US Federal and State requirements for operating a sales and marketing The review of risk and risk management is embedded team in the US by the time it commences product sales in throughout the Group.
The Group has a Risk Committee, October 2010. chaired by the CFO and including staff from all sections of the business, which reviews the risks throughout the business BTG actively monitors its royalty revenue streams and from and to identify and evaluate risks which may impact on the time to time audits its major licensees to ensure compliance Groups strategic and business objectives.
The risk team with the terms of agreements.
BTG also has a system for maintains a risk management plan that identies the key risks.
supporting the protection and maintenance of patents.
The plan is designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they occur, how such risks may The Senior Leadership Team meets formally at least once be mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals each month to review business performance measured responsible for managing the risks.
The Committee continues against annual budgets and longer-term plans and an to monitor all areas of risk and the progress of actions agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each designed to mitigate such risks: it reports its findings twicebusiness unit.
Forecasts are reset quarterly on the basis yearly through the Audit Committee to the Board.
For of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
Reporting details of principal risks and uncertainties that may affect to the Board is based on these monthly and quarterly the business, see pages 24 to 27 in the Business Review.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of development The Board has reviewed the risk management process and progress with the portfolio.
confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that BTG continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal Approval procedures control issued by the Code.
The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control appropriate level of input by internal and external expert and risk management framework are described below.
The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each level and requires Structure and reporting decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational The day-to-day operation of the Group is carried out impact for BTG to be approved by the Board.
The process under the overall guidance of the Senior Leadership Team.
has been under review during the year and a revised The Group has well-dened management structures and group-wide structure has been put in place.
processes for acquisition, assessment and evaluation of technology opportunities, and development and execution Corporate policies, values and compliance of commercialisation strategies.
A significant change in the A statement of corporate values and a guidance booklet structure is currently taking place as a sales and marketing on ethics, business practices and compliance are distributed operation is being set up in the US in order to enable the throughout the Group.
Relevant employees meet regularly selling of healthcare products to US hospitals and other to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and similar organisations.
financial environments in which BTG operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best practice.
The guidance booklet is currently being updated to reect changes in the nature of BTGs business and the continuing evolution of the rules and regulations under which the Group operates.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 42 42 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the Within Oxford University and Isis Innovations Limited, Giles effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
The controls Kerrs responsibilities with respect to the relevant agreements described above operate and are embedded within the dayare limited to financial reporting and control together with to-day business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, managing and applying University revenue recognition evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
He will not participate in any other discussions A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year concerning the relevant agreements.
and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this the Code.
See note 36 for additional related party disclosures.
As required by the Code, the Board has considered whether it would be appropriate to have a dedicated internal audit Market abuse directive function within the Group and has concluded that, taking As required by the Market Abuse Directive, the Company into account its relatively small size, and the way the business has set up a Disclosure Committee, comprising the CEO, is run, this is not appropriate at present.
This decision will be CFO and one other senior member of staff.
The Committee reviewed on an annual basis.
During the year a new process meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Committee was set up for internal review.
Finance divisions of each reviews all significant items of business within the Group ofce are responsible for monitoring and reviewing controls on a regular basis and maintains an Insider List recording on a regular basis.
Each ofce is to be visited by Head Ofce both those employed within the Group and at external finance staff to ensure compliance.
The Groups ofces in the advisers who may have access to inside information.
UK and US were visited by Head Ofce finance staff during Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from the year: the Australian ofce will be visited in the coming the List they are notied accordingly and advised of their year in addition to repeat visits to other sites.
this work are reported to the Board, via the Audit Committee, twice a year.
Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM Related parties and conicts of interest BTG endeavours to maintain good communications BTG maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party with shareholders through formal and informal dialogue.
transactions and potential conicts of interest are identied, The Company formally reports its results twice a year with disclosed and managed.
These procedures include: directors full year results announced in May and interim results in declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the November.
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these Board and annual self-certication by directors.
Where it is results to the Companys institutional shareholders, analysts identied that a related party relationship exists, the Board and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on agrees specic additional procedures to ensure the effective the internet for the information of shareholders and are management of potential conicts of interest.
available thereafter as an archive on the Companys website.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of BTG plc, is also In addition the Company prepares Interim Management the Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director Statements that are released to the UK Listing Authority and of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary are available on the Companys website.
BTG plcs wholly owned subsidiaries BTG International Ltd and British Technology Group InterThe CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors Corporate Licensing Ltd have pre-existing licence agreements with support from the Investor Relations department.
The with Oxford University and Isis Innovations under which Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other directors they are obliged to pay royalties on amounts received from are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
No requests have been received although the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has had dialogue with investors As a non-executive director of BTG plc, Giles Kerr will on remuneration issues during the year.
As part of his role not participate in any discussions concerning the relevant as the Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available agreements either within the Board meetings of BTG plc to shareholders when contact with the executive directors or in any other discussions or meetings with the executives or the Chairman may not be appropriate.
of BTG plc and its subsidiaries.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 43 43 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations Audit Committee and auditor department at each Board meeting giving information BTG has an established Audit Committee with the principal of the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the responsibilities of overseeing financial reporting and internal Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly control matters and maintaining appropriate relations with results announcements, feedback from external advisers the Companys auditor.
and brokers is provided to the Board, detailing the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
This enables the Board A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns 44 and 45. of major shareholders.
Appointments to the Board The Annual Report contains a full business review and the BTG has a Nomination Committee whose responsibilities Interim Report, which is available on the Companys website, include reviewing the size and composition of the Board: gives an update at the half year.
Extensive information, making recommendations to the Board on the appointment including annual and interim reports, interim management of executive and non-executive directors, and their restatements and all press releases, is published on the Groups appointment following retirement by rotation: and for ensuring website www.
com for access by all shareholders.
that succession planning is in place.
The Committee also In addition, through the website, individuals can register advises the Board on matters generally relating to Board to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements appointments and meets as required, but at least twice a year.
on the day they are issued.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on page 46.
The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss the Groups business with the directors Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code and other senior management.
A full business presentation The Board considers that the Company complied in full with is given and there is an open question and answer session the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code during which shareholders may ask questions both about throughout the year ended 31 March 2010.
Details of directors the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
remuneration, as required by the Combined Code and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 10.30am on 13 July Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, is set out 2010, at the ofces of Stephenson Harwood, One St Pauls in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 58.
Churchyard, London EC4M 8SH, is included with this report.
The Notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at least The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review 20 working days before the meeting.
The Directors Report whether this corporate governance statement reects the on pages 36 and 37 summarises the main resolutions Companys compliance with nine of the Codes provisions and the letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to details of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
Having conducted such a review Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of may elect to vote electronically or using the proxy form compliance does not reect such compliance.
The Company enclosed with this report.
In order to vote electronically, confirms that no such report has been made.
members may log on direct to Capita Registrars website www.
com and follow the instructions John Brown on the screen.
Crest members may send their proxy votes Chairman to the Companys Registrars electronically.
20 May 2010 At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in respect of each resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published on BTGs website.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
