7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 44 44 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Audit Committee report For the year ended 31 March 2010 The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed directors, membership of the Committee is detailed in the monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements.
The Chairman, Chief Executive officer CEO As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and and Chief Financial officer CFO may attend meetings and auditors report with management and the external auditor provide input as required.
The Company Secretary or his and considers significant judgements and issues contained deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Details of in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with attendance at meetings is shown in the table on page 38. the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they present a balanced assessment of the Companys financial Members Committee member since position and prospects.
Following this discussion the Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the results of the Colin Blakemore 16 July 2008 Committees review to the full Board.
The external auditor William Jenkins 27 July 2005 generally meets with the non-executive directors at the time when the half and full-year results are discussed.
Giles Kerr, as Director of Finance at Oxford University, is considered by the Board to have the necessary significant The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control chairman of the Committee.
He receives additional remuneration and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as set The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the out on page 53.
Other members bring detailed knowledge detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board of scientific research and clinical trial operations to the on its findings twice a year.
The Committee has reviewed the deliberations of the Committee.
For further information see system of material controls including financial, operational, the directors biographies on pages 34 and 35. compliance and risk for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
Such a system The terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of on the Groups website or from the Company on request.
failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide These terms of reference reect the recommendations of reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Smith Guidance.
A summary of matters considered at the Committee since The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below: of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of Review of the Groups half year results to 30 September shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while 2009 and full year results to 31 March 2010 ensuring that risks are properly identied and managed.
Review of the reports from the external auditor on the The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they interim and full year results to 31 March 2010 enable the proper management of business risks without Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they estimate for the full-year audit inhibit proper running of the business.
Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Assessment of the going concern basis material controls of the Group, which are embedded within Review of risk management systems, internal controls the day-to-day business.
There is an ongoing process and fraud procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks Review of the disclosures relating to material risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place in the Business Review throughout the year and up to the date of approval of Assessment of the need for an internal audit function the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the Review of monitoring process for equity portfolio and directors in accordance with the Code.
its valuation Considering report of internal review work covering a review of controls at Group sites in the UK and US Completed effectiveness review.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 45 45 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Group has a Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements including staff from all sections of the business, which reviews under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns the risks throughout the business and identies and evaluates about possible improprieties in matters of financial risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and business performance or other matters are operating effectively and objectives.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk management that appropriate follow up action takes place.
The current plan that identies the key risks.
The plan is designed to arrangements are under review and a revised process will assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact be launched shortly.
should they occur, how such risks may be mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for The Audit Committee reviews the overall performance of managing the risks.
The Committee continues to monitor all the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement areas of risk and the progress of actions designed to mitigate and remuneration.
The Committee discussed the auditors such risks: it reports its findings twice-yearly through the Audit proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit Committee to the Board.
The Committee received the latest of the results for the year to 31 March 2010 and also reviews report at its May 2010 meeting and was satisfied with the non-audit work carried out by the Companys auditor, actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identied.
KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
KPMG may not The Group has also set up a Compliance Committee to be appointed to undertake any non-audit work without oversee the establishment of a complete compliance system the approval of the Committee where the cost of the work to ensure BTG fulls Federal and State requirements for is expected to exceed 50,000. operating a sales and marketing team in the US by the time it commences product sales in October 2010.
The results The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM will be reported to the Audit Committee as part of the twiceto ensure its independence.
The Audit Committee regularly yearly risk management report.
discusses the independence of the auditor and whether there should be a need to rotate audit rms.
Given the relative The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls size of BTG to that of KPMG and that the lead audit partner and risk management systems.
It also reviews the scope is changed on a regular basis at least every five years, and results of the external audit and the independence and the Audit Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is objectivity of the auditor.
The Company currently has no independent in its reporting on the audit of the Group and dedicated internal audit function and the Committee reviews rotation of rms is not necessary.
A new lead audit partner on an annual basis as to whether this is still appropriate.
took over the audit as from the year ended 31 March 2009.
The Committee considered the process for internal audit At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets with compliance as part of its review.
The process for compliance the auditor in the absence of the executive directors and is included as part of the responsibilities of each local finance management.
This process was strengthened during the year whereby each ofce is to be visited by Head Ofce finance As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried staff to review the work of local internal audit compliance and out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results to carry out further testing.
During the year the Groups ofces and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
in the UK and US were visited by Head Ofce finance and the Australian ofce will be visited in the coming year, in addition Giles Kerr to repeat visits to other sites.
Chairman of the Audit Committee The first report on this new process was reported to the Board via the Audit Committee in May: reports will be made twice yearly in future in May and November.
The Committee noted that the internal audit work did not identify any material weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals to enhance control procedures.
The Committee considered that, bearing in mind the degree of local and central control and review, that a dedicated full time internal auditor was not required at this time.
