7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:40 Page 46 46 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Nomination Committee report For the year ended 31 March 2010 The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive Following their appointment the Committee ensures that all directors, membership of the Committee is detailed in the new directors receive a full induction programme.
As part of the table below.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as induction process the new director is given a full brieng on the secretary to the Committee.
Details of attendance at meetings financial history of the Group and details of operating plans, is shown in the table on page 38. budgets and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for the director to meet with the heads of the various Members Committee member since business units for an in-depth brieng on the areas in which John Brown Committee Chairman 17 March 2008 the Group is involved.
A brieng on corporate governance and Peter Chambr 22 May 2007 directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 to attend external courses is also available.
James OShea 13 May 2009 The Committee reviews succession plans and plans The Committee terms of reference can be found on the for emergency cover of key managers and directors on Groups website or from the Company on request.
The Committee has continued its review of Board As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried membership to ensure it has the right balance of experience out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and expertise as the business develops and it is Company and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
policy to refresh Board membership on a regular basis.
John Brown The Committee has just commenced a fresh review of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee constitution and skills of the Board in order to ensure that it continues to have the correct skill sets as the Group continues to develop.
The Committee employs external consultants to assist it in making appointments.
Prior to any appointments being made, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
It interviews candidates and produces a shortlist for a subsequent interview by all Board members.
