| Governance Directors report Audit Committee report The Audit Committee composition and focus fell into two distinct halves in 2010.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual Committee composition and half-year financial statements remains with the Board.
The current Audit Committee members are Liz Airey Chairman, The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys Matteo Dante Perruccio and Lorraine Trainer, all of whom are website and the Chairman of the Committee will be available at the independent non-executive Directors and who were appointed prior Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of to Listing.
All the members of the Committee are considered as being the Committee.
appropriately experienced and qualified to fulfil their duties.
Liz Airey is the Chairman and is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings of the committee The work cycle agreed by the Committee requires it to meet at least Year in review four times a year to carry out its routine work and it meets otherwise as necessary.
While only members of the Committee have the right The Audit Committees composition and focus fell into two distinct to attend Committee meetings, representatives of the Groups halves in 2010.
During the early part of the year, the Committee external and internal auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, the concentrated on overseeing the conversion of the Groups accounts Compliance Director, the Head of Operational Risk and other onto IFRS and the preparation of the three year track record for relevant members of the senior management team as appropriate, inclusion in the Listing prospectus.
The nature of the Listing required are usually required to attend all routine meetings and unless a substantial proportion of the control, compliance and risk oversight, otherwise specifically determined ad hoc meetings of the Committee.
which would normally fall to the Committee, to be undertaken at the In addition, the Chief Executive, the Chief Investment Officer and main Board level due to the responsibilities of all Directors for the the Chief Operating Officer are invited to attend all or relevant parts contents of the Listing prospectus.
of the meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board has a standing invitation to attend all Committee meetings.
Following the Listing, the new Chairman and other Committee members initially focused on ensuring the external reporting As detailed within the Corporate Governance report, the processes for the Group were properly followed in line with its new Committee held three meetings since Listing.
The Committee status, alongside increasing their knowledge and understanding of also met with the internal and external auditors without Jupiter the business and its control environment.
The Committee has also management present.
agreed a formal calendar of items for consideration at each meeting and within the annual audit cycle to ensure that its work is in line with Internal audit function the Code and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee has not yet completed its first cycle of work and has, therefore, concluded that Ernst & Young LLP were appointed to provide the Groups internal it will undertake its first formal annual effectiveness review during audit function in the second half of 2008.
However, an internal evaluation of the Committee was plan runs until December 2011, in advance of which date the undertaken in December 2010 and its members were satisfied Committee will consider the continued appointment of Ernst that the Committee was operating effectively.
& Young LLP as the Groups internal auditors.
The internal auditors report directly to the Audit Committee and, Role in addition to submitting status papers for each Committee meeting, provide the Committee members with copies of any individual, The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its department specific reports completed between meetings.
The responsibilities by: Committee works with the internal auditors to help ensure that their work is co-ordinated with that of the external auditors.
overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes: reviewing the critical accounting policies, financial reporting The Committee continues to review the effectiveness of the internal issues and judgements, including going concern, made in relation audit function, but is currently of the view that outsourcing this to a to the annual and half-year financial statements, together with the specialist independent provider is appropriate and helps to ensure reports on them from the external auditors: that the function is adequately resourced.
reviewing Interim Management Statements and trading updates prior to their release: External auditors receiving reports from management on the effectiveness The Groups external auditors are  LLP.
of the internal control, regulatory compliance and risk During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the terms management environments: of engagement and the proposed audit fee for the 2010 audit.
regularly reviewing the external and internal audit work plans, their findings, their effectiveness and considering The Committee has reviewed the relationship with the external their re-appointment: auditors.
The requirement for listed companies is that no individual overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and should act as lead audit partner for more than five years.
Following performance of the Groups internal and external auditors: and the Listing, the Committee resolved that the lead audit partner reviewing the Groups internal capital adequacy who had at that time been in that role for more than five years assessment process.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 45 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report should be replaced and a new partner was appointed to this role with The Committee has recommended to the Board that  LLP continue to act as the Groups auditors effect from 19 October 2010.
In line with its annual work cycle, a full review of the effectiveness of the external auditors will be carried out and that a resolution be proposed to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting that they be re-appointed as the Groups external by the Committee following the 2010 audit.
Following Listing, the Committee has developed and implemented a policy to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
This policy sets out certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Committee, restrictions on the employment of the external auditors former employees, partner rotation and procedures for the approval of non-audit services Liz Airey provided by the auditors.
The Committee now receives a regular Chairman of the Audit Committee report setting out the non-audit services provided by the external 8 April 2011 auditors during the year and the fees charged.
Due to the nature of the work on Listing, non-audit fees were unusually high in 2010, but the Committee was satisfied that this work was best performed by the external auditors, was non-recurring in nature and did not prejudice their independence during the year.
An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services provided by  LLP is provided within the administrative expenses note of the Financial statements.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 46 Jupiter Fund Management plc
