| Governance Directors report Corporate governance report The Board is responsible for the proper management of the Company and maintains high standards of corporate governance.
Jupiters shares were admitted to trading on the London between the two roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for Stock Exchange on 21 June 2010.
As a result, this is the Boards leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, first governance report to shareholders since Listing and it whereas the Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day describes the corporate governance framework of the Company management of the Companys business.
and how it has developed during the year.
Composition Since Listing, the Corporate Governance rules that applied to The Board is made up of nine members, comprising the Chairman, the Company are contained in The Combined Code on Corporate three executive Directors and five other non-executive Directors.
Governance the Code, as adopted by the Financial Reporting The biographical details of the Directors appear in the Directors Council in 2008 www.
The Financial Services profiles section.
Three members of the Board Liz Airey, Lorraine Authoritys listing rules require the Company to set out how it Trainer and Matteo Dante Perruccio have been identified as has applied the main principles of the Code and explain any nonindependent, as was the Chairman on appointment, for the compliance.
In May 2010, the FRC published a new code, The UK purposes of the Code.
Corporate Governance Code, which will replace the Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Richard I. Morris, Jr. and Michael Wilson, each of whom was nominated by TA Associates, Inc. which held 22.3 per cent.
of the This report, including the reports from the Audit Committee, issued share capital of the Company as at 8 April 2011 are the only Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, describes non-executive Directors who do not meet the criteria of independence how the Board has applied the principles of the Code during the year.
Liz Airey and Lorraine Trainer were appointed to the Board as non-executive Directors on 17 May 2010 and Liz Airey was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Jonathan Carey, Statement of compliance Adrian Creedy, Anthony Nutt and Chris Parkin stepped down from the Board on 1 June 2010.
Since Listing, the Company has applied the main principles and complied with the provisions of the Code, with the The Board considers each of its non-executive Directors to be following exceptions: independent in both character and judgement and no one individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Code recommends that at least half the members of the The non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help Board excluding the Chairman should comprise independent develop proposals on strategy, and bring strong independent non-executive Directors.
The Board currently consists of nine judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
members, being three executive and six non-executive Directors, three of whom excluding the Chairman are regarded as Beneath the Board there is in place a clear and appropriate independent.
The Board do not consider Richard I. Morris, Jr. apportionment of responsibilities amongst the executive Directors and Michael Wilson to be independent under A.
and senior managers so that the business can be effectively managed The Code recommends that non-executive Directors should be and monitored.
However, Richard I. Morris, Jr. and Michael Wilson, who were both nominated by TA Associates, Inc. have been appointed as non-executive Directors of the Operation of the Board and Company for indefinite periods, subject to three months notice of meeting attendance termination by either the Company or the non-executive Director.
The Code recommends that the Chairman of the Board should The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad not be the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Jamie hoc basis as necessary.
A rolling 12-month programme of items for Dundas chairs the Remuneration Committee in addition to being discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all key issues and Chairman of the Board.
It is the Companys intention that statutory matters are considered during the year, which includes Lorraine Trainer will replace Jamie Dundas as Chairman approving the Groups strategy and annual budget.
The Board met of the Remuneration Committee in May 2011, following the 16 times during the year, four times since Listing.
To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors The Board to discharge their responsibilities, a comprehensive set of papers is provided for Board and Committee meetings.
These include regular Role business progress reports, budgets, financial statements and The Board is responsible for the leadership and success of the shareholder information.
In addition, non-executive Directors meet Company.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework with senior management on a regular basis.
The Company Secretary of effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
manages the provision of information to the Board, in consultation The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting the overall strategy with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
and long-term direction of the Company.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities their duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 34 Jupiter Fund Management plc
