| Governance Directors report Other governance and statutory information Court for confirmation of the cancellation of the capital redemption Company Number 6150195 reserve at the same time as it applies for confirmation of cancellation of its share premium account.
If the Court sanctions the cancellation Company name of the share premium account and the capital redemption reserve, such cancellations will take effect on registration of the Order of the The Company changed its name from Jupiter Investment Court with the Registrar of Companies.
The purpose of these Management Holdings Limited to Jupiter Fund Management plc on cancellations is to create a special reserve, which would constitute 1 June 2010 and re-registered as a public company on the same date distributable profits and which could, subject to the terms of the in preparation for Listing.
undertaking to be given to the Court to protect creditors, be used by the Company at its discretion for general corporate purposes.
Share capital and voting rights The Companys ordinary shares carry the right to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
In addition, the holders of As at 8 April 2011 there were 457,699,916 fully paid ordinary shares ordinary shares have the right to receive dividends according of 2p each in issue and listed on the Official List maintained by the to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the Company FSA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority.
and to the return of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
The share capital of the Company changed during the year under review.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Prior to Listing, the Companys issued share capital comprised The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary 1,250,000 A ordinary shares of 1.00 each, 3,750,000 B ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set shares of 1.00 each, 31,000,000 non-cumulative non-redeemable out in detail in the Companys Articles of Association.
preference shares of 1.00 each Tier 1 preference shares and 24,000,000 10 per cent.
cumulative redeemable preference shares The Articles of Association of the Company provide that Directors of 1.00 each Tier 2 preference shares.
may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds office only until the In preparation for Listing, approval from shareholders was obtained on next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken into account in 25 May 2010 for the share capital reorganisation and the adoption of determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation.
Each A ordinary share and B ordinary share was sub-divided into 50 shares of 2p each and re-designated as At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, any Directors an ordinary share.
Each Tier 1 preference share and each Tier 2 appointed by the Board since the last Annual General Meeting shall preference share was sub-divided into 50 shares of 2p each and such retire.
In addition, one-third of the remaining Directors or, if their number of the resulting shares, as was produced by multiplying each number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but shareholders holding of Tier 1 preference shares and Tier 2 not exceeding one-third, shall retire from office by rotation.
If there are preference shares by the fraction 1.3350733 the nominal value of fewer than three Directors, one Director shall retire from office.
such shares plus accrued dividends and catch-up amount and dividing it by 1.65 the offer price per ordinary share at Listing, was At each Annual General Meeting, any Director who was last elected converted into ordinary shares.
The remaining sub-divided shares or last re-elected at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the including any fractions resulting from the above calculation were third calendar year before the current year shall retire by rotation.
If the number of Directors so retiring is less than the minimum number of Directors who are required to retire by rotation, additional Directors 2,705,497,660 deferred shares resulted from the conversions of Tier 1 up to that number shall retire namely, those Directors who are and Tier 2 preference shares into ordinary shares described above subject to rotation but who wish to retire and not offer themselves and these were repurchased on 22 December 2010 for the sum of 1 for re-election and those Directors who have been Directors longest in aggregate and subsequently cancelled.
since their appointment or last re-appointment and, as between those who have been in office an equal length of time, those to retire shall, As a result of the share capital reorganisation, there were 294,502,340 unless they otherwise agree, be determined by lot.
A further 133,500,607 ordinary shares were issued on 21 June 2010 to new subscribers in connection with Listing.
Any Director other than the Chairman and any Director holding In addition, 29,515,151 ordinary shares were issued to Jupiter executive office who would not otherwise be required to retire shall Acquisitions Sarl and 181,818 ordinary shares were issued to Richard also retire if he has been with the Company for a continuous period I. Morris, Jr. on 21 June 2010 as consideration for the acquisition of of nine years or more at the date of the meeting and shall not be Preferred Finance Securities in Jupiter Fund Management Group taken into account when deciding which and how many Directors Limited, the Companys subsidiary.
should retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
On 25 May 2010, the Company passed a resolution authorising the In addition to any powers under the Companies Act 2006 to remove cancellation of the whole of the amount standing to the credit of its directors from office, the Company may, by-passing an ordinary share premium account following the issue of ordinary shares in resolution, remove any Director from the Board before the expiration connection with Listing.
At the Annual General Meeting, a resolution of his or her period in office.
The Company may, subject to the will be proposed seeking shareholders approval of the cancellation of Articles of Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another the whole of the amount standing to the credit of the capital person who is willing to be a Director in his or her place.
redemption reserve which arose as a result of the repurchase by the Company and cancellation on 22 December 2010 of the 2,705,497,660 deferred shares referred to above.
If the resolution is passed at the Annual General Meeting, the Company will apply to the Annual Report & Accounts 2010 51 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report Substantial share interests TA relationship agreement As at 29 March 2011, the Company had received notifications from the On 2 June 2010, the Company and TA Associates, Inc. entered into following substantial shareholders 3 per cent.
or more of their interests an agreement which regulates the ongoing relationship between the in the ordinary share capital of the Company, in accordance with the Company and TA Associates, Inc. the Relationship Agreement.
Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority: TA Associates, Inc. and the Company have agreed, inter alia, that TA Associates, Inc. is entitled to nominate for appointment, i two non-executive Directors to the Board whilst it and or any of its Percentage of associates owns, on an aggregated basis, 15 per cent.
or more of the Number of issued voting ordinary shares in issue from time to time, and ii one non-executive Name shares held share capital Director to the Board whilst it and or any of its associates owns, on TA Funds 102,079,760 22.30% an aggregated basis, 10 per cent.
or more of the ordinary shares in BlackRock 26,542,342 5.80% issue from time to time.
Anthony Nutt 20,505,710 4.48% In addition, TA Associates, Inc. is entitled to nominate one such Lansdowne Partners 14,700,384 3.21% non-executive Director to each of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee during the period from 2 June 2010 Edward Bonham Carter 14,555,103 3.18% to the earlier of i the date on which TA Associates, Inc. and or Philip Gibbs 14,304,560 3.13% any of its associates ceases to own, on an aggregated basis, 10 per cent.
or more of the ordinary shares in issue from time Indirect holdings.
to time, and ii 24 months after Listing.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting The Relationship Agreement will terminate once the aggregate to 3 per cent.
or more in the share capital of the Company.
interest of TA Associates, Inc. and its associates in ordinary shares falls below 10 per cent.
Directors interests Employees The interests of the Directors in shares of the Company at 31 December 2010 are set out in the Remuneration report.
Details of the Companys employment practices can be found in the corporate responsibility section of the Business review.
CREST Dividends The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 4.7p per ordinary share.
This payment is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and, if approved, will be paid on 24 May Restrictions on transfer of shares 2011 to shareholders on the register at 15 April 2011.
At the time of Listing certain employees undertook, through lock-in agreements, not to sell or transfer any ordinary shares to which they Authority to issue shares were beneficially entitled during the 12 months following Listing.
These undertakings expire on 21 June 2011.
In addition, certain A special resolution was passed on 25 May 2010 authorising the employees beneficially owning approximately 35 per cent.
of the Directors to allot new ordinary shares.
The Directors intend to seek Companys issued ordinary shares agreed to restrictions on the sale shareholders approval for the renewal of this authority at the Annual and transfer of their ordinary shares during the three years following General Meeting to allot and grant rights to subscribe for ordinary Listing.
The overall effect of these arrangements is that: shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664, representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued following the first anniversary of Listing, approximately 15 per share capital as at 8 April 2011, of which an aggregate nominal value cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue will be capable of being sold of 3,051,332 representing approximately one-third of the by such persons, Companys issued share capital may only be allotted pursuant to a following the second anniversary of Listing, approximately a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
If approved, this authority will expire at further 10 per cent.
of the ordinary shares in issue will be capable the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012 or, if earlier, on of being sold, and 29 June 2012. following the third anniversary of Listing, approximately a further 10 per cent.
of the ordinary shares will be capable Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, a resolution will of being sold.
also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to empower the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the existing shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in Companys ordinary shares or any other restrictions on the transfer 2012 or, if earlier, until 29 June 2012.
This authority will be limited to of securities in the Company.
the allotment of equity securities for cash, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 457,699, being 5 per cent.
of the share capital issued at Other relevant disclosure requirements of section 992 of the Act are the date of this report.
The Directors currently have no intention to included in the Corporate governance report and the Remuneration issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to the Companys report and the notes to the financial statements.
employee share schemes and any share dividend alternatives.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 52 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Governance Directors report Authority to purchase shares Change of control In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company The Company does not have agreements with any Director that to purchase its own ordinary shares and a special resolution will be would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting proposed at the Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors from a change of control following a takeover bid, except that limited authority, granted by a special resolution on 25 May 2010, provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority will awards granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
be limited to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital at Creditor payment policy the date of this report and sets out the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any such purchase by the Company.
It is the Groups payment policy to obtain the best terms for all business and, therefore, there is no consistent policy as to the terms Independent auditors and audit information used.
In general, the Group agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these  LLP are willing to continue as the Groups terms.
Unit trust creditors are settled within four working days.
auditors and resolutions concerning their re-appointment and the The average number of trade creditor days for the Group was 27.4 determination of their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual 2009: 25.9.
Directors indemnities In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors The Companys articles of association permit the provision of Report confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with its Articles of relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Act of Association, the Company granted a deed of indemnity to each which the Groups auditors are unaware and each Director has taken Director on 1 June 2010, pursuant to which each Director was granted all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
These themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish arrangements were in place throughout the year.
In addition, during that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
the year the Company has maintained liability insurance for Directors.
Going concern Charitable and other donations The business review discusses the Groups business activities, The Group made contributions of 64,387 during the year 2009: together with the factors likely to affect its future development, 116,775 for charitable purposes.
No political donations were made performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the financial position, in 2010 2009: nil.
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
The financial risk management note of the financial statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing capital and its Post-balance sheet events financial risk management objectives, together with details of financial instruments and exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Details of the post-balance sheet events are included in the note to the financial statements Post-balance sheet events.
The Group has access to the financial resources required to run the business efficiently and a strong gross cash position.
The Groups Annual general meeting forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous sensitivity analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate within its The Annual General Meeting will take place on 18 May 2011. available resources.
All shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General As a consequence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Meeting will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational before the meeting and the details of the resolutions to be proposed existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to will be detailed in that Notice.
This document will be available on the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual Companys website at www.
For and on behalf of the Board Adrian Creedy Company Secretary 8 April 2011 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53 Jupiter Fund Management plc
