| Business review Directors report Corporate responsibility report We have a long-standing Marketplace: As a leading asset manager, we believe it is important to integrate commitment environmental and social issues into our corporate governance and voting 1 policy through a programme of constructive dialogue and engagement across to the field of our investment portfolios.
sustainable and green investment, Number of companies engaged with on having run our environmental, social and governance issues.
168 flagship fund, the Jupiter Ecology Fund Workplace: for over 20 years.
As a people focused business whose success is directly related to the quality and competence of our employees, we believe it is important that we are an 2 organisation that people want to work for and want to be associated with.
We have a high level of employee share ownership.
We believe that corporate responsibility and commercial success are compatible and we are committed, wherever practicable, to implement environmental good practice throughout our business activities.
Percentage of employees taking % At Jupiter, we aim to act in the best interests up the 2010 Sharesave scheme.
76 of all our stakeholders by engaging with the companies that we invest in, and by exercising our voting rights with care.
Not only is this commensurate with good market practice, it goes hand in hand with ensuring Environment: the responsible investment of our clients As a major UK corporate we believe it is important that we understand our assets.
Equally, we ask companies to impact on the wider environment and look to reduce this wherever possible.
3 present us with their plans for maintaining To help us assess this we have commissioned a 2011 study of our social and environmental sustainability carbon footprint.
As appropriate, we will engage and vote on issues affecting the long-term value of a company in which we are invested.
We will review this area Issues may include, but are not limited following the results of the study.
2011 study to, business strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital raisings and financing operations, internal controls, risk management, board succession, shareholder rights, corporate and Community: social responsibility and remuneration.
We believe in a bottom-up approach to charitable giving with our strategy for contributions building on this belief.
Our giving is driven by individual 4 employee choice with all employees eligible to join a matched giving payroll Governance structure scheme.
The majority of our giving comes through matching employee The Board is responsible for corporate contributions to this scheme, which empowers employees to direct donations governance and corporate responsibility to their nominated charities and ensures that it is spread across a wide range within the Group.
Percentage of employees taking % part in the Give As You Earn Scheme.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Business review Directors report investors to integrate climate change considerations into their 1 Marketplace decision-making process and to support investment flows into a low-carbon economy.
Transparency, accountability and sustainability are essential to the success of our business and have become increasingly prominent in Climate communiqus Bali 2007: Poznan 2008: Copenhagen the light of market events in recent years.
Treating customers fairly is 2009, Cancun 2010 Jupiter has been a signatory of all four an important principle for our business.
In providing solutions to address communiqus, which call on world leaders to agree an our clients investment needs, we seek to communicate clearly the ambitious, robust and equitable global deal on climate change services we offer and to be transparent in our relationships with them.
that responds credibly to the scale and urgency of the crisis facing the world today.
Our customers We are committed to dealing with investors in our products and our We also participate in corporate or multi-stakeholder initiatives discretionary clients honestly, openly, competently and with integrity.
and networks to bring about more sustainable government policies All employees are required to comply with our Treating Customers and corporate practice.
On a related note, we have recently Fairly policy, which is written in accordance with FSA requirements.
become a funding partner for a new research programme run by This includes delivering appropriate products, marketing them the Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Leadership the appropriately, servicing and administering them professionally Cambridge Ecosystems and Natural Capital Programme.
The and having adequate management information in place to identify ambition for the programme is to work with a number of international customer concerns and any administrative shortcomings.
businesses to identify and address the risks and opportunities faced by business, society and investors from the depletion of the worlds Stewardship natural resources.
As appropriate, we will engage and vote on issues affecting the long-term value of a company in which we have invested.
Issues may ESG research into the corporate responsibility performance of include, but are not limited to, business strategy, acquisitions and companies is incorporated in our investment process and we disposals, capital raisings and financing operations, internal controls, engage with companies where their ESG practices fall short of risk management, board succession, shareholder rights, corporate acceptable standards.
and social responsibility and remuneration.
During 2010, we voted at 2,140 meetings and engaged with a total We support the aims and principles of the UK Stewardship Code and of 168 companies on sustainability and governance issues.
Full an explanation of our compliance with the Code is published on our details of our voting and engagement activity can be found in our website at www.
co. uk about us Voting and Engagement reports which are available on our website at www.
co. uk about us As a leading asset management group, we recognise our responsibility in ensuring that we engage with companies to assess not only the financial risks but also the environmental, social and 2 Workplace governance risks that can impact long-term value.
Details of our As a people business, we value our employees and aim to create policy in this area can be found in the Corporate Governance and a positive environment in which employees can work and develop Voting Policy section of our website at www.
Our culture gives employees the opportunity to perform about us and develop as individuals within a structured control and governance framework.
We look to reward outperformance and to encourage We are also a signatory to the United Nations Principles for good performers to remain with the business and provide a long term Responsible Investment which serves to reinforce our commitment service to customers.
Our culture has proved attractive in recruiting to integrating ESG issues into our investment decision making.
This is reflected in the number of employees We participate in a number of joint investor networks and initiatives who have been with Jupiter for a significant part of their career.
to promote sustainable investment and good governance, including the following: Remuneration Carbon disclosure project We are a founding signatory of We offer employees a competitive salary and benefits package, CDP, which was launched in 2000 and conducted its first survey and this has been an important factor in ensuring low levels of staff in 2003.
CDP conducts a survey which charts how the worlds turnover in recent years.
All employees are eligible for participation largest companies are addressing the challenges of climate in the bonus scheme.
Bonus payments are discretionary and based change.
The survey rates companies on the depth and scope on employee performance and contribution to Jupiter, including risk of their disclosures and the quality of their reporting.
For most senior employees, a proportion of their bonus is deferred for a three year period.
CDP water disclosure project We are a founding signatory to this new project that aims to help institutional investors better All executives and the majority of employees have an interest understand the business risks and opportunities associated with in Jupiter shares.
These holdings give employees a long term water scarcity and other water-related issues by increasing the interest in Jupiters business and align their interests with clients.
availability of high quality information on this issue.
The CDP Water Disclosure 2010 information request was sent to more Diversity than 300 of the worlds largest companies in sectors that are We have an equal opportunities policy and it is the Companys policy water intensive or are particularly exposed to water-related risk.
to treat all job applicants and employees in the same way.
We aim to support staff with families through enhanced maternity pay and Investor statement on a global agreement on climate change childcare vouchers.
We also offer the option of additional unpaid This statement was launched by the Institutional Investors Group time off.
on Climate Change in 2006 and we became a signatory in 2008.
The statement, supported by investment institutions, concludes Personal development training that clear, credible long-term policy signals are critical for We place a high value on personal development and we are keen to encourage the ongoing training and development of our employees.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 28 Jupiter Fund Management plc | Business review Directors report All employees take part in our six-monthly appraisal process, During 2010, we made a number of key improvements to help during which training and development needs are identified.
These include the following: Where regulatory and legal requirements stipulate specific training, we provide tailored programmes to meet these requirements and our London office has undergone a refurbishment programme, employees are regularly assessed to ensure they have maintained which has included the replacement of light fittings and light tubes their Continued Professional Development and have demonstrated with more energy efficient products: competence for the role they perform.
energy efficient hand dryers have been installed in all toilet areas: Jupiter owned air conditioning units have been replaced with In this way, we are able to equip employees with the necessary more modern, energy efficient units: tools to allow them to maximise their performance in their role we now participate in our Landlords recycling scheme which and assist them in the achievement of objectives.
We also support not only reduces our costs, but also reduces associated transport impacts as the number of journeys involved in collections has employees who wish to gain a relevant professional qualification, both through on the job training and through sponsorship of been streamlined: office furniture such as desks, chairs and filing cabinets external courses.
are recycled: and we have seen an increase in the number of employees cycling Health and safety to work, partly as result of improved shower facilities and the The Board has the responsibility to ensure that all reasonable continued participation in the cycle to work scheme.
precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions which are safe and healthy, and that comply with all statutory We have recently commissioned an updated study of our requirements and all legally binding codes of practice.
Our Health and Safety policy aims to prevent accidents and to maintain the health of employees whilst at work.
The prime 4 Community responsibility for a safe and healthy place to work rests with the Company, however, each employee also has a personal responsibility Charitable giving in this respect.
Our charitable giving is focused on employees being able to direct giving rather than being driven by corporate level decisions.
The Company, as a responsible employer, will endeavour to meet any We operate a company wide matched giving scheme, for which legal obligation arising under the Health and Safety legislation.
all UK employees are eligible.
We empower our employees to make direct contributions to their nominated charities.
This has the additional benefit of ensuring our giving is spread across a wide 3 Environment range of charitable activities and organisations.
We believe that environmental responsibility and commercial success are compatible and we are committed, wherever practicable, Our matched giving programme operates through both a GAYE to environmental good practice throughout our business activities.
scheme and by matching funds raised through participating in fund raising events for charity.
In 2010, donations totalled 64k In common with service industry companies in general, the 2009: 117k.
direct environmental effects of our operations largely relate to facilities management.
In 2006, we commissioned the Carbon Neutral Company and the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management to assess our carbon footprint.
The study looked at both our London and West Malling operations, as well as the effect of our employees commuting to work and travelling for business.
As a result, various energy-saving and recycling initiatives were introduced as part of our commitment to minimise the negative environmental impact of our operations.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Jupiter Fund Management plc
