CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Committees principal role is to: governance.
This report describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code issued by the Financial monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and Reporting Council the Code have been applied by the Company review significant reporting judgements: during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Company confirms that, with the exception of the short period referred to below when review the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls: the Company had not appointed a senior independent director, it has review the process for the management of risk and the assurance complied throughout 2010 with the provisions of the Code, a copy procedures over controls designed to manage key risks: of which is available at www.
The revised UK Corporate Governance Code which was published by the Financial Reporting monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit Council in June 2010 the New Code will apply to the Company function: for the 2011 financial year.
make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment The Board of the external auditor: The Board currently comprises a Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other executive directors and four non-executive directors who have monitor and review auditor independence: and wide experience and are, together with the Chairman, considered by both the Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external Mr J F Harris, who was the senior independent director and acted as auditor to supply non-audit services.
Interim Chairman following Mr A J Habgoods retirement in 2009, retired from the board on 28 February 2010.
The appointment of a The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the senior independent director to succeed Mr J F Harris was considered Companys senior management and, when appropriate, the Head by the Board after Mr P G Rogerson had assumed the role of of Internal Audit and the external auditor prior to Committee meetings Chairman on 1 March 2010, and accordingly, Mr P W Johnson was to discuss the items to be considered at the Committee meetings.
appointed as senior independent director on 21 April 2010.
None of In addition, separate discussions are held between the Committee the Companys non-executive directors had any previous connection and the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor without with the Company or its executive directors on appointment to the management present.
The Committee Chairman also attends the Board.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page 23.
Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings and the might be raised on the Committees activities.
During the year the procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall Committee met on three occasions and its activities included: control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues are set out in the internal control section below and receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in in the Financial review on pages 16 to 18.
The Board has Audit, relation to the half year and annual financial statements: Remuneration and Nomination Committees which comply with the provisions of the Code.
The Chief Executive is the designated member reviewing the half year and annual financial reports and the formal of the Board responsible for environmental, social and governance announcements relating thereto: matters and reports to the Board in relation to such matters.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the Board, receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit its Committees and individual directors overseen by the Chairman.
in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and individual and reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme discussions with, each director.
Led by the senior independent for the year: director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial Chairman periodically holds meetings with the non-executive directors controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys without the executive directors present.
These processes were carried risk management systems: out satisfactorily during the year as a result of which the Board concluded that both it and its Committees are operating effectively.
reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, The Board also oversees the process for reviewing any potential raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial conflicts of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the reporting or other matters: Board and this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
Finally, the Chief Executive annually presents a management reviewing the Committees terms of reference and the Committees succession plan which is discussed with the Chairman and the effectiveness: non-executive directors.
Detailed information concerning the directors remuneration is given in the Directors remuneration report on pages reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and 32 to 40. the internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires by both the Board and senior management In accordance with the terms of the New Code, each of the directors will within the Company: be subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment Audit Committee of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive engagement of the auditor: directors and is chaired by Mr D J R Sleath who is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While the reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work which Chairman of the Company, the Finance Director and the Chief the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work: Executive are not members of the Committee, they normally attend and meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
reviewing the processes and procedures applied by the Company in relation to the integration of newly acquired businesses into the Group.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent Nomination Committee of the Company and receives written confirmation from the external The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, auditor as to whether it considers itself independent within the who chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive and all of the nonmeaning of its own internal and the relevant regulatory and professional executive directors.
The majority of the members are independent requirements.
Key members of the audit team rotate off the Companys non-executive directors.
The Committee meets as necessary to enable audit after a specific period of time.
it to make recommendations to the Board on new appointments of executive and non-executive directors.
An external search consultancy is In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the retained by the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered external auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also preas prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, executive approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided by directors.
Candidates are then interviewed by members of the Committee the external auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each service before an appropriate recommendation is made to the Board.
On joining category that can be provided by them, subject to a maximum the Board, new directors are given an induction into the business of the individual engagement value.
A service requires specific authorisation Company and training as necessary.
The terms of reference of the from the Committee or the Committee Chairman where it does not fall Committee are set out on the Companys website.
within the pre-approved categories or where its value exceeds the maximum pre-approved individual engagement value.
Such non-audit Meetings attendance service categories which are pre-approved principally comprise tax The following table shows the attendance in 2010 of directors at Board services and further assurance services relating to pre-acquisition due meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which they are diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and members: disposals of businesses.
The Committee believes that given the Audit Remuneration Nomination external auditors detailed knowledge of the Groups operations, its Board Committee Committee Committee structure and accounting policies and the importance of carrying out Number of meetings 8 3 4 2 tax services and detailed due diligence as part of the acquisition process, it is often appropriate for this additional work to be carried out P G Rogerson 8 2 by the Companys auditors.
However other firms are also used by the M J Roney 8 2 Company to provide non-audit services and it is the Companys policy J F Harris 2 to assess the services required on a case by case basis to ensure that C A Banks 7 3 4 1 the best placed adviser is retained.
Details of the fees paid to the U Wolters 7 3 3 2 external auditor in 2010 in respect of the audit and for non-audit P L Larmon 8 services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
B M May 8 P W Johnson 8 3 4 2 As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment D J R Sleath 8 3 4 2 of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure of the auditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of Mr J F Harris retired as a director on 28 February 2010 having the external auditor and considers whether there should be a full attended both of the Board meetings held between 1 January 2010 tender process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the and that date.
There were no Nomination Committee meetings during Committees choice of external auditor.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review Relations with shareholders of the external auditors activities during the year, the Committee The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the half year results announced normally at the end of August and the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to annual results announced normally at the end of February.
In addition shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Company publishes two interim management statements a year as required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board Remuneration Committee the views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent include presentations of the half year and annual results.
The non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr C A Banks.
While neither Chairman and the senior independent director and the other nonthe Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are members executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation except request.
The Board also periodically reviews and discusses analysts when the Committee is considering matters concerning themselves.
and brokers reports and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the Companys by the Companys own brokers.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
remuneration report on pages 32 to 40.
The terms of reference of the All shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Annual General Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meeting, are invited to ask questions at the Meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors informally.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on the proxy form.
At the Annual General Meeting held in 2010, the Board decided that each of the resolutions put to the meeting would be taken on a poll rather than on a show of hands.
The same procedure will be followed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as directors believe that a poll is more representative of shareholders voting intentions because shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares held and all votes tendered are taken into account.
The results of the poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
30 Corporate governance Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Internal control and risk management the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for discussions on internal control and risk management issues which identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: Groups system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not fraud risk assessment: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance the Company has established the procedures actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: evaluating, managing and mitigating significant risks to the Group.
The directors confirm that such procedures have been in place for the year the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of these weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
the internal audit department periodically reviews individual To ensure that the directors maintain overall control over all significant businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board controls and follows up to ensure that management implement meets regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a the recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
is determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are These include the approval of the annual and half year results of the reported to Group and business area management as well as Group, the Groups strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital to the Audit Committee: expenditure and acquisition divestment proposals, material increases to borrowing and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent reference for the Board Committees.
non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out on The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for pages 29 and 30: establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess this system include: the risks throughout the Group: a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control the management committee, which oversees issues principally system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined relating to environment, health and safety, insurance and business lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and monitors their implementation: clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment and acquisitions: risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress against objectives established by each business area are periodically strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared carried out: and annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually monitored formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics and by Group management in association with external advisers.
whistle blowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and fair dealing: The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the a well established consolidation and reporting system for the system of internal control and risk management in operation during 2010. statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of timely and accurate management information relating to the internal financial control and the data contained in the financial operation of the Groups businesses: and statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies and procedures for the Groups treasury operations.
On behalf of the Board P N Hussey Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the Secretary effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage 28 February 2011 and mitigate business risk are listed below: central management holds regular meetings with business area management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the business areas and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed: an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and also reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area meetings on internal control and risk management issues: Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance 31
