CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate decision and approval which include, but are not limited to: governance which it considers to be central to the effective the Groups business strategy management of the business and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
The Group complies with the laws and endeavours annual budget and operating plans to observe the customs and culture in the countries in which it major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments operates and does business.
The Group expects all directors and employees to drive to achieve the highest standards and to act the systems of corporate governance, internal control and with respect and integrity.
The Board monitors and keeps under risk management review the Companys corporate governance framework.
the approval of the interim and annual financial statements In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, any interim dividend and the recommendation of the the Company confirms that throughout the financial year ended final dividend 31 March 2010 and as at the date of this Annual Report it complied in full with the relevant provisions set out in section 1 of The Board held six scheduled meetings during the year and also the UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Groups strategy was regularly This report, together with the Directors Remuneration Report on reviewed.
All directors participate in discussions relating to the pages 70 to 79, provide details of how the Company has applied Groups strategy, financial and trading performance and risk the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board considers that it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group and Committee meetings during the financial year ended and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance 31 March 2010. and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board has eight members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and five independent non-executive directors.
The names and biographical details of each of the directors and details of their membership of the Boards committees are set out on page 61.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Ad hoc John Peace 6 6 1 1 4 4 2 2 Angela Ahrendts 6 6 1 1 2 2 Philip Bowman 5 6 0 1 3 3 4 4 1 2 Ian Carter 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 2 2 Stacey Cartwright 6 6 1 1 Stephanie George 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 2 2 David Tyler 6 6 1 1 3 3 4 4 2 2 1 John Smith 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 John Smith was appointed a non-executive director on 1 December 2009 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 2 February 2010.
He has attended all Board and Committee meetings held since his appointment.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to During the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact effectively discharge its duties.
Where there are occasions when and met with the Senior Independent Director and other directors are unable to attend a meeting they have the opportunity non-executive directors.
to review meeting papers and submit comments to the relevant Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly management The Board is chaired by John Peace.
The Chairman is report, which provides information on operational and financial responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
performance and the Groups business plans.
Angela Ahrendts is the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
the Group, supported by the Executive Operations Committee.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a The division of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain, Chief Executive Officer are formally set out in writing and agreed in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional by the Board.
advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Board balance and independence Company Secretary and all senior management.
John Peace, Philip Bowman, Ian Carter, Stephanie George, John Smith and David Tyler are, in the opinion of the Board, Board performance evaluation independent of management and free from any business The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise performance and that of its committees each financial year.
In of their independent judgement.
During the year under review, 2009 10, the evaluation was led by the Chairman and involved the the majority of the Board excluding the Chairman comprised completion of a detailed questionnaire.
The review considered the independent non-executive directors.
outcomes of previous evaluations, the current composition and responsibilities of the Board and each of its committees, together The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, supports the with the frequency and structure of meetings.
In addition, the Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive directors in the review considered the contribution and effectiveness of the oversight of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior executive and non-executive directors.
Feedback from the review Independent Director has a specific responsibility to be available to was considered and it was concluded that the Board and its shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels have committees operate efficiently and effectively.
failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
As a result of the review in 2008 09, it was agreed that the Board appointments Board would dedicate more time to meeting with senior Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the management.
In October 2009, the Board Strategy meeting was Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All directors attended by senior management from around the world who are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General presented at the meeting.
Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election at least once every three years in line with the Companys The evaluation of the Chairman, which was led by the Senior Articles of Association and provision A.
The Independent Director, was undertaken at a formal meeting of biographical details of those directors seeking election and the non-executive directors.
The review concluded that the re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be Chairman continues to provide effective leadership and that found on page 61 of this Annual Report.
he committed sufficient time to the performance of his duties.
The major commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his Information and professional development biography on page 61.
On appointment, directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, including meetings with members of the management The Board has agreed that the evaluation of its performance will team and briefings on particular issues.
In addition, directors are be undertaken using an external facilitator in 2010 11. furnished with an induction pack of information, which includes Conflicts of interest key Group policies, guidance notes and information on The Board has authority to approve directors conflicts and potential corporate governance matters.
conflicts of interest and has adopted a policy and procedures to As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with manage and, where appropriate, to approve such conflicts.
information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations from senior management throughout the Group.
66 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised is The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the review for Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has 2009 10, the Board concluded that there is currently no recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of the compromise to the independence of any director arising from senior management positions held by Philip Bowman, David an external appointment or any outside commercial interest.
Tyler and John Smith see biographical details on page 61.
Committees The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The The Board is supported by a number of committees including attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the the following principal committees: Audit Committee, table on page 65.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive non-executive directors are members of each of the principal Officer, the Executive Vice President-Chief Financial Officer, the committees of the Board.
Director of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Senior Vice President Group Finance, the Director of Tax and the external auditors The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are regularly attend meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible available on request and can be viewed on the Companys for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups website www.
internal control procedures and risk management systems.
The committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with During the year, the Committee reviewed the Groups internal third-party consultants and independent professional advisors audit plan and approved the internal audit plan for the financial and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them year to 31 March 2011.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the in developing their respective roles.
In addition to the relevant adequacy of the whistle-blowing arrangements in place to committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisors enable employees to raise, in confidence, any concerns they and, on occasion, other directors attend committee meetings but may have.
The Committee is satisfied that such arrangements only at the invitation of the chairmen of the committees.
Audit Committee During the financial year, the Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee comprises five independent effectiveness of the external audit process and the qualification, non-executive directors: expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fee and terms Philip Bowman Chairman of engagement for the financial year to 31 March 2010 and has Ian Carter recommended to the Board that it propose to shareholders that Stephanie George  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups John Smith appointed 2 February 2010 external auditors.
David Tyler The Committee recognises that the independence of the The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the set out in written terms of reference.
The Committee monitors the types The Audit Committee is responsible for: of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not reviewing financial statements and formal announcements compromised.
Any proposed non-audit assignments require relating to the Groups performance prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and risk meeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried out management systems by the external auditors in addition to their normal work.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial year can be found in note 5 in the financial statements.
internal audit function Remuneration Committee assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages of the external auditors 70 to 79. developing and implementing policies on the engagement Nomination Committee of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services The Nomination Committee comprises: making recommendations for the appointment, reJohn Peace Chairman appointment and removal of the external auditors and Angela Ahrendts approving their remuneration and terms of engagement Philip Bowman reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in Ian Carter confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties Stephanie George in matters of financial reporting and other matters John Smith appointed 2 February 2010 David Tyler Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal balance and composition of the Board and its committees and control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal of that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
balance of skills and experience and that there is in place an This process was in place throughout the year under review and appropriate plan for orderly succession to the Board.
The up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
procedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in During the year under review, the Nomination Committee accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The key considered and reviewed the structure of the Board and its procedures operating within the Group are as follows: committees, the Groups succession planning arrangements and Board Performance Evaluation.
These arrangements will Risk assessment be kept under review by the Committee.
The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the The Nomination Committee met twice during the year under achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of review.
The table on page 65 gives details of directors financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
The Group Risk Committee of executive management meets An external consultancy was used in connection with the formally at least three times a year to re-evaluate risk and to appointment of John Smith as a non-executive director.
consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance and The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive other assurance teams.
During the year, the Committee met directors are available for inspection at Horseferry House, on three occasions.
The Director of Audit and Risk Assurance Horseferry Road, London SW1P 2AW and will be made available attends these meetings.
for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for considering the meeting itself.
operational, financial, compliance and other risks to the business Corporate Responsibility and has delegated responsibility for reviewing the risk Details of the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility are management procedures to the Audit Committee.
Control environment and control activities Accountability and audit The Group consists of a number of businesses, each with its The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced own management structure which forms part of the overall and understandable assessment of the Groups position and management structure of the Group.
In this context, reference should be made to the of these units report to the executive directors.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 80, which The Group has established procedures for the delegation of includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding authorities for matters that are considered significant, either the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Report of the because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure Auditors on page 81 which includes a statement by the auditors that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public and procedures which are either already laid down or are being reports and reports to regulators as well as to information established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and required to be presented by law.
procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, compliance with legislation and physical security.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the system of internal control and the Audit Committee reviews its risk factors that have been identified.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than framework of internal control and the use of third-party services eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against approaches are taken, such as insurance.
The Audit Committee has reviewed Information and communication the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, established to provide internal control.
As part of the process that focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an the Board has in place to review the effectiveness of the internal appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results supported control system, there are procedures designed to capture and by commentary and performance measures is provided to the evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those Board each month.
The performance measures are subject categorised by the Board as significant, procedures exist to to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
68 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED A summary of the key business risks and relevant control Annual General Meeting measures is submitted by the executive directors at each Audit In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee meets with both 2009 Annual General Meeting was sent to shareholders at least external and internal auditors.
20 working days before the Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
All directors Monitoring attended the 2009 Annual General Meeting and the Chairman A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective of the Board and the chairmen of each of the committees were application of internal control within the Group.
These include available to answer shareholders questions.
management review, management confirmations of compliance with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and Voting at the 2010 Annual General Meeting will be by way of other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the be announced and details of the votes will be available to view effectiveness of internal control systems.
on the Companys website www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good It is the intention that all directors, including the chairmen of the communications with its shareholders and does this through the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will attend Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available to management statements, the Annual General Meeting and answer shareholders questions.
through the additional processes described below.
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary and interim results: these presentations are made available on the Companys website www.
The Company communicates with its institutional investors frequently and regularly through a combination of formal meetings, participation at investor conferences and informal briefings with management.
The Board is kept abreast of the views of major shareholders by briefings from the Director of Investor Relations.
During the year, the Board obtained an independent insight into the views of major shareholders through research undertaken by Makinson Cowell, an external capital markets advisory firm.
The outcomes of that research were presented and reviewed by the Board.
In addition, analysts notes and brokers briefings are also used to achieve a wide understanding of investors views.
The non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting be requested.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2009 10 69
