Corporate governance 23 The directors are required to report on how the The chairman takes personal responsibility for Corporation has applied the main and supporting leadership of the board and ensures that directors principles in the Combined Code on Corporate receive accurate, timely and clear information.
Governance the Code, and to confirm that it has He reviews the provision of information with the complied with the Codes provisions or, where this company secretary at least annually.
has not been the case, to provide an explanation.
The board operates as a collective decision This report is in respect of that version of the Code making forum.
Individual directors are required to published in June 2008.
The updated UK Corporate scrutinise reports produced by the executive, and Governance Code, published in 2010, applies to are encouraged to debate issues in an open and reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June constructive manner.
If one or more directors 2010 and the Corporation will be taking any steps cannot support a consensus decision, a vote will necessary to ensure compliance with the new be taken and the views of a dissenting director Code during the current year.
A copy of the Code recorded in the minutes.
may be obtained by visiting www.
The Corporation was a constituent of the FTSE 250 Procedures are in place to enable independent during the period of the review, so all of the professional advice to be taken by individual provisions of the Code apply to it.
However, the directors at the Corporations expense, and Code recognises that investment companies such appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect as Law Debenture may have board structures which of legal action against the directors.
might affect the relevance of particular provisions The board meets regularly throughout the year.
Where Law Debenture has departed The attendance records of the directors both from any provisions of the Code, this is explained at meetings of the board and, where relevant, below.
This corporate governance statement is meetings of board committees are set out in the intended to form a part of the directors report.
There was also a strategy day during the year attended only by the directors.
The board role, modus operandi and appraisal Board Remuneration Audit Nominations The board includes a majority of non-executive Number of meetings directors.
The names of the directors, all of whom in the year 8 3 3 1 served through the year, along with biographies, are on page 5 of the annual report.
Meetings attended by: C. J. Banszky 8 The board is responsible for the overall strategy A. C. Cates 6 2 2 1 and management of the group, setting investment J.
A. Kay 6 3 2 1 policy and strategy and ensuring that the D. C. P. McDougall 7 3 3 1 Corporation is operating in compliance with C. Smith 7 3 3 1 statutory and legal obligations.
There is a formal One of these was held at short notice to take routine decisions.
schedule of matters specifically reserved for board decision, and this document is published The board keeps under review the performance of on the Corporations website www.
com the executive director, and the chairman formally under investment trust investor information.
appraises all the directors each year.
The nonMatters connected with strategy and executive directors meet once each year without management, structure and capital, financial the presence of the chairman to review the reporting and control, investment trust portfolio, chairmans performance, the results of the review contracts, shareholder communication, board being discussed with the chairman by the senior membership and other appointments, independent director.
remuneration and corporate governance are Mr Cates is the senior independent director.
He is reserved for the board.
There is a separate available to shareholders who have concerns that schedule setting out the division of responsibility cannot be addressed through the chairman, between the chairman and managing director.
managing director or chief financial officer.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 24 Corporate governance continued The board independence directors, which are available for inspection at the At least half of the board, excluding the Chairman, AGM.
Particular care is taken to ensure that nonmust be independent non-executive directors.
The executive directors have sufficient time to commit to board has concluded that as at the date of this the duties expected of them.
No new non-executive report, excluding the chairman, three of the four director is appointed without first being interviewed other directors are independent non-executives.
In by each existing non-executive director.
judging independence, the board takes into account All new directors undergo an induction process, whether or not a director is independent of involving presentations by the managing director management and any material business or other and each business head and meetings with the relationship that could affect or interfere with the investment manager.
exercise of objective judgement by the director, or his her ability to act in the best interests of the All directors are submitted for annual re-election, Corporation and its subsidiaries.
subject to continued satisfactory performance, which is assessed as described above.
There is The chairman, Mr McDougall, was independent at no maximum number of terms that a director appointment and continues to be independent in the may serve.
view of the board, notwithstanding the fact that he has served as a director for more than nine years Directors remuneration and that he is not taken into account in assessing the Details of the directors remuneration appear in the independence of the board as a whole.
Assessment remuneration report on page 32. of independence should be about character and conduct, not on any arbitrary time limit.
Board committees The board is satisfied that Mr McDougalls other The board has established a nominations commitments do not interfere with the discharge of committee, an audit committee and a remuneration his responsibilities to Law Debenture, and is committee, to which it has delegated certain satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to responsibilities.
Each committee has terms of discharge his duties as chairman of Law Debenture.
reference, which are published on the Corporations website www.
com investment-trust investorMr Cates has been a director for more than nine information corporate-governance.
Membership of years since his first election.
The board considers the Committees is kept under review, taking account that he remains independent and has classified him of the Codes acknowledgement of the position of as such because of his independent qualities of investment trusts.
The board is deliberately kept character and judgement.
small in the best interests of shareholders.
It is the Professor Kay was independent at appointment in expertise of directors that counts, not the number of September 2004 and remains so, having had no them.
The Corporation is not apologetic for the previous connections with the Corporation or any of minor areas of non-compliance reported in the its subsidiaries.
Mr Smith was independent at appointment in March A majority of members of board committees are 2009 and remains so.
independent non-executive directors as assessed by the board.
The Code says that the chairman should The board re-election and renewal not be a member of the audit committee.
The The nominations committee described in more Corporations board has concluded that given the detail elsewhere in this report ensures that the range and complexity of issues considered by the board has in place arrangements for orderly and committee and the Chairmans particular expertise in transparent appointments to the board.
There are the financial management of investment trusts, it is job descriptions in place for non-executive directors appropriate to have four members including the roles, and the board has written terms and chairman.
Non-compliance with this part of the Code conditions of appointment for non-executive is in the shareholders best interests.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 25 The Code provides that the chairman may be a Monitoring the statutory audit: member of the remuneration committee but that he Reviewing the annual and interim accounts before she should not be its chairman.
The Corporations submission to the board, including particular focus board has concluded that it is appropriate, given the on changes in accounting policy, etc: and size of the board, for the chairman to be on the Reviewing the effectiveness of systems of internal remuneration committee and, given his experience control and risk management including monitoring and knowledge, that he is best placed of the four the internal audit function.
committee members to chair it.
Non-compliance with this part of the Code is, again, in the shareholders Members best interests.
C. Smith chairman D. C. P. McDougall A summary of each committee is set out below.
A. C. Cates The number of meetings held during the year, and J.
A. Kay the attendance record of committee members is set The board is satisfied that all members have the out in the table on page 23. necessary recent and relevant financial experience to serve.
Nominations committee Role Remuneration committee To keep under review the structure, size and Role composition of the board and make recommendations To develop the Corporations remuneration policy about adjustments that are deemed necessary, and to and oversee its implementation, monitoring the ensure effective succession planning in accordance effectiveness of the policy as it relates to the with legal and corporate governance needs.
Key duties Key duties Identification and nomination for board approval of Reviewing and agreeing the remuneration and suitable candidates to fill vacancies: benefits of the executive director and senior Succession planning in particular of the chairman executives in the light, as relevant, of corporate and managing director : performance against a range of measures: Making recommendations about the re-appointment Development of total remuneration packages, of non-executive directors: and taking account of factors set out in the Code, based in part on performance and subject to Ensuring that the board and its committees are suitable performance measurements as set by constituted to comply so far as practicable with the committee: and the Code.
To make recommendations to the board for any Members changes to long term incentive arrangements.
D. C. P. McDougall chairman A. C. Cates Members J.
A. Kay D. C. P. McDougall chairman C. Smith A. C. Cates J.
A. Kay Audit committee C. Smith Role The board does not operate a Management To assist the board in the management of the Engagement Committee.
The duties of such a groups finances and financial reporting structure.
committee are undertaken directly by the board.
Key duties Monitoring the independence and objectivity of the auditors, their performance and remuneration and making recommendations on the appointment of new auditors: www.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 26 Corporate governance continued Accountability and audit Board review of the groups matrix of key risks The statement of directors responsibilities in and controls: relation to the financial statements appears on An internal audit function, which involves not only page 22 of the annual report and accounts.
The each business department including overseas independent auditors report appears on pages 34 offices being subject to audit on a regular basis, and 35.
The directors confirm that the Corporation but also regular reviews of other business wide is a going concern as evidenced by the financial processes: statements, which demonstrate a healthy position, Testing by the compliance officer of the Financial taking into account all known and future anticipated Services Authority FSA regulated business liabilities, and the groups ability to meet those systems and controls: liabilities.
Periodic reports to the board by the compliance The financial statements present a balanced and officer about legal and regulatory changes, and the clear assessment of the financial position and steps that the board must take to comply: and prospects of the Corporation and the group.
The financial statements are reviewed by the audit Review of reports by the external auditors on their committee, then approved by the board, and signed annual audit work, and specific checks carried out by the chairman and managing director.
on behalf of treasury management clients.
Non-audit services provided by the auditor are The internal audit programme and system of reviewed by the audit committee to ensure that compliance checks have both been developed independence is maintained.
Non-audit fees are using a risk-based methodology and an evaluation shown at note 3 on page 45.
The boards policy is of process controls.
that non-audit work which normally consists of The board considers that the above measures taxation and other technical advice will be carried constitute continuing application of the Turnbull out by the Corporations auditors unless there is a guidance and form an important management conflict of interest or someone else is considered to tool in the monitoring and control of the groups have more relevant experience.
Internal controls An important element of the overall controls remains The following paragraphs describe the framework of a continuous review of the quality and effectiveness internal controls in place to ensure that the of internal financial controls of the group.
During the year, the board has continued to require that the Corporation complies with the Financial Reporting group maintains proper accounting records, so that Councils guidance the Turnbull guidance which it can rely on the financial information it receives to forms a part of the Code, and with the obligations make appropriate business decisions and also that of the UKLAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules the groups assets are safeguarded.
Key elements which require a description of the main features of of the systems of internal control continue to be: the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process.
This Regular qualitative self-assessment of the section should be read in conjunction with the effectiveness of the individual controls maintained business review, from which shareholders will better in the overall internal financial control framework: understand the risks that our internal controls are in Preparation by management of a comprehensive place to manage.
and detailed budget system, involving annual board The board monitors the effectiveness of internal approval and monthly comparison at board level of controls on a continuous basis and in a number of actual results with budgets and forecasts: ways, both directly through main board general Systematic reporting to the board of matters reviews and also by the more specific work carried relating to litigation, insurance, pensions, taxation, out by the audit committee.
The various accounting and cash management as well as legal, mechanisms include: compliance and company secretarial issues: The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 27 Review of internal audit reports by the appropriate Relations with shareholders and institutional operating company board and the audit shareholder responsibilities committee: The Corporations compliance with these aspects of the Code is described separately within the Review of the internal controls of those services, directors report.
such as investment management, custody and registration, which have been delegated to third Information about share capital parties, such review being conducted during the The information that the Corporation is required to initial contractual negotiation and on a regular disclose about its share capital can be found in the basis, including annual discussions with the senior directors report significant holders and AGM notice management and compliance staff of Henderson total voting rights.
There are no other disclosures Global Investors Limited: that need to be made about share capital.
Monitoring by the board of the investment management process, including the establishment Annual general meeting and maintenance of investment guidelines, Details of the AGM for 2011 are set out at pages receiving a report from the investment manager at 65 to 68. each board meeting, the review of all transactions The board recognises the value of the AGM as an with the investment manager and regular opportunity to communicate with investors and reconciliations of the records of the group with encourage their participation.
Separate resolutions those of the global custodian and investment data are put to the AGM on each substantially separate services provider: and issue.
Except where a poll has been called, the level Receipt of frequent and detailed reports about the of proxies lodged for each resolution, and the independent fiduciary services businesses, balance for and against the resolution and the including the overseas subsidiaries.
number of votes withheld is disclosed to the The systems of internal financial control are meeting.
This information is published immediately designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, after the AGM on the Corporations website.
The assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 21 working days before the By means of the procedures set out above, the meeting.
Where requested by nominee holders, directors have established a process for identifying, annual reports and related documentation are evaluating and monitoring the effectiveness of the circulated to beneficial owners and the Corporation internal control systems for the period.
This process is happy for beneficial owners to attend the AGM has been in place throughout 2010 and will be and where appropriate arrangements have been reviewed by the board on a regular basis.
made with the nominee to vote their shares in Arrangements are in place by which staff of the person.
group may, in confidence, raise concerns under the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 about possible Summary statement of compliance improprieties in matters of financial reporting or The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by other matters.
If necessary, any member of staff the disclosures made in the foregoing, the with an honest and reasonable suspicion about Corporation has complied throughout 2010 with the possible impropriety may raise the matter directly requirements of the Combined Code on Corporate with the chairman of the audit committee.
In Governance or, where it has not complied, an addition, the executive staff have access to an explanation has been provided.
Compliance is external whistle blowing service.
Arrangements are reported in respect of the entire Code.
in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
