GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 57 AUDIT COMMITTEE REpORT.
private meetings with the Group Chief Internal Auditor and representatives of the external auditors.
The Committee met five times during 2010.
Agendas for meetings are linked to events in the Groups HENRY STAUNTON financial calendar.
CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee operates under formal terms of reference and these are reviewed annually.
The IN 2010 THE wORk OF THE AUDIT Committees terms of reference include all matters required by the Combined Code.
COMMITTEE HAS BEEN CLOSELY LINkED wITH THAT OF THE GROUp The work of the Committee is closely linked with RISk COMMITTEE.
that of the Group Risk Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is also a member of the Group Risk Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee reports back to the THE COMMITTEE Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
Members ACTIVITIES Henry Staunton A principal responsibility of the Committee is to monitor Dame Clara Furse until 2 January 2011 the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
As part Frances Heaton until 2 November 2010 of this, the Committee reviewed the areas requiring Rudy Markham until 26 May 2010 judgement as part of the preparation of the Groups Nick Prettejohn from 15 March 2011 financial statements during 2010.
These areas change James Strachan over time.
With input from the Groups external auditors, Sir David Walker 15 February 2011 only including their assessment of the Groups financial reporting and control risks, the Committee reviewed the Membership of the Audit Committee currently significant financial reporting issues and judgements as comprises two non-executive directors and myself as well as the key disclosures to be included in the financial Chairman.
The Combined Code requires at least one statements published during the course of 2010.
The financially qualified member as recognised by the market announcements which accompanied the financial Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
statements were also reviewed to ensure consistency Currently, membership of the Committee fulfils this with the contents of the financial statements.
All members of the Committee are required to be financially literate and to have relevant A sound system of internal control is essential corporate finance experience.
New Committee members for reliable financial reporting and for the effective participate in training upon joining the Committee, which management of the Group.
To assess the quality of covers the role of the Committee, its terms of reference the control environment of the Group, the Committee and key current issues relevant to the matters received regular reports during the year from the considered by the Committee.
external auditors, as well as from the Internal Audit department, following their work in reviewing and The Committee invites the Group Chairman, Group Chief auditing the Groups control environment.
The Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Committee also invited senior managers from business Risk Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief areas across the Group to report to the Committee on Internal Auditor, UK Actuary and representatives of the quality of the controls in their business area.
This the external auditors,  LLP, was usually linked to a report from the Groups external to attend all of its meetings, although it reserves the auditors or the Internal Audit department on their right to request that they withdraw at any time during findings on the control framework in that business area.
Other senior management are invited In this way, the Committee obtains the fullest picture to present reports as required by the Committee to possible to enable it to be satisfied with the effectiveness discharge its duties.
The Committee regularly holds of the Groups internal control environment.
indd 57 25 03 2011 11:19 58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REpORT.
RESpONSIBILITIES The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Groups relationship with its external auditors including their effectiveness and independence.
The Committee Advise the Board on external financial reporting reviewed and agreed the audit plan for 2010, and any matters including significant financial reporting variations to this that were proposed during the year: issues and judgements and the Groups it also evaluated the quality of input, perceptiveness and accounting principles and policies, and any robustness of representatives of the external auditors changes to them.
through their reports to the Committee and their participation in discussion at Committee meetings.
Review the half year and annual financial The Committee also reviewed and agreed the fees statements prior to publication including payable to the auditors for their audit work.
On the related market announcements.
basis of this review, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it recommend that shareholders support Advise the Board on the effectiveness of the the reappointment of  LLP Groups internal control environment and risk as the Groups external auditors at this years AGM.
The Committee regularly reviews the amount and nature Consider and make recommendations to the of non-audit work undertaken by the auditors and the Board on the appointment of external auditors.
associated fees, and did so in 2010.
The Group has adopted a policy setting out the types of non-audit work Monitor the relationship with the Groups that may and may not be provided to the Group by the external auditors including audit expertise auditors.
This policy requires the Committee to approve and effectiveness, terms of engagement, the engagement of the auditors to undertake non-audit fees and their independence.
Non-audit work in excess of 250,000 must be subject to competitive tender.
If the auditors are Review the extent of non-audit services selected, the Committee is responsible for agreeing provided by the external auditors.
The policy also restricts the employment by the Group of former staff of the external Monitor the role and effectiveness of the auditors, and precludes the employment of any audit Internal Audit function including resourcing, partner if that partner was involved in providing audit annual internal audit plans, key findings and services to the Group in the last three years.
The Groups Internal Audit function makes an important The full terms of reference for the Committee contribution to the Committee in the discharge of its can be found on our website.
The Committee reviewed and agreed the internal audit plan for 2010 and evaluated the functions performance through the quality of reports provided to the Committee, management response to audit findings and the timeliness of the implementation of recommendations.
The level of skills and expertise of the individuals in the Internal Audit function and the resources available to the Internal Audit department, including staff numbers, were also reviewed.
indd 58 25 03 2011 11:19 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 59 SUMMARY OF wORk OVER THE LAST 12 MONTHS Re viewed the financial statements in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and 2010 Half Year results, and received reports from the external auditors on those statements.
Re viewed the basis for the preparation of the Groups accounts on a going concern basis.
Re viewed the significant disclosures contained in the financial statements.
Re viewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls based on reports received from management, Internal Audit and the external auditors and reviewed the proposed disclosures for the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts, including the Principal Risks and Uncertainties disclosed in the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and 2010 Half Year results.
Reviewed the market announcements which accompanied the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts and the 2010 Half Year results.
A greed the scope of audit work to be undertaken by the Groups external auditors and the fees to be paid to the auditors for this audit work.
Reviewed the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditors during the year and the non-audit fees paid to the auditors.
U ndertook a comprehensive review of the external auditors performance.
R eceived quarterly reports from the Group Chief Internal Auditor on internal audit work undertaken, key findings, management response and the implementation of recommended actions.
Re viewed the terms of reference for Internal Audit and evaluated the performance of the Internal Audit function.
R eceived annual reports from the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer.
Re viewed the Committees terms of reference.
R eceived regular updates on developments in accounting and financial reporting matters.
