60 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GOVERNANCE GROUp RISk COMMITTEE REpORT.
During 2010, the role of the Board in risk governance was the subject of much commentary.
The Board closely monitored developments in this area and in line with best practice, the Group Risk Committee is chaired by a non-executive director and its membership comprises independent non-executive directors.
The newly JOHN STEwART comprised Group Risk Committee met for the first time CHAIRMAN in 2010.
The Committees role is to provide guidance to the Board on the Groups risk management policies and DURING 2010, THE ROLE OF THE procedures and advice on acceptable risk taking in order to assist the Board in discharging its responsibility BOARD IN RISk GOVERNANCE wAS for setting the risk appetite for the Group.
In July 2010, THE SUBJECT OF MUCH COMMENTARY.
in line with the recommendations of the Walker review, OUR BOARD CLOSELY MONITORED the Board appointed Andrea Blance as Group Chief DEVELOpMENTS IN THIS AREA.
IN LINE Risk Officer to report, and have unfettered access, to the Committee.
The Committee must approve the wITH BEST pRACTICE, THE GROUp appointment or removal of the Group Chief Risk Officer.
RISk COMMITTEE IS CHAIRED BY A NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND ITS The Committee met three times during 2010.
The MEMBERSHIp COMpRISES INDEpENDENT Committee operates under formal terms of reference and these are reviewed annually.
The Chairman of the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS.
Committee reports back to the Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
ACTIVITIES A principal responsibility of the Committee is to advise THE COMMITTEE the Board on risk appetite in relation to the core risks that the Group may be exposed to, being: Members a insurance risks: b investment and market, liquidity and counterparty John Stewart Nick Prettejohn Chairman from 2 November 2010 credit risks: c regulatory and legal change: Dame Clara Furse Henry Staunton d material business and operational risks: and Chairman of the Audit Committee e reputational risks.
Rudy Markham James Strachan The Committee also considers risks that may emerge Membership of the Group Risk Committee currently as a result of changes in the economic and financial comprises four non-executive directors, the Chairman environments in which the Groups businesses operate.
of the Audit Committee and myself as Chairman.
The Committee invites the Group Chief Executive, Group The Committee advises the Board on the Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group appropriateness of the Groups overall risk management Chief Internal Auditor and representatives of the external framework and whether the framework is sufficient to auditors,  LLP, to attend all provide assurance that the key risks to the Group are of its meetings, although it reserves the right to request being appropriately assessed.
As well as being informed that they withdraw at any time during the meeting.
through regular structured reviews, the Committee Other senior management are invited to present reports is able to request specific reports and reviews on as required by the Committee to discharge its duties.
aspects of the framework from the Group Chief Risk L&G AR10 07 p55-61 230311 AT.
indd 60 25 03 2011 11:19 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 61 RESpONSIBILITIES Officer.
The inaugural meeting of the Committee received a detailed presentation on the components and overall operation of the framework.
The Committee Advise the Board on the Groups overall risk will also receive an annual report from the Group appetite for each of the categories of risk to Regulatory Risk and Compliance Director on regulatory which the Group may be exposed.
compliance matters and the Companys relationship with its regulator, the Financial Services Authority.
Oversee the management of those risks.
The Committee discharges its responsibilities through Monitor the impact of the principal risks on the receipt of reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer the Groups strategy and consider changes and a rolling programme of reviews considering the arising as a consequence of the Groups business and macro risks for specific aspects of the strategy, or market and regulatory events.
Reports cover both changes to the profile of risks arising from the pursuit of the Groups Advise the Board on the adequacy of strategy, as well as changes in external markets, the Groups overall risk framework and regulation and legislation.
During 2010, focused reviews recommend any necessary changes by the Committee included the risks associated with to the Board.
the Groups annuities business, the fiscal environment in which the Group operates and the implications of Review the Risk Management section to be sovereign debt events.
The Committee also considered included in the Groups Annual Report and the Groups programme of stress and scenario tests Accounts and to make a recommendation and the implications of the results to the Group.
to the Board regarding its acceptance.
The Committees work is closely linked to that of the The full terms of reference for the Committee Audit Committee, and the membership of the Chairman can be found on our website.
of the Audit Committee in addition to the regular attendance of the Group Chief Internal Auditor and a representative of the external auditors promotes a consistent and coherent approach to the oversight of risk on behalf of the Board.
The Risk Management section of this Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed and recommended to the Board by the Committee.
