56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 GOVERNANCE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REpORT.
RESpONSIBILITIES THE COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee leads the process for the appointment of new directors to the Board and Regularly review the structure, size and reviews on a regular basis whether the Chairman and composition of the Board and make the non-executive directors continue to be able to meet recommendations to the Board on any changes.
their commitments to the Company.
In relation to new appointments to the Board, lead the process for the identification Members and nomination of candidates to fill Board John Stewart Dr Ronaldo Schmitz until 26 May vacancies.
The Committee considers potential Dame Clara Furse Henry Staunton candidates on merit and against objective Frances Heaton until 2 November James Strachan criteria, and also considers a candidates ability Rudy Markham Sir David Walker to devote sufficient time to the job.
Nick Prettejohn from 2 November Review the time commitment required from The Committee is chaired by the Chairman, and all non-executive directors.
non-executive directors are members of the Committee.
Both Frances Heaton and Dr Ronaldo Schmitz were Consider succession planning for directors and members of the Committee prior to their resignation.
senior management to ensure the continued Nick Prettejohn joined the Committee on the date of his ability of the Company to implement its appointment.
The executive directors, as well as the strategy and compete effectively in the Group General Counsel and Group HR Director, may markets in which it operates.
The Committee is chaired by the vice Chairman when it is considering matters T he terms of reference can be viewed on our relating to the Chairman.
The Committee meets formally twice a year to review the succession plans in place for the executive directors and key senior management, Board composition and to consider the suitability of the directors standing independent and the Chairman was considered for re-election at the AGM.
Otherwise the Committee independent on appointment.
The Committee was meets periodically when required.
also satisfied that during 2010 the Chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the day to day All directors may serve on a number of other boards, performance of his duties for the Company.
provided they can demonstrate that any such During 2010, the Committee was active in the appointment will not interfere with their time commitment to the Company and that they obtain the appointment of a new non-executive director.
Early in agreement of the Chairman to the appointment before 2010, based on an assessment of the size of the Board and the balance of its composition, the Board decided accepting.
Executive directors must also obtain the permission of the Group Chief Executive.
This ensures to seek an additional non-executive director.
The balance that any potential conflicts of interest or any other of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board was evaluated, and the Committee developed an concerns around the proposed appointment are considered and addressed.
The major commitments appointment specification.
The specification included of our non-executive directors are outlined in their a desire for the appointee to have recent executive experience.
The Committee instructed external advisers biographies on pages 48 to 49.
Currently, non-executive directors are expected to commit up to 25 days per year.
to assist in the identification and shortlisting of potential The Committee remains satisfied that all non-executive candidates.
All Committee members and the Group Chief Executive met the short listed candidates and directors have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
The role and contribution of the unanimously resolved in November 2010 to recommend non-executive directors who have served for six years to the Board that Nick Prettejohn be appointed.
Nick Prettejohn formally joined the Board as a non-executive or more were closely reviewed by the Committee.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be director on 2 November.
