GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 55 ENGAGEMENT MATTERS.
SHAREHOLDERS BY SECTOR YOUR BOARD STRIVES TO ENSURE THAT IT IS IN TOUCH wITH 5 SHAREHOLDER OpINION.
1 4 1 Mutual Funds 31% 2 Retail 22% 3 Insurance 20% 3 4 Pensions 18% 2 It is of great importance to the Board to ensure that the 5 Other 9% direction of the Company is aligned with shareholders interests.
In order for engagement to be effective SHAREHOLDERS BY REGION it is vital for the performance of the Company to be clearly understood by shareholders, as well as other 4 stakeholders, and for the Board to be well informed of 3 shareholder opinion in response.
The Board approaches 2 engagement with the Companys investors as set out below.
1 UK 78.82% INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDERS 2 North America 10.64% 1 Frequent meetings are held with major shareholders: 3 Europe 7.37% 4 RoW 3.17% these are attended by a selection of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Financial Officer, the Chairman and members of the Companys Investor VOLUME OF SHARES TRADED Relations team.
The Senior Independent Director LGEN VO 60000 ensures that appropriate engagement takes place, 50000 and is available to attend meetings where necessary 40000 to ensure that he has a balanced understanding of any 30000 issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Sir David 20000 Walker, as the Senior Independent Director, is available 10000 to shareholders if they have any concerns that cannot 0 be resolved through the usual channels.
The Investor Relations department plays a key role in this process and regularly updates the Board on: this further in 2011 and would encourage all shareholders to vote.
Electronic facilities are provided significant changes in the share register: to make this as easy as possible for shareholders: details of contact with shareholders and the material votes can be cast online at www.
matters discussed: broker and analyst feedback on shareholder views: ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION share price movements compared to the market We are seizing the opportunity to minimise our impact and sector peer group: and on the environment and to improve the speed and any corporate governance issues raised efficacy of our communication with all shareholders.
We encourage shareholders to sign up for electronic communication at www.
Shareholders RETAIL SHAREHOLDERS who elect electronic communication will receive The AGM is a key event for the Board.
The Board email notification of the availability of shareholder welcomes the opportunity to communicate with its retail communications online and will be able to explore a investors at the Companys AGM.
Each of the Board wealth of other information displayed on the Companys directors, including the chairs of all Board committees, website at the same time.
Results presentations attend the AGM and are available to answer any are webcast so that all investors can access them questions.
At the 2010 AGM, 62.2% of shareholders simultaneously and slide presentations are also voted on the business proposed: we hope to increase made available on the website.
