governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 51 corporate governance Statement.
comBineD coDe on corporate governance and the day to day management of the organisation is led For the year ended 31 December 2010, the Board by Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive.
Tim is supported believes that the Company has complied with the by the other executive directors: John Pollock, Mark principles and provisions of the Combined Code.
Sir David Walker is our Senior Independent Director and vice Chairman.
For 2011, the Boards activities in leading the Company will be guided by the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have had a small number of changes to the Board this We made good progress during the latter part of 2010 year.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz and Frances Heaton retired in towards early implementation of the new requirements.
May and November respectively following nine years service to the Company and on 2 November 2010 we Your BoarD welcomed Nick Prettejohn to the Board.
His recent Your Board currently comprises the Chairman, six industry experience complements the existing range non-executive directors, who are all independent, of skills and experience on the Board.
At last years and four executive directors.
The Board is led by AGM, shareholders re-elected John Pollock and the John Stewart, who was independent on appointment, non-executive directors Rudy Markham, Henry Staunton overvieW oF our corporate governance FrameWorK auDitorS ShareholDerS Elect Elect the board the auditors nominationS auDit committee committee Ensures good Reviews Board composition integrity of fi financial statements Your BoarD group riSK remuneration committee committee Reports to Board Ensures remuneration Delegates day to day & guides risk appetite is appropriate management group chieF executive management team committee Structure L&G AR10 06 p48-54 230311 AT.
indd 51 25 03 2011 11:18 52 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 governance corporate governance Statement.
and James Strachan, who were appointed for further Succession planning is considered on an ongoing basis terms during 2009 and under the Companys Articles of for all Board members and senior management, and Association were required to offer themselves for arrangements are in place to help identify the right re-election.
The UK Corporate Governance Code, which people to continue leading the Company.
Sir David will apply for 2011, requires that all directors be subject Walker will retire from the Board this year.
to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Board has decided to adopt this requirement as part of the Boards Service contractS commitment to shareholder accountability and The service contracts for the executive directors all accordingly, all directors with the exception of those provide for termination on notice by the executive intending to step down from the Board at the end of this director or the Company on 12 months notice or years AGM, will stand for re-election.
In relation to Tim Breedon and John Pollock, on pages 48 to 49 identify the experience each director the termination notice period is six months and on brings to the Board and the Board is satisfied that all termination, they would become entitled to six non-executive directors seeking re-election are properly months salary in addition to the payment of pension qualified by virtue of their skills and experience, and their contributions and car allowance.
The service contracts contribution to the Board and its committees continues of Nigel Wilson and Mark Gregory are terminable to be effective.
We consider that you should feel on 12 months notice.
confident in re-electing your Board for 2011.
If a director is not re-elected by shareholders at the AGM, their external DirectorShipS appointment will terminate with immediate effect.
Experience and qualities from other industries, and other aspects of commercial and public life, are valued It is important that the Board comprises the right balance by the Company as they contribute to the driving forward of skills and experience to provide effective stewardship of the Companys strategy by the Board.
This year our of the Company.
Appointments to the Board are the executive directors have expanded their skill set by responsibility of the Board as a whole acting on the taking on additional external responsibilities.
Tim advice and recommendations of the Nominations Breedon was appointed Chairman of the ABI on 14 July Committee.
The work of the Nominations Committee 2010.
Nigel Wilson was appointed a non-executive during 2010 is explained in more detail on page 56. director of Capita Group plc on 12 May 2010 and is Board and committee meetings attended by each director during 2010 Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Director Board 9 Committee 5 Committee 2 Committee 4 Committee 3 1 Sir R Margetts 1 1 n a n a n a n a 2 J Stewart 9 9 2 5 2 2 4 4 3 3 T J Breedon 9 9 5 5 n a 4 4 3 3 Dame C Furse 9 9 3 5 2 2 n a 3 3 M J Gregory 9 9 n a n a n a n a 3 F A Heaton 8 8 4 4 2 2 1 2 n a R Markham 9 9 1 2 1 2 4 4 2 3 J B Pollock 9 9 n a n a n a n a 4 N Prettejohn 2 2 n a n a n a 1 1 5 Dr R Schmitz 3 4 n a n a 1 1 n a H S Staunton 9 9 5 5 2 2 n a 3 3 J Strachan 9 9 4 5 2 2 n a 3 3 Sir D Walker 9 9 n a 2 2 4 4 n a N D Wilson 9 9 5 5 n a n a 2 3 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended by that director.
1 Retired from the Board on the 28 February 2010.
2 Chairman designate from 1 January 2010 and formally assumed the Chair on 1 March 2010.
3 Retired from the Board on 2 November 2010.
4 Appointed to the Board on 2 November 2010.
5 Retired from the Board on 26 May 2010.
indd 52 25 03 2011 11:18 governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 53 currently the Senior Independent Director at Halfords existing commitment that cannot be rearranged.
Where Group plc although he will step down on 31March 2011. a director is unable to attend, they still receive the papers for the meeting and have the opportunity to discuss Our non-executive directors hold a number of external the content at any time.
The Board also had four subdirectorships and other appointments: the details committee meetings to approve a number of routine are shown in their biographies on pages 48 to 49. business matters.
All Board members are invited to The time commitments of our non-executive directors attend these meetings.
are carefully assessed to ensure the Company continues to derive the benefit of their experience while avoiding The Board recognises that good corporate governance time commitments on the non-executive directors is the foundation for the Groups activities.
Your Board that are unduly onerous.
The Board has determined operates within a good governance framework, which that throughout 2010 the non-executive directors were is outlined on page 51.
In 2010, your Board allocated independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman the November Board meeting to discuss corporate was independent on appointment in accordance with governance, in particular Matters Reserved for the the Code.
Sir David Walker has served nine years on Board, the Terms of Reference for the committees the Board and will retire at the end of this years AGM.
and a number of Board policies.
The Board decided to compile these into a Corporate Governance handbook.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered The Board regularly reviews the performance of the office, on the Companys website and will be available Group and its businesses against plan and receives at the AGM.
regular reports from each executive director and the Group General Counsel.
The Board also receives inDuction programme detailed briefings from senior managers on the key New directors receive a personalised induction business areas which enable the Board to question programme, an information pack and meet key and review strategy and develop working relationships senior managers.
The induction pack outlines their with senior managers.
The Board takes regular account responsibilities and duties as a director, provides a of the significance ofsocial, environmental and ethical review of key Board documents and policies and gives matters to the businesses of the Group.
The work of a brief overview of the Group, its business and strategies the CSR Committee, which is chaired by the Group and the markets in which they operate.
The induction Chief Executive, is outlined on pages 46 to 47. programme enables directors to gain a more detailed understanding of the business.
The Board has defined the roles of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent training anD Development Director, and the division of responsibilities between The Board has actively embraced business awareness them, so that no one individual has unfettered powers sessions during 2010 through the Board Business of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for Awareness Programme, and ad hoc training sessions are the leadership and effective performance of the Board, conducted on topical issues as they arise.
Sessions this effective communication by the Board with the year included the changing regulatory and competitor Companys shareholders and, through the Company landscapes, Solvency II, Retail Distribution Review, Secretary, ensuring that Board members have the With-profits Committees, social welfare reform and information they require in order to discharge pension reforms.
They have also received various updates their responsibilities.
on legal, regulatory and corporate governance changes.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for leading the BoarD activitieS day to day management of the Group within the strategy This year the Board held nine scheduled Board meetings.
The Group Chief Executive The Board and committee meetings attended by each chairs the Executive Committee of which all executive director during 2010 areshown in the table on the directors are members together with the Chief Executive opposite page.
Non-attendance at a meetingis rare and Officer Investments, Group Chief Risk Officer and only arises if a director has an unexpected commitment Head of International.
The Group Regulatory Risk and or, for a newly appointed director, an unavoidable Compliance Director, Investor Relations and Strategy L&G AR10 06 p48-54 230311 AT.
indd 53 25 03 2011 11:18 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 governance corporate governance Statement.
Director, Human Resources Director and Group General withheld, will be announced to the London Stock Counsel are all in regular attendance.
Exchange and will be available on the Companys website directly after the meeting.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet formally in the absence of the executive directors at least internal control twice per year.
The Chairman also regularly meets the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups non-executive directors on a one to one basis to discuss internal control system and for monitoring its any concerns they may have about the Board or the effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance running of the Company.
The Senior Independent of the internal control systems are the responsibility Director is also available to the non-executive directors of the executive directors and senior management.
should they have any concerns about the performance The effectiveness of internal control is reviewed of the Chairman.
The non-executive directors formally regularly by the Audit Committee and the Board.
met in 2010 without the Chairman present to appraise Where failings or weaknesses are identified, actions the Chairmans performance.
In addition to the annual are taken to remedy those failings or weaknesses.
Board performance evaluation, which included The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast evaluation of the Board committees, executive directors performances of its businesses against their one participate in regular performance reviews with the year plans and other key performance indicators.
Group Chief Executive and are subject to a formal annual Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities appraisal.
The Chairman conducts regular performance are clearly defined.
The Groups control policies and reviews of the Group Chief Executive.
procedures are published on a dedicated intranet site, which is regularly updated and accessible throughout The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the the Group.
Senior managers are required to confirm Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
compliance with these policies throughout the year.
Directors have access to the advice and services of the The results of this confirmation process are considered Company Secretary as and when required, as well as to by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
independent professional advice at the expense of the These procedures, which are in accordance with Company.
The appointment and removal of the Company Turnbull Guidance, have been in place during 2010 Secretary is a matter reserved specifically for the Board.
and up to the date this report was approved.
annual general meeting agm The Code requires directors to review and report to The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, 25 May 2011 at The Honourable Artillery Company.
which include financial, operational and compliance Both electronic and written proxy appointment facilities control, and risk management.
The system of internal are available for shareholders.
Full details of the AGM, control is designed to manage rather than eliminate including explanatory notes, are contained in the Notice risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working assurance against material loss.
Further details on the days before the meeting.
The Notice sets out the way in which we manage risk can be found on pages resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an 14 to 15.
The internal control and risk management explanation of each.
All documents relating to the systems cover the Companys financial reporting AGM are available on the Companys website process and the Groups process for preparation www.
The Notice also sets out the deadlines for exercising For 2010, the Board was able to conclude, with voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal vote in relation to the resolutions to be proposed at control and risk management systems were the meeting.
All proxy votes are recorded and counted maintained throughout the year.
and full details of voting at the AGM, including votes L&G AR10 06 p48-54 230311 AT.
