11 4 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT A PERSONAL STATEMENT FROM SIR WINFRIED BISCHOFF Rebuilding trust in financial institutions generally is central also to achieving our aim of being recognised as the UKs best bank.
We are judged on how we do business, and how we respond to our stakeholders issues and needs.
In particular, we are judged on the effectiveness of our decision making.
We understand the reliance that investors, customers and other stakeholders place on our corporate governance arrangements and the need to ensure the integrity of those processes.
At the same time, I am aware from discussions with shareholders that there is a strong desire to understand more about the Boards thinking in this area, not just the end result.
By way of response, I want to use this statement to explain our approach to corporate governance and how we have ensured compliance with all the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code the Code, for our financial year ended 31 December 2010.
LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITY As Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group plc, a role that I am honoured to perform, I am responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
We operate a unitary Board with all Directors collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are kept advised of key developments, that they receive timely and relevant information and are involved in relevant decisions.
It is expected that all Directors, but particularly the Non-Executive Directors, constructively challenge proposals that come to the Board for decision.
I meet regularly with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present, either in private sessions held following Board or Committee meetings or in separately arranged meetings.
The Executive Directors are aware of such meetings through our Board calendar.
At the same time, we have provision for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with the Group Chief Executive without the Chairman, so that there can be feedback both ways.
I have enjoyed a constructive relationship with Eric Daniels, our Group Chief Executive, and with the wider Board over the last 18 months.
I look forward to a similar relationship with Antnio Horta-Osrio, our new Group Chief Executive, when he takes over on 1 March 2011.
A sound relationship between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive based on a mutual understanding of our respective responsibilities is essential to maintaining an open culture with the wider Board.
The Group Chief Executive manages the business day to day which in my view is the number one priority for any company.
The Chairman manages the Board.
There are in addition many other areas which we in turn share or to which each one of us contributes in varying degree.
Of course, responsibilities are clearly defined both in our terms of appointment and in the Board Governance Framework which sets out the respective roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Governance Framework is the Boards operating manual and sets out the matters that the Board has reserved to itself, including the development and setting of strategy and long term objectives: approval of the medium term plan and financial budgets: capital and structure of capital: significant contracts and various statutory and regulatory approvals.
In addition to the matters that it reserves to itself, the Board delegates certain matters to its Committees.
This delegation ensures that adequate time is devoted by Board members to the independent oversight of key controls.
All Committees act under terms of reference which are proposed by the Nomination & Governance Committee and then approved by the Board and reviewed regularly.
During 2010, all terms of reference were reviewed and updated.
Copies of the current terms of reference are available on our website, www.
Lloyds Banking Group Board Nomination & Group Remuneration Risk Audit Governance Chief Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Executive Committee All Committees report to the Board through reports from Committee Chairmen with respect to each meeting.
During 2010, the Chairmans Committee was disbanded.
Matters previously delegated to the Chairmans Committee were either transferred to the Nomination & Governance Committee which reports to the Board, or a Board agenda review meeting.
Further information on the membership, role and activities of each of the Committees during 2010 is detailed on pages 120 and 121.
All other matters, including responsibility for managing the business day to day, are delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 11 5 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Through the Executive Governance Framework approved by the Board, the Group Chief Executive reserves certain matters to himself and, subject to financial limits, delegates responsibilities to the Executive Directors and his other direct reports who collectively make up the Group Executive Committee.
The frameworks are reviewed by the Board at least annually.
In 2010, a comprehensive review of both frameworks was undertaken to ensure that they remained appropriate for the enlarged group.
Changes were made to ensure that the Board devotes the right amount of time and attention to key matters.
In 2010, we held a total of 17 Board meetings of which nine were scheduled at the start of the year.
The much larger number of meetings than anticipated reflects the challenging environment in which we continue to operate and the need to keep the Board informed of developments in a timely manner.
Details of attendance at meetings are set out on page 119.
When meetings are called at short notice, it is not always possible for all Directors to attend.
As Chairman, it is my practice to seek to contact any Directors that are unable to attend to obtain their views before any decision is taken.
All Directors participate in the development of strategy.
In addition to discussions at regular Board meetings, we held two strategy development sessions in 2010, one in April and the other in November.
The time spent at these meetings not only enables the Board to devote time to its strategic priorities but also to foster closer working relationships between Board members.
EFFECTIVENESS Since joining the Board in September 2009, one of my priorities has been to review the composition of the Board to ensure that the overall Board and Committee structure is appropriate for an organisation of the breadth and scale of Lloyds Banking Group.
I lead the review of the composition of the Board, which is a continuous process, through the Nomination & Governance Committee which I chair.
The Nomination & Governance Committee makes recommendations to the Board on matters relating to Board membership and governance.
Membership of the Nomination & Governance Committee at present comprises the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees and one other independent Non-Executive Director.
The Group Chief Executive is normally asked to attend.
This provides a broad perspective of views of the Board and its Committees.
The role of the Nomination & Governance Committee is explained on pages 120 and 121 and its key areas of activity in 2010 are explained below.
BOARD COMPOSITION In 2010, the Nomination & Governance Committee formulated a board composition policy statement which lays down the principles that are applied when reviewing Board composition.
The policy has been adopted by the Board and covers matters such as: Skills and experience In reviewing composition, the Board aims to ensure that its membership represents a mix of backgrounds and experience that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
As part of our ongoing review, we identify specific skills that we look for in prospective new Directors, having regard to the skills of the Board overall at the time, and the need to address longer term succession and current business priorities.
The annual Board evaluation is instrumental in identifying any new skills requirements, as well as possible shortcomings, gaps and inefficiencies.
We conducted Board evaluations in 2009 and 2010 with the help of outside consultants.
All Directors are required to have good and in most cases have deep experience and understanding of the banking and financial services sector.
The complexity of the Group means that broader skills are also required.
Maintaining the right balance is an ongoing priority.
The appointments of Glen Moreno and David Roberts in March 2010 enhanced the Boards collective banking skills with the majority of the Non-Executives, including myself, having substantial banking experience.
This is complemented by the strong financial, accounting and commercial backgrounds of other Non-Executive Directors.
The changes made to the Board during 2010 are explained in Board Changes below.
Diversity The Board is keen to ensure that, subject to merit, its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense including diversity of gender, ethnicity and background.
Appointments made to the Board during 2010 reflect this policy.
Further information is provided in Board Changes below.
As one of the founding Chairmen of The 30% Club, I am committed to improving the representation of women on UK corporate boards, including the goal of ensuring at least 30 per cent representation of women on boards by 2015.
Chairmen, I believe, have an obligation to speed up the pace of change and to influence the board selection process to widen the talent pool for consideration.
To do this, we need to champion diversity within our own organisations, and as part of that, develop our female talent and be prescriptive with search agencies to work towards an aspirational target for better female representation on boards.
Board size Our aim is to ensure that the size of the Board is sufficient to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
At year end, the Board comprised 14 directors which is within the range, albeit at the upper end, set by the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Mix of Independent and Executive Directors Our Boards preference is to ensure a strong majority of independent directors.
At year end, our Board comprised five Executive Directors, eight independent Non-Executive Directors and myself as Chairman.
The Code requirement that at least half the Board should be independent Non-Executive Directors has been met throughout the year.
116 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Independence The Nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for assessing the independence of Non-Executive Directors on appointment and annually.
It is satisfied that throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors were independent as to both character and judgement.
In assessing independence, the Committee does not rely solely on the Code criteria but considers whether, in fact, the Non-Executive is demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
It does this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also takes account of any relationships that have been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
In the view of the Nomination & Governance Committee, Glen Moreno, who was between January 2009 and August 2009 acting Chairman of United Kingdom Financial Investments which manages the Governments shareholding in the Group, continues to exercise his own and robustly independent judgement at all times.
Succession planning This is a key aspect of our overall review of Board composition and is explained fully in Succession Planning below.
BOARD CHANGES The Nomination & Governance Committee has overseen a number of changes to the Board during the year.
For new Non-Executive Directors, the process was conducted by the Nomination & Governance Committee with the support of an executive search firm, JCA Group.
The Group Chief Executives succession process was managed by a special sub-committee: details of which are set out in Group Chief Executive Succession.
Glen Moreno and David Roberts were appointed on 1 March 2010 specifically to enhance the Boards banking skills and expertise.
Glen Moreno combines strong financial services and commercial experience gained in both an executive and non-executive capacity in the UK and internationally, while David Roberts in-depth commercial and retail banking expertise complements the broader perspectives of other Non-Executives.
The appointment of Glen Moreno presented an opportunity to separate the roles of Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director both previously carried out by Lord Leitch.
With effect from 1 March 2010, Glen Moreno was appointed Senior Independent Director: Lord Leitch remains Deputy Chairman.
As Senior Independent Director, Glen Moreno acts as the primary sounding board to me as Chairman and as an intermediary for other Non-Executive Directors.
He is supported in this latter task by the Deputy Chairman.
The Deputy Chairman is also Chairman of Scottish Widows Group, the UKs largest life insurance company and an important component of our Group.
Anita Frew joined the Board on 1 December 2010.
In March 2010, after strengthening the banking experience on the Board, it was agreed that there was a need for someone with a more diverse financial and commercial background.
Anitas extensive experience of public companies across a range of sectors, including manufacturing as well as banking and asset management, has enhanced the diversity of perspectives on the Board.
Antnio Horta-Osrio joined the Board as an Executive Director on 17 January 2011 and succeeds Eric Daniels as Group Chief Executive on 1 March 2011.
The process leading to his appointment is explained in Group Chief Executive Succession.
In addition to the above appointments, the following retirements were announced in the year: Dr Wolfgang Berndt retired from the Board at the annual general meeting in May 2010.
Dr Berndt joined the Board in 2003 and during his tenure made a significant contribution to the Group particularly in the areas of strategy and measurement of results.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, he advocated a constructive and open dialogue with shareholders.
He was succeeded as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by Anthony Watson.
In September 2010, consistent with his contractual obligations and entitlements, Eric Daniels gave twelve months notice of his intention to retire as Group Chief Executive and director of Lloyds Banking Group plc and principal subsidiaries.
Eric Daniels will retire from the Board on 28 February 2011, but in line with his contractual obligations, he will remain an employee of the Company for the remainder of his notice period.
Under this arrangement, I will be able to draw on his knowledge and experience of our operations and customers, and these skills will also be available to support the Group, where needed.
Biographies for all current directors can be found on pages 110 and 111.
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION Anita Frew and Antnio Horta-Osrio were appointed to the Board after the annual general meeting held in 2010 and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Under the articles of association, Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Truett Tate are required to retire from the Board at the annual general meeting.
However, in the interests of good corporate governance and in accordance with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, effective from 2012, we have decided that all of the directors will retire voluntarily and submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
SUCCESSION PLANNING The Nomination & Governance Committee oversees the Boards arrangements for the longer term succession of Board and Committee members.
Non-Executive succession planning Non-Executive succession planning is addressed as part of our ongoing review of Board composition.
Our policy takes account of the need regularly to refresh our intake of Non-Executives to bring new perspectives, to ensure appropriate representation on each of the Boards Committees and Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 11 7 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 to plan for longer term succession.
The average tenure of our Non-Executive Directors is nearly three years.
Non-Executive Directors are currently appointed for three year terms.
Following the move to annual re-election of Directors, Non-Executive Directors will in future be appointed on a rolling 12 months basis.
Group Chief Executive Succession As Chairman, I am responsible for the succession arrangements relating to the Group Chief Executive, including process and the production of a plan.
It is important to maintain a thorough understanding of the market to ensure that the plan is regularly reviewed and refreshed.
If not already known to me, I take the time to get to know potential candidates so that I can assess their suitability for our Board.
In September 2010, immediately following the announcement of Eric Daniels retirement, a subcommittee of the Board the Succession Committee was established under my Chairmanship to lead the search for a suitable successor.
Other members of the Succession Committee were Lord Leitch Deputy Chairman, Glen Moreno Senior Independent Director and Anthony Watson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, all independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Succession Committee met at least once a week between September and November 2010 and was supported by the Group HR Director and the Head of Secretariat.
The Succession Committees remit was to appoint a successor who would be capable of leading the Group to the next stage of its development.
It was agreed that an extensive search should be conducted encompassing internal, external and international candidates.
Given the profile, breadth and challenges of the role, together with the need to be able successfully to lead the Group in the next phase of its development, it was clear that an exceptional candidate was required.
The starting point for identification of suitable candidates was our Chief Executive Succession plan which included Antnio Horta-Osrio.
We also considered other candidates, including one internal candidate.
In view of our succession plan, we did not appoint an executive search firm to assist with the search and selection process.
The executive search firm, JCA Group, was involved in the process which enabled us to appoint our new Group Chief Executive.
However I handled the approach to and the appointment of, Antnio Horta-Osrio in conjunction with the Succession Committee.
Antnio Horta-Osrio stood out in an excellent short list.
His skills closely match the role specification agreed by the Succession Committee including: strong retail and commercial banking experience gained in the UK and internationally, including experience at chief executive officer level, of running large scale, multi-product, multi-brand businesses: a proven track record of successful integration of retail banks in the UK and in Europe as part of a multi-jurisdictional, multi-brand organisation: strong understanding of the operational and regulatory environment in which banks operate both in the UK and globally, including a deep understanding of capital and liquidity management and the potential impacts of global regulatory change initiatives: the ability to foster a culture of fairness for customers, shareholders and colleagues: and the ability to provide leadership and strategic direction, to deliver growth in tough market conditions.
Following an intensive interview process and extensive due diligence, Antnio Horta-Osrio was named as our new Group Chief Executive in November 2010.
Executive Directors and senior executives The Nomination & Governance Committee and the Board are responsible for oversight of the process for succession and management development of the most senior executives both at and below Board level, including Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee.
The primary responsibility for this, however, rests with the Group Chief Executive.
Arrangements are reviewed at least annually with the latest review taking place in June 2010.
THE WALKER REVIEW In November 2009, Sir David Walker published his Review of corporate governance in UK banks and other financial industry entities the Walker Review.
The Nomination & Governance Committee was responsible for overseeing the Groups implementation of the Walker Review recommendations.
Although not yet fully in force, the Group has agreed to adopt those recommendations that did not require further clarification or regulatory pronouncement including with respect to the annual re-election of all Directors.
A review of Board procedures was undertaken including: Directors induction All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution based on an understanding of the Groups business model and the key challenges facing the Group and its businesses.
To ensure they can contribute from an early stage, they undergo an extensive induction on appointment.
Early in 2010, the Board reviewed and refreshed its induction programme to meet the Walker Review recommendation of a formal, substantive and personalised induction.
All Directors appointed during 2010 have undertaken a three stage induction process comprising: a corporate induction, which provides an overview of the Group, its strategy, operational structures and main business activities: governance and Directors responsibilities, which explains the role and statutory duties of a Non-Executive Director including the roles and responsibilities owed by banks and other financial services firms to the FSA and other regulatory bodies: and a bespoke induction plan prepared in consultation with me, tailored to the individual needs of the Director, to the specific role that they will carry out, and their skills experience to date.
118 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board training The Board receives regular refresher training and information sessions to address current business or emerging issues.
During 2010, Non-Executives undertook approximately five days of training, including 12 hours of structured training during Board meetings.
This is delivered through a variety of means, including sessions on matters such as liquidity and funding, stress testing, living wills, the Bribery Act and special Board sessions covering matters such as the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process and training for Approved Persons.
In addition, the Audit Committee arranged a series of deep dives to which all Board members were invited, and which provided an in-depth review of the operations of each of the business divisions and of the latest accounting standards and operating methodologies.
Half day sessions were delivered for each division amounting to three days in total.
Time commitments The Nomination & Governance Committee reviewed and formalised the expected time commitments for Non-Executive Directors.
The review laid down the expected time commitment for the Board, Committees and special responsibilities, eg Senior Independent Director, based on scheduled meetings only.
In 2010, as in 2009, the time commitment demanded of all Non-Executive Directors was considerable and substantially in excess of the time envisaged in their terms of appointment.
There has been no adjustment to fees to reflect the increased workload since January 2008.
I am grateful to our Non-Executives for the considerable personal contribution that they make to our Board and for accommodating the additional demands, often at short notice and at unsociable hours.
BOARD EVALUATION AND PERFORMANCE The Nomination & Governance Committee recommended to the Board that, as in 2009, the 2010 evaluation should again be facilitated externally.
Given the number of new entrants to this market, we agreed that we should explore the range of services available.
Following a tender process and interviews, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review was appointed to conduct the 2010 process.
Boardroom Review has no other relationship with the Company.
The review was conducted between October 2010 and February 2011 through confidential interviews with all Board directors and the Company Secretary, observation of a Board meeting and a review of selected papers.
The review was designed to be forward looking, assessing the quality of the Boards decision making and debate, and its overall contribution to, and impact on, the long term health and success of the business.
The review identified the strengths of the Board and its Committees and highlighted areas for the Board to work on in order to prepare for future challenges.
The Board evaluation also provides feedback on the individual performance of Directors which informs a general assessment and my assessment which is used for individual feedback.
As Senior Independent Director, Glen Moreno leads the review of my performance with the Board and provides feedback in a face-to-face meeting.
REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Anthony Watson, is responsible for overseeing the Groups remuneration arrangements and compliance with the FSAs Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference were amended in 2010 to address the recommendation of the Walker Review and, more recently, the FSA Remuneration Code, that performance related pay should be more closely aligned to the long term interests of the Company and its risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on our website, www.
An overview of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 120 and 121.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is explained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 124 to 141.
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the Company and its shareholders through greater engagement.
In 2010, there was regular dialogue with institutional shareholders with more than 300 equity investor meetings undertaken in the year.
Many of these meetings were undertaken by senior management primarily the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director or Board members.
As Chairman, I have attended a number of meetings with shareholders to discuss governance and strategic direction.
Anthony Watson, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, regularly meets our larger shareholders to discuss executive remuneration issues while Glen Moreno, the Senior Independent Director, separately meets with a range of major shareholders.
The Board is kept advised of the views of major shareholders by means of regular updates at Board and Committee meetings.
It also receives monthly reports on market and investor sentiment and shareholder analysis.
Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing day-to-day communications with institutional shareholders.
Supported by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, they achieve this through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders both at results briefings and throughout the year, as well as site visits and individual discussions with institutional shareholders.
The Company Secretary oversees communications with private shareholders.
The Groups annual general meeting provides an opportunity to meet the Groups Directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance, using the email address shown in the pack which will be sent to shareholders in March 2011.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 11 9 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, one of Europes largest asset managers and a Group company, complies with the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code, published in July 2010.
Details of Scottish Widows Investment Partnerships approach to stewardship and corporate governance can be found on its website, www.
In conclusion, I am pleased to confirm that the Group complied with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year ending 31 December 2010.
As an early adopter of several of the recommendations contained in the Walker Review, I believe the Group is well placed to comply with new provisions contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code which will apply to future reports, and to benefit thereby.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Chairman ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The attendance of directors at Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Nomination & Governance, Remuneration and Risk Committees of which they were members during 2010 are shown in the table.
Some Directors attended relevant Committee meetings as attendees periodically throughout the year, which are not shown below.
In addition, the Audit Committee arranged six half day deep dive meetings during 2010 which were open to and attended by other members of the Board.
Nomination & Governance Remuneration Risk Board meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee Regular Ad hoc Total Regular Ad hoc Regular Ad hoc Regular Ad hoc Regular Number of meetings during the year 9 8 17 7 1 3 2 4 11 4 Current directors who served during 2010 Sir Winfried Bischoff 9 7 16 3 2 4 11 4 J E Daniels 9 7 16 1 A M Frew 1 1 1 1 1 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 9 4 13 1 2 3 6 4 A G Kane 9 7 16 2 Lord Leitch 88 16 61 31 4 11 2 2 3 G R Moreno 7 6 7 13 2 2 1 1 4 5 2 2 4 D L Roberts 7 6 7 13 5 5 1 1 2 0 1 3 3 7 8 3 3 5 T T Ryan 9 6 15 7 3 3 6 8 4 6 M A Scicluna 9 7 16 7 1 2 2 4 G T Tate 9 8 17 T J W Tookey 9 8 17 7 Anthony Watson 9 6 15 7 1 2 2 3 3 7 8 2 2 H A Weir 9 8 17 Former directors who served during 2010 8 Dr W C G Berndt 4 2 3 6 1 1 2 2 2 2 6 6 1 Appointed to the Board, Audit and Risk Committees on 1 December 2010.
2 Stood down from the Risk Committee on 14 April 2010.
3 Appointed to the Board, Nomination & Governance, Remuneration and Risk Committees on 1 March 2010.
Stood down from the Remuneration Committee on 17 June 2010 and the Risk Committee on 1 September 2010.
4 Appointed to the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees on 1 March 2010.
Appointed as Chairman of the Risk Committee and to the Nomination & Governance Committee with effect from 1 September 2010.
5 Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 March 2010.
6 Appointed to the Nomination & Governance Committee on 6 May 2010.
7 Appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committe and to the Nomination & Governance Committee, and stood down from the Risk Committee, on 6 May 2010.
Numbers in brackets show the maximum number of possible meetings that each Director could have attended in 2010 including those ad hoc or called at short notice.
120 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARD COMMITTEES The table below sets out a summary of the membership and role of each of the Board Committees, along with the activities they performed during 2010.
There is a standing invitation for all Non-Executive Directors to attend Committee meetings of which they are not members.
All Committee terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and are displayed on our website, www.
Committee Chairman Membership Purpose Audit Martin Scicluna Anita Frew To monitor and review the formal Lord Leitch arrangements established by the David Roberts Board in respect of: Tim Ryan a the financial statements and Anthony Watson reporting of the Group: b internal controls and the risk management framework: c internal audit: and d the Groups relationship with its external auditors.
Nomination & Sir Winfried Bischoff Sir Julian Horn-Smith To keep the Boards governance Governance Lord Leitch arrangements under review Glen Moreno and make appropriate David Roberts recommendations to the Board Martin Scicluna to ensure that the Companys Anthony Watson arrangements are consistent with best practice corporate governance standards.
Remuneration Anthony Watson Sir Winfried Bischoff To set the principles and Sir Julian Horn-Smith parameters of remuneration Lord Leitch policy for the Group, and to David Roberts oversee remuneration policy and Tim Ryan outcomes for those colleagues specified in the terms of reference.
Risk David Roberts Sir Winfried Bischoff To review and report its Anita Frew conclusions to the Board on: Sir Julian Horn-Smith a the Groups risk appetite: and Anthony Watson b the Groups risk management Martin Scicluna framework, taking a forward looking perspective and anticipating changes in business conditions.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 121 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 2010 Activities Responsibilities reviews the financial statements assesses the external auditors reviewed and recommended to received reports from the published in the name of the independence and objectivity: the Board the Group annual and Divisional Financial Control Board and the quality and interim reports and accounts: Committees and the Group recommends the external acceptability of the related Business Risk Committee: auditors appointment, reviewed significant accounting accounting policies, practices re-appointment and removal: matters as discussed with received reports from the and financial reporting the auditors: internal audit department on reviews the results of the disclosures: internal controls, including SOX external audit and its cost reviewed the Groups position as reviews the scope of the work reports: effectiveness: a going concern: of the group audit department, reviewed the Groups key reviews reports from the auditors reviewed the appointment of reports from that department and finance programmes: on audit planning and their the auditors and approved their the adequacy of its resources: findings on accounting and remuneration: reviewed details of the Groups reviews the effectiveness of the internal control systems: and whistle blowing procedures attended six half day deep systems for internal control, risk and incidents: reviews procedures for dive sessions with each of the management and compliance handling complaints regarding divisions discussed the mis-selling of PPI: with financial services legislation accounting, internal accounting and reviewed litigation and and regulations: controls or auditing matters regulatory risks: discussed the level of approves the external auditors and for staff to raise concerns in impairments, specifically in terms of engagement and confidence.
remuneration: reviews the structure, size and oversees the annual evaluation reviewed and recommended to reviewed the Board evaluation composition of the Board: of the performance of the Board: the Board the appointment of a process and results: and new Group Chief Executive and oversees the selection process reviews the Boards governance adopted a board composition three Non-Executive Directors: for prospective Directors: arrangements: policy statement.
adopted a Board Governance makes recommendations oversees the Groups Framework and Executive to the Board on potential implementation of governance Governance Framework: appointments and rerequirements: and appointments of Directors at the reviewed the time commitment oversees the process for end of their specified term: of Board Directors: appointments of new considers Board succession: Non-Executive Directors and reviewed updates on corporate makes recommendations to governance at each meeting: the Board.
Information about the Information about the Remuneration Committees Remuneration Committees responsibilities is given in the activities during 2010 is given in Directors remuneration report on the Directors remuneration report pages 124 to 141. on pages 124 to 141. facilitates the involvement reviewed the Group reviewed the Groups funding of Non-Executive Directors consolidated risk report and plan and stress testing process: in risk issues and aids their received an update participated in deep dives in from the Chief Risk Officer at understanding of these issues: conjunction with each division each meeting: oversees adherence to Group and with members of the group risk policies and standards reviewed the risk and control risk team: frameworks: and considers any material reviewed the Groups risk amendments to them: and reviewed the Internal Capital appetite framework: and reviews the work of the Group Adequacy Assessment Process reviewed the Groups report on risk division.
122 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE BRITISH BANKERS ASSOCIATION CODE FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING DISCLOSURE In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published a Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the Disclosure Code.
The Disclosure Code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that UK banks: commit to providing high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: commit to ongoing review of, and enhancement to, their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest: will assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: will seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the UK banking sector: and will clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the Disclosure Code in their 2010 financial statements.
The Groups 2010 financial statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the Disclosure Codes principles.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board of Directors is responsible for the establishment and review of the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations, quality of internal and external reporting, internal control, and compliance with laws and regulations.
It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material loss.
The Directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across all areas of operation.
This is communicated to all employees by way of published policies and procedures and regular management briefings.
A requirement to comply with internal control risk policies is a key component of individual staff objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
Key business risks are identified, and these are controlled by means of procedures such as physical controls, credit, trading and other authorisation limits and segregation of duties.
In addition, there is an annual control self assessment exercise whereby the key businesses and head office functions review specific controls and attest to the accuracy of their assessments.
The assessment covers all enterprise-wide risk management categories and is in accordance with the principles of the Code.
As in previous years, this exercise was completed for the year ended 31 December 2010.
All returns have been satisfactorily completed and appropriately certified.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken around the Group by group risk and group audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Companys auditors,  LLP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is given within the risk management report on pages 65 to 108.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 123 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE AND REMUNERATION Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of auditors for non-audit services.
This policy sets out the nature of work the external auditors may not undertake, which includes work which will ultimately be subject to external audit, internal audit services and secondments to senior management positions in the Group that involve decision-making.
It also includes the Groups policy on hiring former external audit staff.
For those services that are deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out the approval process that must be followed for each type of assignment.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee must be consulted regarding potential instructions in respect of allowable non-audit services with a value above defined fee limits.
Each year the Audit Committee establishes a limit on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit services and monitors quarterly the amounts paid to the auditors in this regard.
The external auditors also report regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
This includes the rotation of key members of the audit team.
Total auditor remuneration analysed between audit and other services is shown in note 11 to the financial statements on page 177.
The Audit Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and will periodically continue to do so.
The Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to require an independent tender process.
STATUTORY AND REGULATORY DISCLOSURES Information that is required to be disclosed in the corporate governance report under the Companies Act 2006 and the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency rules can be found in the Directors report, on the Shareholder information page and in the share capital note.
