Governance Corporate Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc and its subsidiaries are committed to high standards of corporate governance and business integrity in all their activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2010 the Company has complied with all provisions of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance Role of the Board in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
and is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in strategic objectives and for delivering sustainable shareholder the UK to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, value.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters how they have applied its main principles and whether they have specifically reserved to it including: complied with its provisions throughout the year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide Establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Corporate an explanation for this.
Further information on the Combined strategy: Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, The annual budget: at www.
This Corporate Governance Report forms part Increases or significant variations in the terms of borrowing of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 55 to 56 of the facilities: Directors Report.
Committing to major capital expenditure or acquisitions: and Dividend policy.
Board of Directors Changes to the Board The Board also views the brands and reputations as regulated Dame Clara Furse stepped down as CEO in May 2009 and entities of its direct and indirect subsidiaries as important assets from the Board on 15 July 2009.
Massimo Capuano stepped down of the Group.
Protection of brand and reputation are key parts of from the Board of the Company with effect from 31 March 2010. the Boards role.
He remains a director of Borsa Italiana until 31 July 2010.
Activities in 2010 The Directors recognise that the Board includes a number of Matters considered by the Group Board during the year included: long serving Directors who have now served more than nine years.
Whilst the Board values their experience, the Board is also Reports at each meeting from the Chief Executive on mindful of the need to periodically refresh its membership.
By performance in each of the business areas, regulatory strategy, way of background, the Company faced a succession of takeover public affairs and Italian regulatory matters: offers between 2004 2007 which meant it was not appropriate to Reports at each meeting from the Chief Financial Officer on change the Board composition.
This was followed by significant the financial performance and position of the Group, investor changes to the Board in 2007 when a number of Directors left relations activity and Treasury, UK Regulatory and HR matters: and five new Directors joined following the merger with Borsa Updates from the Board Committees: Italiana.
The Company also appointed a new CEO in 2009.
Full and half year results and dividends: The Board considered that a period of stability and continuity The results of the Board Effectiveness Review: of Board membership was required.
It did not therefore make Acquisitions of MillenniumIT, including the associated further Non-Executive Director changes between 2008 2010. decisions regarding replacement of our trading systems, and Turquoise: As part of the 2010 Review of its Effectiveness, the Board Whether to establish a separate Risk Committee, where the reviewed its composition.
It engaged an independent external Board agreed that risk could continue to be dealt with by the consultant, MWM, to review existing competencies and identify Audit Committee which, going forward, would hold at least two additional skills, knowledge and experience needed at Board level meetings a year focused on risk: to take the business to its next stage of development.
Following Approval of the risk appetite for the Group and review of the interviews with each Board Director, the Board agreed a set of Group Risk Register: criteria to assist the Board in recruiting new Non-Executive Approval of Group Health and Safety policy: Directors with the assistance of the external consultant.
The Papers relating to development of various elements of the Company will therefore shortly be announcing the appointment Group strategy: of new Non-Executive Directors, with some long serving NonGroup response to various regulatory consultations: Executive Directors also stepping down over the course of the Approval of CSR strategy and Business Principles: and next 12 months.
38 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and Directors for any such liabilities in respect of which they are not separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman indemnified by the Company, and the Company, to the extent to is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board which it has indemnified the Directors.
This insurance cover will and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairmans other current be renewed on 1 June 2010.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor significant commitments are set out in his biography on page 37. insurance provides cover in the event that the Director is proved The Group Chief Executive has delegated authority from, and to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
is responsible to, the Board for managing the business with the power for further delegation in respect of matters which Board Balance and Independence are necessary for the effective running and management of There is a strong non-executive element on the Board and the business.
Non-Executive Directors provide deep corporate experience and knowledge which they apply to their understanding of the Group Board and Committee Meetings 2010 and its strategy.
Following Massimo Capuanos departure from the The Board held six scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings Board on 31 March 2010, the Board comprises 11 Directors: the and three strategy days.
The Chairman meets Non-Executive Chairman who was independent on appointment, two Executive Directors without the presence of Executive Directors on a Directors and eight independent Non-Executive Directors.
number of occasions throughout the year.
As a result of feedback in the Board Effectiveness Review, the Board has also agreed The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate a strong that ahead of each scheduled Board meeting, the Chairman range of business experience and the Board has the right mix and Non-Executive Directors will meet without the Executive of skills and experience given the size and geography of the Directors at the start of each meeting to discuss the business Group.
The Board also seeks to balance the continuity of of that meeting.
Board and The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors Strategy 1 were independent in character, that there were no relationships meetings audit remuneration nomination or circumstances which are likely to affect their independent total number of meetings judgement and no undue reliance was placed on any individual.
in the year ended 31 march 2010 11 4 6 0 Sergio Ermotti and Andrea Munari are employed by Unicredit Dr Chris Gibson-Smith 11 5 and Banca IMI respectively, both of which are shareholders of the professor Angelo tantazzi 11 4 Company and customers of the Companys Italian subsidiaries.
mr xavier Rolet 11 Their employer companies also supply banking services and mr Doug Webb 11 financial lines to the Group.
The Combined Code suggests that Baroness Janet Cohen 10 4 such a business relationship may affect independence.
However mr Sergio ermotti 9 5 the Board continue to believe that both are independent given mr oscar Fanjul 10 4 6 the significance of the customer relationships to the Group as a mr Andrea munari 10 4 whole, the fact that neither Mr Munari nor Mr Ermotti is directly mr paolo Scaroni 7 5 involved in decisions relating to the investment in the Company or banking arrangements and both demonstrate behaviours mr nigel Stapleton 7 3 indicating independence.
The Board finds their knowledge and mr Robert Webb 10 6 experience of financial markets particularly valuable.
Neither Directors who left the Board during the year has been appointed under any arrangement with their respective employers.
2 Dame Clara Furse 1 3 mr massimo Capuano 9 Janet Cohen, Oscar Fanjul, Nigel Stapleton and Robert Webb have all served on the LSEG Board since 2001.
The Combined 1 Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider when the Board considered that Board succession planning should be discussed by the Board as a whole see description under changes to the Board.
Additionally, members determining independence of a Non-Executive Director.
The of the nominations Committee have participated in interviews with non-executive Director candidates.
Board considers that an individuals independence cannot be 2 Dame Clara Furse left the Board on 15 July 2009. determined arbitrarily on the basis of a particular period of 3 massimo Capuano left the Board on 31 march 2010. service.
The Board has concluded that each of the Directors named above continue to demonstrate the characteristics of When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to independence expected by the Board.
The Board also benefit conflicts in their schedule, they receive and read papers to be from their experience and knowledge resulting from their length considered at the relevant meeting.
They have the opportunity of service.
Additionally, given the changes to the Board in recent to provide comments on the matters to be discussed to the years, in particular following the merger with Borsa Italiana, the Chairman of the meeting, in advance of the meeting.
Board considers that a period of continuity and phased changes to the composition of Non-Executive Directors is beneficial for Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from the the Company.
It is the Companys policy, in line with the Combined Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their Code, that Directors having served nine years or more will be office and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company purchased and maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2010.
This policy covers the London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 39 Governance Corporate governance Board Training Audit Committee On joining the Board, Directors are offered a tailored induction The Audit Committee is chaired by Oscar Fanjul and comprises programme covering the business of the Group, and they receive four other independent Non-Executive Directors Janet Cohen, briefings and presentations from relevant executives.
Periodically Nigel Stapleton, Angelo Tantazzi and Andrea Munari.
The the Board meets at the Groups Milan office and briefings are also Committee met four times during the year and maintains a formal given at Board meetings on particular parts of the business.
agenda which ensures that all matters for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the appropriate time.
Recent and Performance Evaluation relevant financial experience is provided by the Chairman of the The annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees Committee.
In addition the Board considers that each member of and Directors was undertaken in 2010 and was conducted by the the Committee has the skills and experience necessary to enable Group Company Secretary using a detailed questionnaire.
In the Committee to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
addition, as highlighted above, the Board carried out a review of its composition using the services of an external provider.
The The Committee normally invites the Chairman of the Board, results of the review were used to highlight areas of strength and Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, Head of weakness, assist in consideration of the future development of the Group Internal Audit and the Groups external auditor, Board and its Committees and further improve their performance.
 LLP, to attend its meetings.
As a The review also included a separate assessment of the Chairmans matter of best practice the Committee meets privately after each performance with feedback provided to the Chairman on an committee meeting with each of the external auditor and the Head individual basis.
of Group Internal Audit, both of whom have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman reports to the The results were discussed by the Board and actions agreed subsequent meeting of the Board on the Committees work.
The evaluation concluded that the Board and its Committees were working effectively.
One of the key matters Activities of the Audit Committee considered by the Board was a review of its future composition.
The Committees main responsibilities include: The Board agreed that it should recruit new Non-Executive Directors to refresh the composition of the Board and agreed the Reviewing the Groups accounting and financial reporting criteria and process for doing this.
The Board also agreed that: process and integrity of the financial statements: there should be further contact between Non-Executive Directors Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and all levels of management: there should be additional meetings and risk management systems: between the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: and talent Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups management and succession planning should be considered internal audit function: and more frequently.
Overseeing the relationship with the Groups external auditor.
Conflicts of Interest The full remit of the Committee is set out in its terms of The Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise conflicts reference, which are approved by the Board, reviewed on an of interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions ongoing basis and are available on the Companys website at as it thinks fit.
The Company has established a procedure whereby www.
com or on request from the actual and potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed Group Company Secretary.
and for the appropriate authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
The During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by as set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the following: non-conflicted Directors and in making such decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to The Groups annual and half yearly reporting including promote the Companys success.
The Board believes that during significant financial reporting judgements made by 2010 this procedure operated effectively.
Particular focus has been placed during the year under review on revenue recognition for software Board Committees projects following the acquisition of MillenniumIT, acquisition Remuneration Committee accounting including the preliminary valuation of intangibles, The Committee members as at 31 March 2010 were: Robert Webb the evaluation of goodwill for any impairment, and the Chairman, Chris Gibson-Smith who was independent on application of International Financial Reporting Standard appointment, Oscar Fanjul, Paolo Scaroni and Sergio Ermotti.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments: All members of the Committee are considered to be independent.
The revised Group risk management procedures as set out Details of the Committees remit and activities are set out in a in the section on the internal control framework.
In addition separate Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 53.
The Committee to reviewing the Group risk register arising from this process, has written terms of reference which are available from the Group each Executive Committee member also presented the risk Company Secretary or at the corporate governance section of the register and heat map for their respective division to the Companys website at www.
The Committee also agreed that at least two of its meetings a year should focus on risk: 40 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information The effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment: Annually, the external auditors are required to provide an account The remit and performance of the Groups internal audit of all relationships with the Group and assess, in their professional department: judgement, whether they are independent of the Group.
Key findings from internal audit reviews and actions taken in response by management: The Committee has updated the policy on the employment of The internal audit department annual plan: former employees of the external auditor.
The policy outlines, The external auditors report and findings from the half year inter alia, that partners involved in the audit of the Group would review and year end audit: not be employed until two years have lapsed from the end of The Groups arrangements for dealing in confidence with their involvement.
employee whistle-blowing complaints: and The revised guidance on Audit Committees issued by the The Committee reviews the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees Financial Reporting Council.
charged by the external auditors and the economic importance of our business to the external auditor.
The Committee has The Committee may obtain, at the Groups expense, legal and concluded that the fee payable in respect of audit services is other independent professional advice on any matter within its appropriate and the nature and extent of overall and non-audit terms of reference.
No such advice was sought by the Committee fees do not compromise the external auditors independence.
A breakdown of amounts paid to the external auditors is given in note 37 to the financial statements.
Auditors Independence The Committee assesses annually the independence and The Committee is satisfied that there is an appropriate framework objectivity, qualifications, expertise and resources of the Groups in place to ensure the required level of independence and external auditor.
It also reviews the effectiveness of the audit process.
objectivity, and that the external audit process remains effective.
Accordingly, the Group does not consider it necessary to tender  LLP have been the Groups auditors for the provision of audit services.
There are no contractual for many years, although they were only appointed as auditors obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external auditor of Borsa Italiana in 2008 following the merger.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Under Italian law, the auditors of regulated entities are Group and determine their remuneration will be proposed at appointed for nine years and  were the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 14 July 2010. therefore appointed as auditors of Borsa Italiana until the year ending 31 March 2016.
The auditors can be replaced after a three Nomination Committee year period, although Borsa Italiana would have to demonstrate The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2010 were: to regulators that there are valid reasons for doing so.
The Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Janet Cohen, Robert Webb, auditors must be replaced at the end of the nine year tenure Angelo Tantazzi and Paolo Scaroni.
The Committees role is to and cannot be re-appointed within three years.
review the size and structure of the Board, succession planning and to make recommendations to the Board on potential The external auditors rotate lead engagement partners at least candidates for the Board.
The Committee normally invites the every five years as required by their own rules and relevant Chief Executive to attend.
The Committee has written terms of professional standards.
In accordance with this requirement reference which are available from the Group Company Secretary  LLP appointed a new audit partner, or at the corporate governance section of the Companys website who has previously had no involvement in the audit of any Group www.
com company, to lead the annual audit for the financial year covered by these financial statements.
As described above, the Board as a whole discussed and agreed the criteria and process for the appointment of new The Committee recognises that certain work of a non-audit nature Non-Executive Directors.
Members of the Nominations is best undertaken by the external auditors and has established Committee have been involved in the process of selecting a policy governing the provision of such services to ensure that and interviewing prospective candidates.
it would not impair the external auditors independence and objectivity.
The policy permits specified compatible services, Internal Control prohibits the provision of selected other services and requires The Board has overall responsibility for the framework of risk prior approval by the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Executive governance and maintaining an adequate system of internal Officer of those services that are potentially incompatible with control which meets the Groups particular needs and risks independent external audit services where the aggregate fee to which it is exposed.
The Audit Committee assists the Board for the service is anticipated to be less than 50,000.
Above this in discharging this responsibility by reviewing and assessing level prior approval by the Audit Committee is required.
The the Groups systems of risk management and internal control.
Committee semi-annually reviews all non-audit services provided A divisional internal control and risk management certification by the external auditor to ensure compliance with the policy.
process is also performed as part of this review process.
The The policy separately considers the provision of non audit services system of controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate by other big four firms to ensure that their independence and the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only objectivity is not impaired and that they could be considered, provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material should the Group wish to change external auditors.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 41 Governance Corporate governance The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control Financial Reporting Process framework are described below: A comprehensive financial reporting and review process using a single consolidation system is in place which includes an annual Organisational structure budget approved by the Board, monthly reporting of financial and The day to day running of the Group is managed by the Executive key performance indicators, analysis of variances and corrective Committee which meets regularly, chaired by the Chief Executive action where required.
This process provides management with Officer.
This team is also responsible for recommending the appropriate and relevant financial information on which to base Company strategy to the Board and its implementation.
Key issues are reported at each Board meeting.
Clear Group is organised into a number of divisions, each comprised authorisation levels and appropriate segregation of duties are in of a number of business units.
Each division is overseen by a place.
Clearly defined guidelines have been established for all member of the Executive Committee.
Line management are investment decisions including the preparation of budgets and accountable for internal controls and risk management and appraisal and review procedures.
appropriate delegated authorities are in place, with a clear definition of those matters reserved for Executive Committee Programme and Project Governance and Board approval only.
The Group has an established project management methodology governing the projects that it undertakes.
Individual projects Policies and procedures are monitored by a project board, which includes Executive The Group has established a number of policies and procedures Committee representation where appropriate and who are which are designed to outline and enhance the system of internal accountable for project delivery.
These policies are reviewed and updated to meet report summarised by division, encompassing project status and changing business needs and are available to all employees via cost reporting, is reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee.
Regulatory Monitoring Risk management system Regulatory and compliance risks are monitored by experienced As part of an increased focus on risk management, the continuing compliance functions who work closely with the FSA and geographical expansion of the Group and changes to the executive CONSOB, the respective UK and Italian regulators.
These management team, a revised risk management framework and compliance functions are managed independently from the process has been implemented.
Underlying this process is a Board customer facing business units.
endorsed risk management policy and a risk appetite statement.
The Board has categorised the Groups risk appetite using a five Internal Audit point scale ranging from zero to high, and has established limits The Internal Audit department undertakes a risk-based audit for each risk type which have been cascaded throughout the plan which is approved by the Audit Committee with individual organisation via appropriate Group policies, delegated levels of reviews performed using a risk assessment approach.
All major authority and its internal control framework.
For example, the Group projects are audited regularly.
Group has a zero tolerance for matters such as fraud or unethical behaviour, although will tolerate a moderate amount of risk The Board confirms that it has reviewed the operation and where such risks can be quantified and managed where an effectiveness of the Groups internal controls including financial, opportunity is likely to lead to successful delivery whilst providing operational and compliance controls and risk management for the an acceptable level of return.
financial year to which these statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
No significant failings or weaknesses were Risk management is an integral part of managements agenda identified during this review and the Group remains compliant and business managers are responsible for risk identification, with the revised Turnbull guidance 2005. analysis, evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in their area within the framework of appetite and policy established by the Board.
Risks are identified at a business unit, divisional and Group level.
A bottom up approach is adopted initially with review and assessment by a panel of senior management and thereafter by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Executive Committee members are responsible for presenting the risk register for their respective divisions annually to the Audit Committee.
Divisional registers are consolidated into a Group Risk Register which is discussed and agreed by the Executive Committee and then presented to the Audit Committee and the Board for approval every six months.
The principal risks and uncertainties for the Group are detailed on pages 32 to 35.
42 London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 Introduction Review of the business Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Relations with Shareholders The Company runs an extensive Investor Relations IR programme, designed to ensure that shareholders and sell side analysts who produce investment research and commentary about the Group have appropriate access to information to understand the activities, performance and prospects of the Company.
The IR programme typically consists of meetings, calls, presentations and news releases throughout the year.
The IR team, which reports to the CFO, has responsibility for organising the IR programme and for day to day contact with the market.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer engage in regular dialogue with shareholders through meetings and presentations to discuss strategy and performance, and the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee are also available to meet major investors, particularly to discuss corporate governance and remuneration, as required.
Senior management and the IR team held meetings and calls with over 350 shareholders and potential investors in the UK, Europe, the Middle East and North America during the course of the past year.
The Investor Relations section of the website at www.
com is the primary source of regularly updated information about the Group.
Annual and interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, news releases, presentations at investor conferences and other key documents are archived on the website together with a summary of analysts forecast performance.
Presentations of preliminary and interim results are accessible by all shareholders via webcasts in real time and also via replay for a period after the event.
During the year the Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled meetings, including market expectations of financial performance, share register composition and feedback from major investors.
The Company also receives advice on shareholder relations and share register analysis from external advisers.
The AGM provides the opportunity for shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions to the Board.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The procedures for the AGM are compliant with the Combined Code and the event is normally attended by all Directors.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
London Stock ExchangE group AnnuAl RepoRt 2010 43
