78 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report The Chairmans review referred to 2009 10 as a period of transition focussed memberships.
However, it was considered appropriate from the financial crisis of the previous years coupled with widespread for all non-executives to continue to be members of the Nomination analysis and debate on the governance failings which had contributed Committee.
Most Board Committee meetings are scheduled around to it.
Against this background of regulatory review and reform, we Board meetings in such a way that Committee chairmen can give a have continued to strengthen and broaden the skill set and operation full and timely report to their colleagues on Committee debate and of our Board and to develop the way it governs the business and decision making and bring to the Boards attention any issues of note delivers value for shareholders.
This report outlines the work of the or concern.
Non-executive directors regularly receive all Committee Board during the year and describes how it applies the principles of papers for information, irrespective of membership.
Reports on the the Combined Code to achieve our objective of becoming a leader in work of the Audit and Risk and Nomination Committees during the risk management, governance and sustainability.
year are given on pages 83 and 84.
A separate report on the work of the Remuneration Committee and its policy and practice on executive Board composition director compensation and service contracts can be found on pages The Board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance 86 to 101.
The terms of reference of all three Board Committees are Director and six non-executive directors, biographical details of whom given on our corporate website www.
The non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent, collectively bring several Role of the Board lifetimes experience of senior roles in financial institutions to their It is vital that the key roles of a board in determining a companys stewardship of the Companys business.
Their bank of knowledge and direction, monitoring its performance, overseeing risk and discharging expertise was broadened and refreshed mid way through the year by responsibilities to stakeholders are clearly defined and understood.
the appointment of two new directors, Ruud Hendriks and Fred Jolly, To reinforce and clarify its responsibilities for strategy development, who bring extensive client development, investment management and governance and control within the business, the Board reviewed in entrepreneurial skills to the team.
The Chairman seeks to leverage the the course of the year the specific matters reserved for its decision know how and range of outlooks of all the non-executives by fostering and those it wished to delegate to the Chief Executive.
This review a climate of relaxed debate and challenge in the boardroom.
This underlined in particular the need for Board approval of any acquisitions, is built on his challenging but supportive relationship with the Chief new ventures or other business proposals which had the potential Executive which sets the tone for Board interaction and discussions.
to breach the Boards approved risk appetite or which extended materially beyond the Companys current business mandate.
Extensive Senior Independent Director supporting work on the development of the Chief Executives onward In July last year Alison Carnwath succeeded Glen Moreno as Senior delegations to management groups and individuals was completed Independent Director.
Alison is now in her tenth year of service later in the year and the revised framework for this has also been as a director and is a highly valued contributor to the Board.
She endorsed by the Board.
combines an in depth knowledge of the business and the key members of its executive team with intellectual rigour, an individual Board programme and meetings viewpoint and a challenging approach to management.
She The Board held seven main meetings during the year, of which one seeks clarification and amplification of issues and direct access was a three day visit to our business in Hong Kong and another was a to staff and advisers where required.
Serving on all the key Board one and a half day strategy session.
Committees, she has a good understanding of the workings and dynamics of the Board and is well placed to undertake the Senior The Boards practice is to hold one meeting per year at the Companys Independent Director role of intermediary between members and offices in Pfaffikon in Switzerland and at least one other at another adviser to the Chairman as well as providing an alternative channel overseas location.
Hong Kong was selected for the September 2009 of communication with shareholders.
The Board has no doubt as to visit in view of the strategic importance of Mans Asia business which the continuing independence and robustness of Alisons judgement currently accounts for over 40% of our total funds under management.
and recommends her reappointment as a non-executive director to The Boards programme included business overview and outlook shareholders for a further year.
updates from the Hong Kong, Japan, Taiwan and Australia regional teams, a presentation on investment management perspectives in Asia Board committees as a whole and the opportunity for non-executives to meet informally Until August 2009, all non-executive directors served on all three with local and visiting management.
With the appointment of two new non-executive directors, the Board was able to restructure and Full details of the number of Board and Board Committee meetings refresh its Committee memberships.
The Audit and Risk and held during the year and attendance by individual directors are given in Remuneration Committees now have differentiated and clearly the table on page 79.
79 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Directors attendance at meetings The numbers of Board and Board committee meetings held and attended by individual directors during the year were as follows: Audit & Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 6 7 3 Number of meetings attended 1 Jon Aisbitt 7 6 7 3 Alison Carnwath 7 5 7 2 2, 3 Peter Clarke 7 5 2 4 Phillip Colebatch 7 3 7 3 5 Dugald Eadie 7 6 3 3 1, 3 Kevin Hayes 7 6 4 6 Ruud Hendriks 5 5 2 6, 8 Frdric Jolly 5 4 1 2 7 Glen Moreno 2 2 2 1 5 Patrick OSullivan 7 6 3 3 1 Jon Aisbitt and Kevin Hayes are not members of the Audit & Risk Committee and attend meetings by invitation.
2 Peter Clarke is not a member of the Nomination Committee but attends some meetings by invitation.
3 Peter Clarke and Kevin Hayes are not members of the Remuneration Committee but attend parts of meetings by invitation.
4 Phillip Colebatch ceased to be a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 August 2009.
5 Dugald Eadie and Patrick OSullivan ceased to be members of the Remuneration Committee on 1 August 2009 but attended one subsequent meeting by invitation.
6 Ruud Hendriks and Frdric Jolly were appointed to the Board on 1 August 2009.
7 Glen Moreno retired from the Board on 9 July 2009.
8 Frdric Jolly attended one Remuneration Committee meeting by invitation although he is not a member of the Committee.
reviewing markets and distribution strategy.
Work of the Board The Board receives a monthly written report from the Chief Executive Issues identified for specific Board focus included the review of on business performance, developments and outlook which is the Companys capital strategy and future distribution policy.
The complemented at Board meetings by an oral update and the Nomination Committee were charged with oversight of agreed opportunity for broader discussion of sales, marketing and topical management development and succession initiatives.
The Board receives similar regular reports from the Remuneration Committee were mandated to conduct a major Finance Director on the Companys financial performance, debt, loans consultation with shareholders on the revisions to the executive director to funds and liquidity position.
Specific developments over which the compensation strategy and share plans.
In March, as part of the regular Board had oversight during 2009 10 were the transition to the new annual business planning cycle, the Board reviewed and approved the multi-manager investment management process and the creation of the annual budget and three year plan prepared by management.
new enhanced managed account platform for institutional investment.
The Board agreed certain changes to the definition of the businesss risk Board induction and development appetite, reviewed the risk profile and assumptions built into the annual To leverage their knowledge and help optimise their contribution to the update of the Companys regulatory capital model and confirmed the business, our new non-executive directors each received an extensive approach to be adopted to stress and scenario testing.
They were induction comprising an in depth introduction from the Chief Executive regularly briefed on the implications of the extensive regulatory debates followed by a series of briefings from Management Committee and initiatives which developed during the year.
They also received an members, heads of fund management, product structuring, sales update on the Companys IT strategy and infrastructure which provides and corporate management teams.
They also received an overview essential operational support for the business.
of directors duties and liabilities, the listed company and corporate governance framework and investor perceptions and expectations Strategy development from the Company Secretary and Head of External Relations.
As part The agenda for the December strategy session picked up themes of a continuing business familiarisation programme, the full Board and concerns identified by Board members in the course of the year received during the year a series of management presentations on and was firmly focussed on shaping the future profitable growth of private and institutional sales in different geographies and markets, the business.
It included a review of the current business model, the on trends in product structuring and managed accounts, and on consideration of routes to return and the optimum balance of return the operation and performance of AHL.
The effectiveness of these allocated to fund investors, employees and shareholders.
The Board sessions in terms of deepening directors understanding of the agreed a number of high level actions for execution during the year, business and their knowledge of management teams was confirmed several of which have been developed by management and are by the findings of the 2010 Board evaluation.
reported elsewhere in this document.
They included: Board evaluation progressing the options for investment in new single manager Following the full external evaluation carried out in 2009, an internal initiatives which has culminated in the proposed acquisition of GLG review based on a written questionnaire developed by the Company announced on 17 May 2010: Secretary with input from the Board was carried out in 2010.
This completing the review of fund operations and optimising the covered the operation of the Board and the Remuneration and operating model: Nomination Committees.
A separate evaluation was carried out for the promoting efficiencies through the analysis of the margin chain and Audit and Risk Committee as reported on page 84.
The review of the the rationalisation of legacy products: and 80 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued Boards collective performance focussed on the main issues identified policy is that Mrs Carnwath should absent herself from any Board for improvement in 2009 and topical governance concerns emerging discussion of the Companys relationship or dealings with MF Global from the Walker and Combined Code reviews.
It also gave ample and that she does not receive related Board papers and minutes.
This scope for free comment on any aspects of Board operation with protocol has been rigorously observed during the year.
input from the new non-executive directors being of particular interest and value.
Individual director evaluation was built on a range of self Professional advice, indemnities and insurance appraisal questions for private discussion and feedback between the There is provision for directors to take independent professional advice Chairman and individual Board members.
These sessions allowed the relating to the discharge of their responsibilities should they feel they Chairman to take soundings on Board dynamics, to mentor individual need it.
Under the Companys Articles of Association and to the extent roles as necessary and ensure that the most is made of non-executive permitted by law, directors have been granted an indemnity by the talent and time commitment.
The Senior Independent Director sought Company in respect of any third party liabilities which they incur as written comments from all Board members on the performance of the a result of holding office.
This also permits the Company to advance Chairman which were discussed with him in a private meeting.
The payment of legal costs to directors for their defence in investigations main issues identified in the collective Board evaluation were the or against legal actions.
The Company has arranged directors and need for: officers liability insurance against certain liabilities and defence costs which its indemnity does not cover.
However, neither the Companys a more concrete and structured strategic plan which brought indemnity nor directors insurance provides protection in the event of a together the various business development strategies under director being found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
discussion: further focus and execution on senior management and executive Engagement with shareholders director development and succession: and Institutional investors greater knowledge by non-executives of market competition, We undertake a comprehensive programme of meetings and broader insight into investor attitudes and more opportunities for events for institutional investors and research analysts.
In the year education and update on topical business and governance issues.
under review, this programme included over 250 investor meetings: preliminary and interim results presentations: and conference calls All these issues were presented to and considered by the Board in relating to quarterly Interim Management Statements and preMarch and a progress review will be carried out mid way through the close trading statements.
Investors and analysts also met with key financial year.
operational managers, notably to gain more insight into AHL.
Investor feedback is regularly circulated to and discussed by the Board, and Board appointments in the course of the year the Investor Relations team presented to the The process for the appointment of directors to the Board is led Board and participated in the induction programme for new nonby the Chairman and the Nomination Committee as detailed in the executive directors.
Details of executive directors service contracts are given in the Remuneration Committee report.
The terms The Chairman attends results presentations and earlier this year of non-executive directors appointments are set out in their letter of undertook a programme of meetings with institutional opinion appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that formers to supplement contact between investors and the executive all directors are subject to appointment by shareholders at the first management team.
This gave him the opportunity to listen to annual general meeting after their appointment by the Board and to investors views at first hand, and to discuss strategy and governance reappointment by shareholders thereafter at intervals of not less than with them.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has three years.
engaged with investors and shareholder representative bodies to discuss planned changes to executive remuneration arrangements.
Non-executive appointments The Senior Independent Director is always available to meet with major Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three shareholders, but has not had cause to do so during the year.
years which may be followed by a second three year term by mutual agreement.
Any extension beyond this period will be subject to Private shareholders rigorous review, taking into account the strengths and profile of We welcome and respond to enquiries from private shareholders the individual and balancing the need for continuity of knowledge throughout the year, either via our shareholder mailbox shareholder@ and experience and the refreshing of skills and outlook.
com, by letter or telephone.
We have recently updated restructuring of Committee memberships and non-executive the Shareholder Information pages of our corporate website responsibilities in the course of 2009, the opportunity was taken to www.
com which can be found under Investor update the approximate time commitments identified for individual Relations.
These cover a range of issues which may be of interest non-executive director roles and to amend directors letters of to shareholders, including dividend information, frequently asked appointment accordingly.
questions and a direct link to Shareview www.
co. uk which enables shareholders to manage many aspects of their holdings on-line.
External appointments Recognising that not all shareholders will be able to come to our Annual Directors are required to declare all their external business positions General Meeting, we have provided a special email address agm@ prior to their appointment to the Board and to keep the Board updated mangroupplc.
com for questions from those unable to attend.
In addition, the Board carries out a formal annual review of directors external business appointments Annual General Meeting and interests, giving special consideration to any which might be This years AGM will, as last year, include a detailed presentation by regarded as creating a potential conflict with the interests of the the Chief Executive on the current progress of the business and the Company.
Alison Carnwaths current directorship of MF Global, which opportunity for follow up questions on this or any of the resolutions she will relinquish in August 2010, has previously been recognised as before the meeting.
Voting on all of the resolutions will be by poll, representing a potential conflict of interest.
For this reason, the Boards allowing all shareholder votes cast, whether by proxy or by people 81 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 present at the meeting, to be taken into account.
After the meeting, Financial reporting controls shareholders will have the opportunity to talk informally to the Board The financial reporting control system operating across the and Company staff and raise any further questions or issues they Company requires certification of the key controls over the financial may have.
The outcome of the poll vote and a copy of the AGM reporting processes and certification of material income statement presentation will be posted on the Company website after the meeting.
The system focuses on the financial reporting process over the most material financial statement line items Combined Code compliance and is designed to maintain proper accounting records and provide The Company has complied throughout 2009 10 with the provisions of assurance that financial information used within the business and for the Combined Code on Corporate Governance except in the following publication is reliable.
Although there has always been a clear and effective division The Board receives reports from the Risk Assurance Committee, of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive in Finance Committee and line management on the risks to the achievement of the Groups operational and financial objectives, line with their respective roles of running the Board and the business, together with assurance that the level of risk sustained is consistent the Board has not felt it necessary to document these separate with and being managed in accordance with the Companys risk responsibilities in writing.
Objective assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal controls is provided by Internal Audit whose audit programme B.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Board is targeted on the review and investigation of key risk controls.
Further based on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
This objective assurance on the effectiveness of risk controls is provided by allows the views of the executive as well as the non-executive directors other functions, including Group Risk, Legal and Compliance.
In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board has Internal control and risk management conducted a specific year end review of the effectiveness of the The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys systems Groups system of internal control and risk management during the of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their year and for the period up to the date of this Annual Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee provides oversight review covered all controls operational, financial and compliance and independent challenge in relation to internal control and risk and risk management systems.
No significant weaknesses or material management systems.
failings in the system of internal controls were identified in this review.
Management does, however, have an ongoing process for identifying, The directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and maintaining high standards of control and a risk aware culture to continually takes actions to improve internal controls as a result of its safeguard the Companys assets, reputation and franchise.
The own initiatives and in response to reports from Internal Audit and other Companys activities are subject to high levels of regulatory oversight internal and external reviews.
in many jurisdictions and significant resources are allocated to compliance.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Boards role includes: the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted setting the Companys risk appetite and overall risk management by the European Union.
Explanations of the directors responsibilities strategy: for preparing the financial statements and the auditors responsibility developing appropriate risk management and governance for reporting on those statements are given on pages 85 and 77 systems: and respectively.
establishing and maintaining effective monitoring of internal controls systems.
The Group has considerable financial resources and as a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed to A fuller description of the Companys risk management processes, manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain together with details of the principal risks faced, is given in the Risk economic outlook.
The Groups business activities, together with Management section of this Annual Report.
These processes have factors likely to affect its future development, performance and been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this Annual position are set out in the Business Review.
The Groups capital Report and have been regularly reviewed by the Board.
position is discussed on page 34 and its liquidity position in Note 13 to the financial statements.
After making enquiries, the directors The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard assets, have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group maintain proper accounting records and provide assurance that the have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the financial information used in the business and published externally is foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The systems comply with the guidance Jon Aisbitt Rachel Rowson given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Chairman Company Secretary Combined Code the 2005 Turnbull guidance.
82 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1.
Jon Aisbitt, Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the 6.
Kevin Hayes, Finance Director Nomination Committee Kevin Hayes joined Man Group as Chief Financial Officer in March Jon Aisbitt was appointed a non-executive director in August 2003 2007 from Lehman Brothers, where he served in a variety of senior and non-executive Chairman in September 2007.
He was previously finance and strategy positions, latterly as Global Director of Process a Partner and Managing Director in the Investment Banking Division and Productivity based in New York.
He was previously a Partner in of Goldman Sachs and has 20 years experience in international the Financial Services practice of Ernst & Young LLP in New York.
was Company Secretary of Man Group from November 2007 to July 2009 and was appointed to the Board in May 2007.
Alison Carnwath, Senior Independent Non-executive Director 7.
Ruud Hendriks, Independent Non-executive Director Alison Carnwath was appointed a non-executive director in January Ruud Hendriks was appointed a non-executive director in August 2001.
Prior to joining the Board she spent 20 years working in 2009.
He was previously with Goldman Sachs Asset Management investment banking.
She is Chairman of Land Securities Group plc, an where he had been a Managing Director and Co-Head of Sales for Independent Director of MF Global Ltd, listed on the New York Stock Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Prior to this, Ruud was Global Head of Exchange, and an Independent Director of Paccar Inc. Institutional Sales for Robeco, a leading international asset manager.
Ruud is a member of the International Board of Advisors of Polaris an 3.
Peter Clarke, Chief Executive Italian based asset manager.
Peter Clarke joined Man Group in 1993 from the investment banking industry, having worked at Morgan Grenfell and Citicorp.
Frdric Jolly, Independent Non-executive Director Head of Corporate Finance & Corporate Affairs and was Company Frdric Jolly was appointed a non-executive director in August 2009.
Secretary from April 1996 to November 2007.
He was appointed to He was Chief Executive Officer of Russell Investments Europe, Middle the Board in 1997 and became Finance Director in May 2000.
Peter East and Africa until the summer of 2008.
Prior to this, Frdric was was Deputy Group Chief Executive from November 2005 until his Head of Investment Consulting at The Wyatt Company, Paris now appointment as Chief Executive in March 2007.
Frdric is a founding partner of Lexam Partners, an advisory business specialising in financial services.
Phillip Colebatch, Independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9.
Patrick OSullivan, Independent Non-executive Director and Phillip Colebatch was appointed a non-executive director in Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee September 2007.
He was previously a member of the Executive Patrick OSullivan was appointed a non-executive director in Boards of Swiss Reinsurance Company and Credit Suisse Group.
He was previously Vice Chairman of the Group He is a non-executive director of Insurance Australia Group and Lend Management Board, as well as Group Finance Director, of Zurich Lease Corporation and he is on the Boards of Trustees of the LGT Financial Services Group.
He is Chairman of Old Mutual plc and a nonGroup Foundation and the Prince of Liechtenstein Foundation.
executive director of the Bank of Ireland and COFRA Holding AG.
Member of the Nomination Committee 5.
Dugald Eadie, Independent Non-executive Director Member of the Remuneration Committee Dugald Eadie was appointed a non-executive director in January Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 2002.
He has held a number of senior executive positions in the fund management industry.
He was most recently Group Managing Director of Henderson plc until his retirement in 1999, following its acquisition by AMP.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries, and a Fellow of the UK Society of Investment Professionals.
83 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 All other aspects of the Companys annual and interim results Audit and Risk Committee report announcements and financial statements are reviewed by the Membership and role Committee shortly before their submission to the Board for approval.
The Committee currently comprises four non-executive directors as Drafts are distributed sufficiently in advance of Committee meetings detailed below.
The Chairman, Patrick OSullivan, is considered to to give directors the opportunity to raise questions with the Finance have recent and relevant financial experience.
Director and Financial Controller and for resulting changes to be addressed in good time.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman with effect from 1 August 2009 Alison Carnwath External auditors Dugald Eadie Chairman until 1 August 2009 The Committee considers the reappointment of the external auditors, Fred Jolly appointed 1 August 2009 including the rotation of audit partner, each year and also assesses their independence.
As a safeguard to help avoid the objectivity and Other directors who served on the Committee during the year were: independence of the external auditors becoming compromised, the Committee has approved a formal policy governing the engagement Phillip Colebatch until 31 July 2009 of the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This policy Glen Moreno until 9 July 2009 precludes them from providing certain services including book keeping, financial IT system design and implementation, financial The Committee met six times during the year four quarterly meetings appraisal and valuation, and internal audit work and permits other plus two special purpose meetings ahead of results announcements.
All limited services which are subject to low fee thresholds or which meetings were attended by the Chairman, Finance Director and Financial require prior approval from the Committee.
Details of fees paid to the Controller.
The external audit partner attended five meetings and the auditors for the year ended 31 March 2010 are set out in Note 6 b to Head of Group Risk attended four.
The Head of Internal Audit, who is also the financial statements.
now the Secretary to the Committee, attended all six meetings.
The Committee holds at least one private meeting with the external The role of the Committee is to: auditors each year to provide an additional opportunity for open dialogue and feedback from the Committee and the auditors without review, prior to submission to the Board, the integrity of the management being present.
Matters typically discussed include the Companys annual and interim results announcements and auditors assessment of business risks and the quality of interaction with financial statements: management.
The Chairman of the Committee meets with the external make recommendations to the Board on the appointment and audit partner prior to Committee meetings depending on the agenda.
removal of the external auditors, agree the nature and scope of their work and review the effectiveness of their audit process: Internal Audit review annually the independence of the external auditors and the The Head of Internal Audit attends all meetings of the Committee and policy on their engagement to supply non-audit services: on each occasion meets with the Chairman of the Committee ahead review and discuss with the external auditors their audit findings of the meeting.
The Committee holds at least one private meeting and recommendations and managements response: with the Head of Internal Audit each year to provide an additional review Internal Audit reports and consider managements response opportunity for open dialogue and feedback without executive to their recommendations: and management being present.
review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
Internal Audits annual plan for 2010 11 was reviewed and approved by the Committee in January.
The Committee approved an extension After each meeting the Chairman of the Committee reports to of Internal Audits scope to provide assurance to the Committee on the Board on matters discussed by the Committee and on any Internal Controls over Financial Reporting and to integrate its audit recommended actions.
work with the Groups SAS70 provider.
Results announcements and financial statements Internal Audit provides the Committee with quarterly assessment of The Committee holds meetings ahead of results announcements the effectiveness of the Groups control environment having regard to consider reports from management and the external auditors on to the Groups risk management framework.
This is supported by key areas of judgement in accounting for and disclosing the Groups reports on Internal Audits key findings in the quarter together with results and financial position.
This year these meetings took place in managements proposed actions.
Internal Audit tracks management November and March.
Topics reviewed by the Committee in these actions and verifies them when reported by management as complete.
focused meetings included impairment testing of goodwill in the MultiThe Committee receives quarterly reports on overall progress on these Manager Business: the recoverability of capitalised commission costs actions and specific reports on risks that have not been quickly or from future income on related products: the valuation of proprietary adequately mitigated.
The Committee raises any concerns on matters capital positions: and segmental reporting.
Key sensitivities behind the needing further attention with the Finance Director.
accounting judgements were discussed with the Finance Director and external auditors.
The Committee considers the effectiveness of Internal Audit annually.
This review is carried out at least every five years by an independent consultant last reviewed in 2006 and otherwise annually by internal survey.
Input is also sought from the external auditors.
84 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued Risk management Nomination Committee report The Head of Risk attends all quarterly meetings of the Committee Membership and role to report on current market conditions, the Groups risk profile and The Committee comprises all the non-executive directors and regulatory developments.
The Committee is provided with current is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Jon Aisbitt.
The Chief position and forward looking assessments of capital adequacy, Executive is invited to attend certain meetings or parts of meetings liquidity adequacy, earnings risk, credit risk, market risk and which consider senior management development and succession operational risk.
Forward looking assessments include comparison plans.
Management development and succession discussions are between the Boards risk appetite and the results of various stress test supported and attended by the Group HR Director.
The Committees focus in 2009 10 has been the impact of Secretary and Group HR Director act as Secretary to the Committee banks willingness and ability to lend to fund products, and how this at appropriate times.
affects the Groups discretionary lending to funds.
Close attention is also paid to the value at risk on proprietary positions.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: The Head of Compliance reports quarterly on emerging trends in keep under review the competencies, knowledge and experience global and local regulation and the potential impact on the Group.
of the Board in the context of the challenges facing the business The report also covers any compliance incidents and how they have and the need for Board refreshing and succession: been resolved.
develop and propose to the Board a skills, knowledge and experience specification for any new director search: Other activities direct the search and selection process and recommend to the In addition to reviewing regular reports from the Finance Director, Board the appointment of a suitable candidate: and Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Compliance and ensure there are effective senior management development and Head of Risk as part of their routine work, other matters considered by executive director succession plans in place to provide for the the Committee during the year included: continuity and availability of appropriate executive resource at and immediately below Board level.
a comprehensive review of operational risk within client service functions: Work of the Committee progress reports from Finance on Internal Controls over Financial The Committee met formally three times during the year to transact Reporting and assurance to the Committee on their effectiveness: the following business: a review by Internal Audit of the Groups arrangements for business continuity management: 1. progressing the search for and recommending to the Board a benchmarking report from the external auditors on the Finance candidates for two new non-executive appointments.
The Function: process followed by the Nomination Committee in making Board a presentation from the Head of Human Resources on his appointments involves reaching agreement with the Board on functions role in risk management: and the candidate skills and experience profile, reviewing long and plans for 2010 11 and 2011 12 for presentations from other Group short lists drawn up by executive search consultants, discussing wide functions on their risk management roles.
the selection and interview process, and receiving and evaluating feedback on the preferred candidates: Committee evaluation The Committee conducts an annual review of its performance and 2. receiving an update on the succession planning process for effectiveness.
In 2009 10 this was an internal review facilitated by senior management and reviewing in detail the succession plans the Company Secretary and the Committee Secretary based on a for individual Management Committee members.
These plans written questionnaire completed by all Board members.
The review included the identification of areas of weakness and the measures concluded that the Committee was effective in carrying out its duties proposed to strengthen them.
The Committee also had oversight and identified a number of areas for further attention and improvement of the search for candidates to fulfil any priority succession roles: in 2010 11.
These included enhancing the investment management expertise at the Committee, reviewing the time commitment required, 3. discussing executive director succession planning: and providing members with additional educational and development opportunities and further improving the quality of Committee Papers.
4. reviewing and agreeing to recommend to the Board the reappointment of Alison Carnwath and Patrick OSullivan as Patrick OSullivan non-executive directors for a further one year and three year term Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee respectively.
Nomination Committee meetings also represent a forum for informal discussion by non-executive directors without the presence of their executive colleagues and provide a useful opportunity for the sharing of non-executive viewpoints on general business issues.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman 85 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Statement of directors responsibilities Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in legislation in other jurisdictions.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 82, Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and the parent Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance company financial statements as prepared under UK GAAP give a with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company of the Group: and law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they the management report contained in the Business Review includes a are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are risks and uncertainties that it faces.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each director confirms that so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
