PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 34 Business review 34 35 Our relationships Governance Financial statements Customers and responsible gaming Other information The clear message we want all of our customers As an industry we are investigating whether or not It goes without saying that preventing crime and Whilst we have invested heavily in seeking to to understand and adhere to when playing it may be possible to prevent potential problems ensuring our systems and payments are secure is prevent customers from developing gamblingon our sites is: Know your limits.
For the vast before they manifest themselves by building a key priority for us.
With representation on the related problems, we recognise that some will slip majority of people, gaming is a source of great predictive models based on historic player Gaming Committee of the International Money through the net.
In an effort to try and help those entertainment and fun.
However, as with many behaviour.
Whether such research will ultimately Laundering Prevention Officers, Anti-Money that do, we subscribe to the Gambling Therapy other consumable products and services, for a be successful in its goal is unknown but in the Laundering Europe, the Remote Casino Working Service that helps players to obtain information very small minority, gaming can cause problems meantime our approach is to encourage players Group of the Financial Action Task Force, and about responsible gaming and to seek and we are committed to doing our part to to take control of their own gaming experience the Remote Gambling Associations RGA counselling, if required, using an online service ensure that this is kept to a minimum.
through the use of a series of responsible gaming Anti-Crime, Regulatory, International and Social that is offered in more than 20 languages.
tools that are available on all our sites.
Responsibility forums, the Group takes the issue Prevalence studies conducted in several countries We participate in several international associations of tackling crime very seriously.
in recent years show that the incidence of These include session timers, so players know how and councils that seek to promote responsible problem gambling is low, typically less than 1%.
long they have been playing, as well as tools to Once developed and approved by senior gaming issues.
In addition to being a member of However, as a responsible gaming company, our help them assess whether they may be gambling management and the Ethics Committee, the two main industry associations EGBA and the objectives are to prevent underage gambling, too much and if so, who they can talk to in order responsible gaming policies and procedures RGA we have also received accreditation for protect the vulnerable and keep out crime.
We encourage players to set are then permeated throughout the rest of the fair gaming, player protection and responsible Our philosophy is that prevention is better than deposit limits when they first join one of our sites, organisation.
All of our employees are required to operator conduct by eCOGRA, a non-profit cure and this is core to our approach to again to take control of their spending behaviour.
take regular online training for responsible gaming organisation.
It also makes good business We also have an automated self-exclusion and issues using a programme developed with We recognise that as the worlds leading listed sense by reducing fraud and preserving our account closure system so that players can GamCare, which also certifies annually that we online gaming company that is also a member reputation as a responsible operator.
choose to take a break by using an easy-to-use do what we say when it comes to responsible of the FTSE4Good Index Series of Companies, we online calendar.
With all of these tools, once a limit gaming.
Responsibility is a feature of all of Protecting children is of paramount importance.
have an important role to play in leading the has been set by a customer it cannot then be our business activities ranging from software As well as appropriate messaging on our sites and industry in this important area it is one we are countermanded no really does mean no.
development and game design, right through all our advertising, we make extensive use of thirdproud to accept.
to marketing and customer service.
party age verification tools to prevent children We know that even with such tools in place, there from playing on our gaming sites.
will be a small percentage of customers that We aim to ensure that our games do not refuse to use them and or refuse to recognise incorporate items that research indicates may We are already using the very best technology the fact that they may have a problem.
This is encourage uncontrolled gaming by customers available in this area and will continue to especially true at the far end of the spectrum and our marketing staff undertake responsible look at other solutions as more accurate and where pathological disorders may cause irrational gaming training on a regular basis.
This is in sophisticated child protection and know-yourgambling behaviour and these remain the subject addition to ensuring that our advertising complies customer technology is developed.
with local laws and also with the Advertising Code Whilst we acknowledge no system can be developed by the British Advertising Standards While the percentage of players with such guaranteed as being 100% secure, we continue Agency.
Our Know Your Limits campaign is problems is very small and the fact that the vast to strive to achieve this goal.
reinforced by our voluntary promotion of majority of our customers adopt a sensible www.
co. uk that appears on all of Responsibility is not just about customer ID and approach to gaming on our sites, complacency our UK advertising.
When it comes to responsible is not on our agenda: we remain committed to gaming, this presents a different set of challenges advising and helping customers to know and play for the Group.
Determining what player behaviour within their limits.
might constitute problem gambling is extremely As well as conducting our own extensive testing difficult.
Whilst we can see how a player behaves of all games before launch, we also engage on our sites, we do not know about their personal approved testing houses on a regular basis to circumstances, their lifestyle or income, all of ensure that our games are fair and that statistical which are important for identifying problem outcomes are as expected, in line with game gambling.
Even after years of research into the rules.
We also monitor playing behaviour, subject, the leading academics in this field cannot protecting players from anyone seeking to agree on a single definition of what is a problem gain an unfair advantage by cheating or in gambler.
contravention of our terms and conditions.
indd 34 06 05 2011 04:47 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 35 34 35 Our relationships Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Customers and responsible gaming Other information Other information The clear message we want all of our customers As an industry we are investigating whether or not It goes without saying that preventing crime and Whilst we have invested heavily in seeking to to understand and adhere to when playing it may be possible to prevent potential problems ensuring our systems and payments are secure is prevent customers from developing gamblingon our sites is: Know your limits.
indd 35 06 05 2011 04:48 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 36 36 Our relationships Employees As a pure online business, in addition to our brands We continued to run our in-house training and our technology, our people represent a key programmes which have this year been asset.
As a result, we place a premium on having accredited by the Institute of Training & highly-skilled, self-motivated and dynamic Occupational Learning ITOL giving our employees who understand what our business employees recognised certification on needs to succeed in a fast-moving and highly completion of different development competitive industry.
programmes ranging from general office skills to a senior management diploma.
Across the Group Our high expectations are matched by the we have run 780 days of training which has been potential rewards on offer for employees.
We seek to correlate closely an individuals overall remuneration package with their contribution to We also continue to ensure that as a group we the success of the Group through a mixture of are fully compliant with our regulatory training short-, mediumand long-term incentives.
and based on rolling figures to take into account These include competitive salaries, employee new starters as at the end of 2010.
A total of 95% share plans and an annual bonus scheme linked of all employees had completed our GamCare to Clean EBITDA performance.
This reward process and all of our employee Our focus on improving communication across data, is managed through Pi, the Companys the Group remains undiminished, because we Enterprise Resource Planning tool.
This provides believe that it fosters a well-motivated and transparency for managers and employees on engaged workforce and helps to ensure that the appraisal process and allows individuals to employees understand and commit to our actively participate in their own objective-setting business strategy.
and assessment, as well as identifying areas for As at 31 December 2010 2009 2008 further training and development.
Headcount 1,380 1,301 1,191 We take training and development seriously.
Male:Female 66:34 66:34 69:31 With a well-trained workforce we can exploit new Nationalities 39 34 26 systems, software and management tools to seize Voluntary staff turnover 14% 11% 21% new opportunities and guard against potential Grievances 29 12 19 competitive threats.
Redundancies 43 83 114 In 2010, we added a programme of Learning for Working hours lost to sickness 1.4% 1.7% 1.4% all employees to tap into, anytime, anywhere and anyplace.
Branded Learning Allsorts this 24 7 E-Learning solution offers a vast range of both technical and skills-based training.
Being an online business, learning using this method has become extremely popular with more than 300 days of training being undertaken by more than 750 users in the first eight months since its introduction.
Less than 100% owing to new starters and leavers.
indd 36 17 05 2011 12:11 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 37 36 37 Our relationships Our relationships Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Employees Suppliers Other information Other information As a pure online business, in addition to our brands We continued to run our in-house training The supply chain for our business is overseen by a and our technology, our people represent a key programmes which have this year been centrally-based procurement team that adheres asset.
As a result, we place a premium on having accredited by the Institute of Training & to set policies and procedures that are designed highly-skilled, self-motivated and dynamic Occupational Learning ITOL giving our to alleviate exposure to risks and to foster longemployees who understand what our business employees recognised certification on term business alliances.
Arms-length relationships needs to succeed in a fast-moving and highly completion of different development with all our suppliers is paramount to ensure the competitive industry.
programmes ranging from general office skills to a best products and services are procured at the senior management diploma.
Across the Group best prices and all our suppliers must adhere to Our high expectations are matched by the we have run 780 days of training which has been the Groups procurement policy.
potential rewards on offer for employees.
We seek to correlate closely an individuals overall Our Enterprise Resource Planning system governs remuneration package with their contribution to We also continue to ensure that as a group we each stage of the supply chain and we have a the success of the Group through a mixture of are fully compliant with our regulatory training preferred list of significant suppliers covering a short-, mediumand long-term incentives.
and based on rolling figures to take into account wide range of goods and services.
New suppliers These include competitive salaries, employee new starters as at the end of 2010.
A total of 95% have to undergo a competitive tender process share plans and an annual bonus scheme linked of all employees had completed our GamCare and have their financial strength, quality control to Clean EBITDA performance.
This reward process and all of our employee Our focus on improving communication across Excluding more than 5,200 unique active suppliers data, is managed through Pi, the Companys the Group remains undiminished, because we that constitute our affiliate network, in 2010 we Enterprise Resource Planning tool.
This provides believe that it fosters a well-motivated and used more than 1,650 suppliers for a wide range transparency for managers and employees on engaged workforce and helps to ensure that of goods and services, up from around 1,050 the the appraisal process and allows individuals to employees understand and commit to our year before.
In terms of financial value, our largest actively participate in their own objective-setting business strategy.
supplier provided 5.4m of goods and services to and assessment, as well as identifying areas for us during the year and there were 13 other As at 31 December 2010 2009 2008 further training and development.
companies that were paid over 1.5m in 2010.
Headcount 1,380 1,301 1,191 The wide range of goods and services provided We take training and development seriously.
Male:Female 66:34 66:34 69:31 by our key suppliers includes broadband and With a well-trained workforce we can exploit new Nationalities 39 34 26 other telephony services, creative design, systems, software and management tools to seize Voluntary staff computer hardware and software, advertising, turnover 14% 11% 21% new opportunities and guard against potential marketing agencies, affiliates and media buyers.
Redundancies 43 83 114 We take pride in ensuring that we settle invoices In 2010, we added a programme of Learning for Working hours lost promptly, taking an average of 15 days to pay for to sickness 1.4% 1.7% 1.4% all employees to tap into, anytime, anywhere and trade purchases in 2010 compared with 30 days anyplace.
Branded Learning Allsorts this 24 7 in 2009.
E-Learning solution offers a vast range of both technical and skills-based training.
indd 37 06 05 2011 04:48 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview 38 Business review 38 39 Our relationships Our relationships Governance Financial statements Environment and community Shareholders and other providers Other information of capital While we are a low impact company compared As an employer with several offices around the Since becoming listed on the London Stock to many other corporations, we are committed to world we also seek to put something back into the Exchanges Main Market on 30 June 2005, minimising our environmental impact by reducing local communities where we have operations PartyGaming has built strong and lasting our consumption of utilities, materials and travel by through a combination of both pro bono activities relationships with many investors and other employees.
Measures undertaken in our offices by our staff as well as through philanthropic providers of capital through a process of open include high efficiency servers, switching off contributions.
access to our senior management team and a air-conditioning outside of normal office hours, high level of transparency, especially with regards The Groups philosophy on putting something using energy efficient light sources and ensuring to financial disclosure.
back into the community has been fully computer and electrical equipment is switched embraced by our staff.
More than 46% of our Our half-year and full-year financial results, as well off when not in use.
workforce participated in pro bono activities as our quarterly Key Performance Indicators and We maintain a tight rein on employee travel.
This impressive Interim Management Statements, help to keep All travel by air or rail is recorded and has to be achievement has been fostered by our policy to analysts and investors informed about our trading approved by executive management.
Greater enable employees to spend between 48 hours performance and operational developments.
use of video conferencing facilities between of Company time on charitable, community or Besides these updates and the information offices benefits the environment, our finances and environmental projects so that they can enhance contained on our corporate website and in also productivity by reduced travel time.
We do their personal development whilst returning other published documents, we have established not have a company car scheme and staff use something to our local communities.
a regular communication programme of facepublic transport whenever possible.
The Group allocates between 0.2% and 0.25% to-face meetings, webcasts, conferences and In 2010, our head office in Gibraltar achieved of the prior years Clean EBITDA towards worthy conference calls with shareholders, investors recertification for the international standards in causes.
We donated 212,690 to charities in and other stakeholders.
This is complemented Health and Safety OHSAS 18001: 2007 and 2010, of which 134,000 went to organisations by analyst research from several leading financial Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001: associated with problem gambling including the institutions, each of which contribute to an 2004, which help us monitor and improve our Gambling Research, Education and Treatment independent analysis of all market forecasts for environmental performance that includes Foundation in the UK, Gambling Therapy Services, the Group.
A summary of this analysis is regularly recycling a broad range of materials wherever an industry-wide project that provides counselling updated and made available on the Groups practicable and encouraging employees to save services in 22 different languages for problem website at www.
paper by printing documents in black and white, gamblers, and Adictel in France.
double-sided or preferably not at all.
All of our other offices are in the process of being independently assessed to the same standards.
indd 38 06 05 2011 04:48 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 O Ov five errv viie ew w B Bu us siin ne es ss s rre ev viie ew w 39 38 39 Our relationships Our relationships Governance Governance Financial statements Financial statements Environment and community Shareholders and other providers Other information Other information of capital While we are a low impact company compared As an employer with several offices around the Since becoming listed on the London Stock to many other corporations, we are committed to world we also seek to put something back into the Exchanges Main Market on 30 June 2005, minimising our environmental impact by reducing local communities where we have operations PartyGaming has built strong and lasting our consumption of utilities, materials and travel by through a combination of both pro bono activities relationships with many investors and other employees.
