22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued It is proposed in resolution 12 to approve an increase Manager has authority.
This includes management in the aggregate per annum that the directors may be of the Companys assets and the provision of paid.
accounting, company secretarial, administration, and some marketing services.
The Company A copy of the New Articles will be available for delegates responsibility for voting investee shares inspection at the offices of Dickson Minto W. S. Royal to JPMAM.
Details of JPMAMs Voting Policy and London House, 22 25 Finsbury Square, London Corporate Governance Guidelines including Social EC2A 1DX during normal business hours on any and Environmental Policy are available from weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays JPMAM on request or can be accessed at excepted from the date of the notice of the AGM until www.
the conclusion of the AGM and on the date of the AGM Within the Commentary & Analysis tab there is a at the AGM from 15 minutes prior to the AGM until the section on Corporate Governance.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the A summary of the material changes proposed to be Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the brought about by the adoption of the New Articles is Board for decision has been approved.
This includes set out in the Appendix to the Notice of the AGM on determination and monitoring of the Companys page 54. investment objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing policy, management of Recommendation the capital structure, appointment and removal of The Board considers resolutions 8-12 are likely to third party service providers, review of key promote the success of the Company and are in the investment and financial data and the Companys best interests of the Company and its shareholders as corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they intend The Board has procedures in place to deal with to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings potential conflicts of interest and confirms that the which amount in aggregate to 77,100 shares procedures have operated effectively during the year representing approximately 0.07% of the existing under review.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
The The Board meets at least quarterly during the year full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Corporate Governance Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take corporate governance.
This statement, together with independent professional advice if necessary and at the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the page 27, indicates how the Company has applied the access that every Director has to the advice and principles of good governance of the Financial services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is Reporting Council 2008 Combined Code the responsible to the Board for ensuring that applicable Combined Code and the AICs Code of Corporate rules and regulations are complied with and that Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the Board procedures are followed.
Combined Code and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Board Composition The Board consists of six non-executive Directors, all The Board is responsible for ensuring the of whom are regarded by the Board as independent, appropriate level of Corporate Governance and including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth considers that the Company has complied with the of investment, business and financial skills and best practice provisions of the Combined Code, other experience relevant to the Companys business and than in respect of the provision relating to the brief biographical details of each Director are set out appointment of a senior independent director, and on page 16. the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
A review of Board composition and balance is Role of the Board included as part of the annual performance A management agreement between the Company evaluation of the Board.
The Board has considered and JPMAM sets out the matters over which the whether a senior independent director should be The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23 appointed and has concluded that, as the Board Training and Appraisal consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is On appointment, the Manager and Company unnecessary.
Secretary provide all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular briefings are provided on Tenure changes in regulatory requirements that affect the Directors are initially appointed until the following Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys attend industry and other seminars covering issues Articles of Association, it is required that they be and developments relevant to investment trusts.
Thereafter, a Directors The Board has undertaken an evaluation of the appointment will run for a term of three years.
Manager, its own performance and that of its Subject to the performance evaluation carried out committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation each year, the Board will agree whether it is of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and appropriate for the Director to seek an additional another Director leads the evaluation of the term.
Any Director who has served for a period of Chairmans performance.
The Board as a whole more than nine years will submit himself for annual evaluates the Manager, its own performance and that re-election thereafter.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal letters of appointment, copies Board Committees of which are available for inspection on request at Nomination Committee the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Leslie Melville, consists of all the Directors and meets at The Board recommends the re-election of Hamish least annually to ensure that the Board has an Leslie Melville, Sandy Nairn and Ian Russell who retire appropriate balance of skills to carry out its fiduciary by rotation at this years AGM.
The Board recommends duties and to select and propose suitable candidates the election of Sir Richard Beckett, who was appointed when necessary for appointment.
The Committee undertakes an annual performance Meetings and Committees evaluation, as described above, to ensure that all The Board delegates certain responsibilities and members of the Board have devoted sufficient time functions to committees.
Details of membership of and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
committees are shown with the Directors profiles on The Committee also reviews Directors fees and page 16.
Directors who are not members of makes recommendations to the Board as and when Committees may attend at the invitation of the appropriate.
Audit Committee The table below details the number of Board, Audit The Audit Committee, chaired by Ian Russell, consists Committee and Nomination Committee meetings of all the Directors other than the Chairman and attended by each Director.
During the year there meets at least twice each year.
The members of the were seven Board meetings, two Audit Committee Committee consider that they have the requisite meetings and two Nomination Committee meeting.
skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of Audit Nomination the Committee.
Board Committee Committee The Committee reviews the actions and judgements Meetings Meetings Meetings of the Manager in relation to the half year and Director Attended Attended Attended annual accounts and the Companys compliance with Hamish Leslie Melville 7 2 2 the Combined Code.
It reviews the terms of the Sir Richard Beckett 2 1 1 management agreement and examines the The Right Hon.
effectiveness of the Companys internal control The Earl of Halifax 7 2 2 systems, receives information from the Managers 1 Richard Hambro Compliance department and reviews the scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness, Sandy Nairn 6 1 2 the balance of audit and non-audit services, and the Charles Peel 6 2 1 independence and objectivity of the external Ian Russell 6 2 1 auditors.
In order to safeguard the Auditors Attended by invitation 1 objectivity and independence, any significant Died on 25th April 2009 24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report continued non-audit services are carried out through a partner Internal Control other than the audit engagement partner.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least Representatives of the Companys auditors attend the annually, to review the effectiveness of the Committee meeting at which the draft annual report Companys system of internal control and to report and accounts are considered.
The Directors to shareholders that they have done so.
This statement on the Companys system of internal encompasses a review of all controls, which the control is set out later on this page.
Board has identified as including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have written terms of reference which The Directors are responsible for the Companys define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies system of internal control which is designed to of which are available for inspection on request at safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper the Companys registered office and at the accounting records and ensure that financial Companys AGM.
information used within the business, or published, is reliable.
However, such a system can only be Relations with Shareholders designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile failure to achieve business objectives and therefore of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, a full understanding of the Companys activities and assurance against fraud, material mis-statement or performance and reports formally to shareholders loss.
four times a year by way of the Annual Report and Since investment management, custody of assets and Accounts, Half Year Financial Report and two Interim all administrative services are provided to the Management Statements.
This is supplemented by Company by JPMAM and its associates, the the daily publication, through the London Stock Companys system of internal control mainly consists Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys of monitoring the services provided by JPMAM and shares.
its associates, including the operating controls All shareholders have the opportunity, and are established by them, to ensure they meet the encouraged, to attend the Companys Annual General Companys business objectives.
The Company does Meeting at which the Directors and representatives not have an internal audit function of its own, but of the Manager are available in person to meet with relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
In addition, a This arrangement is kept under annual review.
The presentation is given by the Investment Managers key elements designed to provide effective internal who review the Companys performance.
During the control are as follows: year the Companys brokers and the Investment Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive Managers hold regular discussions with larger review by the Board of key investment and financial shareholders.
The Directors are made fully aware data, including management accounts, revenue of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make projections, analysis of transactions and performance themselves available as and when required to comparisons.
The Directors may be contacted through the Company Secretary whose Management Agreement Appointment of a manager details are shown on page 57. and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is defined in a written agreement.
published in time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Management Systems The Managers system of Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise questions in internal control includes organisational agreements advance of the meeting are encouraged to write to which clearly define the lines of responsibility, the Company Secretary at the address shown on delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance Details of the proxy voting position on each with FSA rules.
resolution will be published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual General Meeting.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Board.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: reviews the terms of the management agreement and receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase & Co. which is itself independently reviewed: and the Directors review on a regular basis an independent report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control for the year ended 31st January 2010, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
By order of the Board Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 31st March 2010 Copies of the Combined Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations' websites: www.
