Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 45 Governance Report of the Audit Committee External audit This report sets out the membership, purposes and activities of the Audit Committee of Cable & Wireless Communications KPMG Audit Plc KPMG has been appointed as auditor of the Company during the year and has also acted as auditor of Cable and Plc.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Corporate governance report on pages 43 to 44.
The Committee will evaluate KPMGs tenure to demerger, the Audit Committee appointed by Cable and annually and is not restricted by any contractual obligations in its Wireless plc was in place, the activities of which are covered choice of auditors.
The Board has accepted the Committees at the end of the report.
recommendation that KPMG should be reappointed for 2010 11.
This recommendation was based on a detailed review of the Membership and terms of reference 2008 09 audit of Cable and Wireless plc which demonstrated The members of the Audit Committee the Committee consist overall satisfaction with the performance of KPMG as external solely of the Non-executive Directors: Simon Ball Committee auditor.
The review included a survey of Committee members and Chairman, Mary Francis, Kate Nealon and Kasper Rorsted.
key personnel involved in the audit, discussions with KPMG, senior management and Internal Audit, as well as an analysis of KPMGs The terms of reference of the Audit Committee cover such issues as capabilities and independence.
monitoring the effectiveness of internal control, internal audit and risk management systems, providing accurate financial reporting The audit engagement partner responsible for the 2009 10 audit and overseeing, reviewing and monitoring managements conduct was assigned on 19 March 2010. and reporting of effective risk management.
The terms of reference The Committee has established a policy to maintain the also set out the authority of the Committee to carry out its duties.
independence of the external auditor and its personnel, governing The Committee undertook a review of its objectives and terms of the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the reference during the period.
The policy clearly identifies permitted The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed Controller and Head of Internal Audit are also invited to attend all for the approval of all audit and non-audit services.
In May and November when the full year and with an expected fee in excess of US$400,000 require the prior half year results are considered, the Chairman and Executive approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Directors are invited to attend.
For the year ended 31 March 2010 the Cable and Wireless plc The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Audit Audit Committee approved fees for audit services of US$3.2 million Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and is together with fees for audit-related regulatory reporting of US$0.5 confident that the collective experience of the members enables million and non-audit work of US$10.0 million.
The nature of the them to act as an effective Audit Committee.
services provided is set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chairman in appointment of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor.
At each scheduled meeting the Committee Cable and Wireless plc Audit Committee receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditor The members of the Cable and Wireless plc Audit Committee were: and the Head of Internal Audit together with biannual litigation Kasper Rorsted Committee Chairman, Simon Ball, John Barton, reports.
One meeting was held during the period at which all Clive Butler, Mary Francis from 17 July 2009, Penny Hughes from Committee members were present.
In 2010 11, the Committee 17 July 2009, Kate Nealon and Agns Touraine until 19 May 2009. expects to consider business consistent with that of the Audit Committee of Cable and Wireless plc see section below.
During the period prior to demerger, the Committee considered the business set out below, making recommendations to the Board Disclosure Committee where appropriate: To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for Preliminary results and press release for the year ended 31 March identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with 2009: the 2008 09 Annual Report together with the Directors the preparation of all market releases containing material financial statement on compliance with Turnbull guidance on internal information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This controls and risk management: Committee comprises senior management from finance, legal, Interim results and press release for the six months ended company secretarial and external affairs.
30 September 2009: During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure Review of risk management within the Group: Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the Review of the Groups insurance cover: documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Effectiveness review of the internal and external auditors: Self-evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee: Internal audit Review of the Groups accounting and tax policies: and The Internal Audit function, led by the Head of Internal Audit, is Review of key corporate governance developments.
supported by a team of auditors based in the UK and Jamaica.
The function has a formal charter approved by the Board that describes Meetings its purpose, authority and responsibility.
Its audit plan is approved The Audit Committees held six scheduled meetings during the year by the Audit Committee annually.
Details of the number of meetings of both Audit Committees and individual attendance at the meetings by members are shown in the tables on pages 43 and 44.
Simon Ball Chairman, Audit Committee 26 May 2010
