Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 43 Governance Corporate governance report Our Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate Board meeting attendance governance and is committed to maintaining high standards.
Cable & Wireless Communications Plc Prior to the Scheme of Arrangement the system of corporate Period covered: 19 March 2010 31 March 2010 governance was ultimately the responsibility of the Board of Audit Remuneration Nominations Cable and Wireless plc.
Subsequent to the Scheme of Board Committee Committee Committee Arrangement it became the responsibility of the Board of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
The Board confirms Chairman Sir Richard Lapthorne 1 1 0 0 that the Group has complied with all provisions set out in Section One of the Combined Code the Code during the Executive Directors period under review.
George Battersby 1 1 Nick Cooper 1 1 In preparation for the Companys listing following the Scheme of Tim Pennington 1 1 Arrangement, and the demerger of the Cable & Wireless Worldwide Tony Rice 1 1 business, a full review of corporate governance arrangements was undertaken.
These arrangements were summarised in the Non-executive Directors prospectus relating to the Companys listing published on Simon Ball 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 2 February 2010 the Prospectus.
Mary Francis 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Kate Nealon 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 Going forward, Cable & Wireless Communications intends to comply fully with the main and supporting principles of the Code except in Kasper Rorsted 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 relation to the following requirement.
Director is not a Committee member.
7.1 of the Code provides that all Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting Role of the Board after their appointment.
The Articles provide that, at the first The Board of Cable & Wireless Communications sets the strategic two Annual General Meetings following the demerger, one third aims of the Group and is collectively responsible for matters of of the Directors shall retire from office but shall be eligible for strategy, performance, resources, standards of conduct and re-appointment.
This provision was included in the Articles as accountability.
a result of the demerger to provide an even spread of Director Matters reserved for the Board include: Group strategy: corporate re-appointments and hence not all Directors are standing for governance: financial reporting and control: budgets and operating re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
plans: acquisitions and disposals: appointments to the Board, The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website Committees and some senior executive positions: Director and www.
uk senior executive remuneration: delegation of authority: and customer contracts and expenditure over a certain financial limit.
Our key policies and practices are set out in this governance report Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees, as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on page 45 and each with clearly defined terms of reference.
Remuneration Committee on pages 46 to 58.
Furthermore, our Independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms describing the corporate governance and behaviours of the Board of reference of its Committees can be found on our website at on page 42.
Together, these reports provide shareholders with an www.
com insight into how our Board and senior management run the business The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and to increase shareholder value.
Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board meetings and full and timely information is provided to all Board and Committee members Board composition and attendance prior to meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board Our Board comprises the Chairman, four Executive Directors and and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each four Non-executive Directors, including the Senior Independent Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular Director.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
Committee memberships, are shown on pages 36 and 37.
During the period from incorporation to 31 March 2010, as for The Board considers the Companys Non-executive Directors previous years, there were no such objections.
Similarly, in the to be independent in character and judgement.
Collectively, our period prior to demerger, there were no such objections to proposals Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and business put to the Cable and Wireless plc Board.
experience to the Company as they all occupy or have occupied Separate schedules of reserved matters have been adopted by senior positions in industry and public life and, as such, each the Board.
contributes significant weight to Board decisions.
The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Directors, together with service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for inspection by shareholders at our registered office during normal business hours and at our AGM.
Post demerger, the Board held one scheduled meeting.
Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings are shown in the following table.
44 Corporate governance report The Senior Independent Director Performance Evaluation Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
Prior The Chairman led an in-house performance evaluation of the Board to demerger Clive Butler was the Senior Independent Director for of Cable and Wireless plc in the form of a detailed questionnaire in Cable and Wireless plc.
The Senior Independent Director is available May 2009.
The findings were collated by the Company Secretary to meet shareholders on request and is the designated point of and presented to the entire Board of Cable and Wireless plc for contact for shareholders to raise any concerns where contact consideration.
In the period to demerger, the Non-executive through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors Directors again met privately, both with and without the Chairman is inappropriate.
present, to consider management performance and succession issues.
The Non-executive Directors of Cable and Wireless plc also As part of our ongoing commitment to regular dialogue with our appraised the Chairmans performance and carefully reviewed the investors, the Senior Independent Director prior to demerger, along relationship between the Chairman and the Executive Directors to with the Chairman, attended several meetings with investment and ensure that the Board structure and relationships continued to corporate governance managers.
The Company intends to continue promote the creation of shareholder value.
Cable and Wireless plc Board meeting attendance Committees of the Board Period covered: 1 April 2009 19 March 2010 Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is composed entirely of Non-executive Directors.
The reports of the Audit Remuneration Nominations Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are set out on pages Board Committee Committee Committee 45 and 46 to 58 respectively.
Chairman The Chair of the Nominations Committee is Sir Richard Lapthorne.
Sir Richard Lapthorne 9 9 4 4 This Committee did not meet in the period 19 March 2010 to Executive Directors 31 March 2010.
The Nominations Committee is principally George Battersby 9 9 responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board, including 1 Jim Marsh 2 2 the range and experience of its members, its structure and its size, Tim Pennington 9 9 as well as succession planning.
2 John Pluthero 9 9 Tony Rice 9 9 The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available at www.
com Non-executive Directors Simon Ball 9 9 5 5 7 7 Formal procedures are in place for the nomination, selection, 2 training and evaluation of Directors as well as succession planning.
In John Barton 7 9 3 5 5 7 2 Clive Butler 9 9 5 5 7 7 4 4 accordance with these procedures, and with the advice of external recruitment consultants, the following changes to the Cable and Mary Francis 7 7 2 3 5 5 2 Penny Hughes 7 7 3 3 5 5 Wireless plc Board were made at the recommendation of the Nominations Committee: Kate Nealon 9 9 5 5 7 7 4 4 Kasper Rorsted 8 9 4 5 5 7 2 4 Mary Francis and Penny Hughes were appointed as Non-executive 3 Agns Touraine 1 1 1 1 1 1 Directors on 1 July 2009: and Jim Marsh was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 January Director is not a Committee member.
1 Jim Marsh was appointed on 1 January 2010 and resigned from the Board on 2010.
26 March 2010 as a consequence of demerger.
2 Resigned from the Board as a consequence of the demerger on 26 March 2010.
On 25 January 2010, Sir Richard Lapthorne, George Battersby, 3 Resigned from the Board on 19 May 2009.
Nick Cooper, Tim Pennington, Tony Rice, Simon Ball, Mary Francis, Kate Nealon and Kasper Rorsted were appointed to the Board of The Board held nine scheduled meetings of Cable and Wireless plc Cable & Wireless Communications Plc.
In addition, other meetings were held at short Prior to demerger the Cable and Wireless plc Nominations notice to consider matters that could not be held over until the Committee, chaired by Clive Butler Senior Independent Director, next scheduled Board meeting.
Details of Directors attendance met on four occasions during the year to review the composition of at scheduled Board and Committee meetings are shown in the the Board, including the range and experience of its members, its table above.
In view of the demerger, the Nominations By order of the Board Committee of Cable and Wireless plc discussed and agreed the composition of the Companys Board.
Clare Underwood Company Secretary Induction and professional development 26 May 2010 The induction of new Board members is undertaken by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who retains responsibility for the induction process.
It includes meetings with senior management and meetings with major shareholders may be arranged on request.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary as well as appropriate training and briefings.
Additionally, any Director may take independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
