40 GOVERNANCE CORpORATE GOVERNANCE REpORT Our Board is committed to maintaining high standards of Cable and Wireless plc board and committee meeting attendance corporate governance, responsibility and risk management.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Our key policies and practices are set out in this governance report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 42 Chairman and 43 and Remuneration Committee on pages 44 to 55.
Together John Pluthero 9 9 these reports provide shareholders with an insight into how our Executive Director Board and senior management run the business.
1 Jim Marsh 2 2 The disclosures that fulfil the requirements of a corporate Non-executive Directors governance report under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules John Barton 7 9 3 5 5 7 are contained in the Directors report in the sections headed Clive Butler 9 9 5 5 7 7 4 4 Share capital and treasury shares, Companys shareholders, 2 Penny Hughes 7 7 3 3 5 5 Appointment and replacement of Directors and Powers of Director is not a Committee member.
Directors on pages 35 to 39 and are incorporated into this 1 Jim Marsh was appointed to the board on 1 January 2010. corporate governance statement by reference.
2 Penny Hughes was appointed to the board on 1 July 2009 and to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 17 July 2009.
Board composition and attendance At 31 March 2010 our Board comprised the Chairman, one For the purposes of the Demerger, the Board met on Executive Director and three Non-executive Directors, including three occasions during the period under review.
Details of the Senior Independent Director, all of whom were former Directors attendance at scheduled board and committee directors of Cable and Wireless plc.
Biographies of the meetings are shown in the table below: Directors, including details of their committee memberships, are Cable&Wireless Worldwide Board and shown on pages 32 to 33.
In May 2010 the Board increased to committee meeting attendance six members when Tim Weller joined as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Half of the Board are Non-executive Directors, all of whom the Chairman Board consider to be independent in character and judgement.
John Pluthero 3 3 None Collectively, our Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of skills and business experience to Cable&Wireless Worldwide Executive Director and their contribution to Board decision-making is a Jim Marsh 3 3 considerable factor in achieving our strategic aims.
Non-executive Directors The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a John Barton 3 3 1 1 1 1 None three year term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Clive Butler 3 3 1 1 1 1 None the Non-executive Directors, together with service contracts Penny Hughes 3 3 1 1 1 1 None for Executive Directors, are available for inspection by Director is not a Committee member.
shareholders at our registered office during normal business hours and at our AGM.
Role of the Board The Board of Cable&Wireless Worldwide sets the strategic The Cable and Wireless plc board held nine scheduled aims of the Group and is collectively responsible for matters meetings during 2009 10.
In addition, other meetings were of strategy, performance, resources, standards of conduct held at short notice to consider matters which could not be and accountability.
held over until the next scheduled board meeting.
Details of Directors attendance at scheduled board and committee Matters reserved for the Board include: Group strategy: meetings are shown in the table below.
corporate governance: financial reporting and controls: budgets and operating plans: acquisitions and disposals: appointments to the Board, Committees and some senior executive positions: Director and senior executive remuneration: delegation of authority: customer contracts: and expenditure over a certain financial limit.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference.
Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of reference of its Committees can be found on our website at www.
The Chairman, in consultation with the Company Secretary and Executive Directors, sets the agenda for Board meetings and full and timely information is provided to all Board and Committee members prior to meetings.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 41 If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded between the Chairman and the Executive Directors to in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
During the year ended ensure that the Board structure and relationships continue 31 March 2010 there were no such objections.
to promote the creation of shareholder value.
Jim Marsh, as Chief Executive Officer of Cable&Wireless Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Worldwide, has overall responsibility for the day-to-day Governance the Code management of the business.
The Board is committed to ensuring the highest standards of corporate governance are maintained and that the Company The Senior Independent Director complies with the Code.
A full version of the Code can John Barton was appointed Senior Independent Director on be found at www.
The Board confirms that the 26 March 2010.
The Senior Independent Director is available Company has, throughout the period under review, complied to meet shareholders on request and is the designated point with all provisions set out in Section One of the Code except of contact for shareholders to raise any concerns where as set out below: contact through the normal channels of the Chairman or Executive Directors has failed to resolve or where contact A.
2.2 of the Code provides that the chairman should on is inappropriate.
appointment meet certain independence criteria.
John Pluthero, the Chairman of Cable&Wireless Worldwide, is not In fulfilment of the obligations under the Combined Code, the treated as independent as he was, when originally appointed Chairman or as appropriate the Senior Independent Director to the board of Cable and Wireless plc, an executive and other Directors will maintain sufficient contact with major director.
The Board has considered this carefully but, given shareholders to understand their issues and concerns and his role prior to the Demerger as Executive Chairman of give feedback to the Board on any matters raised.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide and the nature and importance Committees of the Board of his contribution to Cable&Wireless Worldwide, the Board Membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees is believes that his appointment as Chairman is in the best entirely composed of Non-executive Directors.
The reports interests of Cable&Wireless Worldwide and its shareholders of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee are as a whole notwithstanding his previous executive role.
set out on pages 42 and 43 and 44 to 55 respectively.
Whilst the Board is satisfied that he will bring independence of judgement to the Board, Cable&Wireless Worldwide is A Nomination Committee has been established by also confident that John Barton as Senior Independent Cable&Wireless Worldwide.
It is chaired by John Pluthero and Director and Deputy Chairman will, with the other Nonthe other members are John Barton, Penny Hughes and Clive executive Directors, provide a strong and clearly independent Butler.
John Pluthero will not chair any meeting at which his perspective for the Board which will complement the own successor as Chairman is under review: such meetings experience of John Pluthero as well as Jim Marsh, will be chaired by the Deputy Chairman.
The majority of the Tim Weller and the executive team.
members are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee has not met during the period under A.
7.1 of the Code provides that all directors should be review but intends to meet during the coming year to review the subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general composition of the Board, including the range and experience meeting after their appointment.
The Articles provide that, at of its members, its structure and its size.
Formal procedures are the first two Annual General Meetings following the Demerger, in place for the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of one third of the directors shall retire from office but shall be Directors as well as succession planning.
This provision was included in the Articles as a result of the Demerger to provide an even spread The induction of new Board members is undertaken by the of director re-appointments and hence not all directors are Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who standing for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
retains responsibility for the induction process.
It includes meetings with senior management.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires shareholders may be arranged on request.
at least one member of the Audit Committee to have competence in accounting and or auditing and the Board All Directors have access to the advice of the Company is satisfied that the composition of the Audit Committee Secretary as well as appropriate training and briefings.
However, it is a separate Additionally, any Director may take independent professional provision of C. 3.1 of the Combined Code that at least one advice on any matter at the Companys expense in the member of the Audit Committee should have recent and furtherance of their duties.
The Board considers that there Performance evaluation is sufficient breadth of financial expertise across the Audit The Chairman plans to lead an internal performance evaluation Committee and that, collectively, its members have the of the Board and its Committees in the form of a detailed requisite skills and attributes to discharge its responsibilities questionnaire.
The findings will be collated by the Company properly.
As a result the Board has decided not to identify Secretary and presented to the Board for consideration.
any one member as having such experience.
During the year, the Non-executive Directors will meet By order of the Board privately, both with and without the Chairman being present, Philip Davis to consider management performance and succession General Counsel and Company Secretary issues.
The Non-executive Directors will also appraise the 26 May 2010 Chairmans performance and carefully review the relationship
