42 GOVERNANCE REpORT OF ThE AuDIT COmmITTEE This report sets out the membership, purposes and Meetings activities of the Audit Committee during the year.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the Committee Chair in conjunction with other members of the Committee Membership and terms of reference as appropriate.
At each scheduled meeting the Committee The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised solely receives reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the external of the Non-executive Directors: Penny Hughes Committee auditor and the Risk Director together with twice yearly Chair, John Barton and Clive Butler.
Following the relitigation reports from the General Counsel.
As mentioned registration of the Company as a public limited company on above, the Committee held one meeting for the period under 25 January 2010, the Committee has held one meeting but, review.
The principal activities of the Committee at this going forward, it plans to meet at least four times a year.
meeting were: The Chief Financial Officer, the Risk Director and the General n Evaluating systems, procedures and controls of the Counsel will also be invited to attend all Committee meetings.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Group in preparation for the In May and November when the full year and half year results Company being demerged and becoming a listed entity are considered, the Chairman and Executive Directors are in its own right: invited to attend.
n reviewing and agreeing upon an annual Committee work The Audit Committees responsibilities include: programme: n considering reports from the Chief Financial Officer and n assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities to create KPMG Audit Plc KPMG on the 2009 10 audit process an effective system of internal control and compliance: and annual financial report: n ensuring accurate external financial reporting including the n considering a review of the Companys existing corporate Boards obligations prescribed by law, under the Combined governance and financial reporting procedures and their Code and under the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules: effectiveness: n reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions n reviewing a report on the work of internal audit for 2009 10 and judgements of management in relation to the full year and considering an internal audit plan for 2010. and half year financial statements before submission to the Board: The Companys whistle-blowing policy and procedures n reviewing and approving the internal audit programme: enable staff, in confidence via an externally managed Ethics n overseeing, reviewing and monitoring managements hotline and an internal audit drop box to raise concerns conduct: about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other n recommending for shareholder approval the appointment, matters.
The Committee receives reports on whistle-blowing re-appointment and removal of the external auditors: and is satisfied that appropriate procedures are in place n monitoring and reviewing the external auditors to ensure that the investigations are proportionate and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process: independent and that appropriate follow-up action is taken.
and Internal audit n reviewing, monitoring and reporting on the Groups policies The internal audit function, led by the Risk Director, is and processes for effective risk management.
supported by a team of auditors based in the UK.
The The Committees full terms of reference are published on our function has a formal charter approved by the Board that website www.
describes its purpose, authority and responsibility.
Its audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee annually.
Disclosure Committee To assist the Committee with the above, responsibility for identifying and considering disclosure matters in connection with the preparation of all market releases containing material financial information has been delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This Committee comprises senior management from Group finance, legal and external affairs.
During the preparation of the Annual Report, the Disclosure Committee obtains certifications from contributors prior to the documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 43 External audit KPMG has acted as auditor of Cable and Wireless plc since 1991 and the Company has opted to retain KPMG as its auditor.
The Committee intends to evaluate KPMGs tenure annually and is not restricted by any contractual obligations in its choice of auditors.
The Board has accepted the Committees recommendation that KPMG should be reappointed for 2010 11.
This recommendation was based on a detailed review of the Cable and Wireless plc 2008 09 audit which demonstrated overall satisfaction with the performance of KPMG as external auditor.
The review included a survey of Cable and Wireless plc Audit Committee members and key personnel involved in the audit, discussions with KPMG, senior management and internal audit, as well as an analysis of KPMGs capabilities and independence.
The audit engagement partner assigned on Demerger had previously been involved in the audit of Cable and Wireless plc.
He will be responsible for the engagement in the future within the applicable guidelines.
The Committee will establish a policy to maintain the independence of the external auditor and its personnel, governing the provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditor and its associates.
The policy will clearly identify permitted and prohibited services and set out the procedure to be followed for the approval of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements with an expected fee in excess of 250,000 require the prior approval of the Chair of the Audit Committee.
For the year ended 31 March 2010 fees for audit services were 1.5 million together with fees for audit-related regulatory reporting of 0.2 million and non-audit work of 3.3 million of which 2.9 million represents service related to corporate finance transaction the majority of which was related to the Demerger.
The nature of the services provided is set out in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.
There is no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of KPMG as auditor to the Company.
The Audit Committee report was approved by the Board on 26 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by: Penny Hughes Chair, Audit Committee
