Statement of Corporate Governance the monitoring of the business activities of the Company, Introduction ranging from analysis of investment performance to annual The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis describe how they have complied with the principles of the Companies Act requirements, such as the approval of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June half-yearly and annual Financial Statements, and approval 2008, which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils and recommendation of the interim and final dividends website: www.
"respectively setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may The Association of Investment Companies AIC has also operate published a Code of Corporate Governance ""AIC Code"" and major changes relating to the Companys structure, a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies including share buy-backs and share issues AIC Guide which are available on the AICs website: Board appointments and removals and the related terms www."
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 of and conditions of the management and administration the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional agreements relating thereto principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific terms of reference and membership of Board Committees relevance to investment trusts.
Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority approval of all circulars and listing particulars, The Board considers that reporting against the principles and and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the the Board.
AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code will provide better information to shareholders.
The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors.
The names and biographies of those Directors who held Application of the Principles of the Codes office at the date of this Annual Report appear on pages 20 The Company has complied with the recommendations of and 21 of this Annual Report, and indicate their range of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the investment, industrial, commercial and professional Combined Code, except the Combined Code provisions experience.
relating to: The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors The role of the chief executive against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded Executive directors remuneration that they are all independent of the investment manager The need for an internal audit function.
"""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or the Manager, and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct."
are not relevant to the position of Murray Income Trust PLC, being an externally-managed investment company.
The Ms Glen was, until December 2008, a partner of a law firm Company has, therefore, not reported further in respect of which has undertaken occasional work for companies within these provisions.
The Board is committed to high standards the Managers group.
In January 2009, Ms Glen ceased to be of corporate governance and has put in place a framework a partner of that firm.
Accordingly, while Ms Glen does not for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for meet the tests of independence set out in the AIC Code, the an investment trust.
Board takes the view that, in performing the role of Director, Ms Glen has displayed independence from the Manager.
The Board Mr Gifford will, by the Annual General Meeting, have served The Board sets the Companys values and objectives, and as a Director for more than ten years.
The Combined Code ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
It has states that, following appointment, the test of independence formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
However, the be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains AIC Code states that the test of independence continues to full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will follow the operational and compliance issues.
The Board takes the view that independence is not compromised by length of service on the Board, and that These matters include: experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
The the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk Board is, therefore, satisfied that Mr Gifford, as Chairman, management policies continues to have the appropriate experience, knowledge and Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued independence to remain in this role.
As recommended by the Between meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with Combined Code, Mr Gifford will stand for annual re-election.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is the review of investment performance and associated The re-election of Mr Honebon and Mr Gifford, whose matters, including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and biographies appear on pages 20 and 21, were considered and investor relations, peer group information and industry approved by the Nomination Committee.
The reasons for the issues.
Committees recommendations for their re-election, and the subsequent approval of those recommendations by the In order to enable the Board to function effectively and allow Board, are set out below: Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Mr Honebon has been a Director since August 2005.
He is a Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of director of Fleming Family and Partners Asset Management, papers, including the Managers review and discussion where he is responsible for the management of investment documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made portfolios for the Fleming family and for other clients.
His further enquiries where necessary.
experience in investment analysis greatly enhances the combined experience of the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Mr Gifford, who has been a Director since July 1999, was independent professional advice, if necessary, at the previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings.
The Directors have access to the advice experience in investment matters is greatly valued by his and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its fellow Directors.
He was appointed Chairman of the appointed representatives, who are responsible to the Board: Company on 27 June 2004. for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors information flows with the Board and its committees, as must offer themselves for re-election at least once every well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking redevelopment as required election at this time, it has been less than three years since for advising through the Chairman on all corporate their previous re-election.
In accordance with both Codes, governance matters.
Directors who have served for more than nine years will be When a Director is appointed, an induction process is required to offer themselves annually for re-election.
This involves induction meetings The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal Mr van der Klugt has been appointed Senior Independent responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and During the year ended 30 June 2010, the Board met six statutory requirements and internal controls.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors and affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board Committee members at Board and Committee meetings are as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various shown below.
training specific to non-executive Directors, including training courses run by the AIC and the Manager.
Audit, Management Nomination Engagement At the September 2009 Board meeting, a formal process was and Committee undertaken for the consideration and authorisation by the Remuneration Meetings Board of Directors' reported actual and potential conflicts of Board Committee Attended interest, a full analysis of the Directors' appointments and Meetings Meetings interests having been considered at that meeting.
In Director Attended Attended accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and P A F Gifford 6 6 4 4 1 1 relevant legislation, each Director abstains from approval of A J M Coats 2 3 1 1 1 1 their own position.
The Board will continue to monitor and M Glen 6 6 4 4 1 1 review potential conflicts of interests on a regular basis.
N A Honebon 5 6 4 4 1 1 The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual H van der Klugt 6 6 4 4 1 1 performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, D E Woods 6 6 4 4 1 1 to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time up to the date of Mr Coats retirement from the Board, on and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and 27 October 2009 Committees, and to consider each Directors independence.
28 Murray Income Trust PLC The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
Audit Committee The Board considers that none of his other commitments An Audit Committee has been established and comprises all set out on page 20 of this report interfere with the independent Directors including the Company Chairman.
The discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, and is Board considers it appropriate that the Company Chairman is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the a member of the Audit Committee, although he may not Company effectively.
There have been no significant changes chair it, provided that he is considered by the Board to be to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
independent, as is currently the case.
Mr van der Klugt, a chartered accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit External Agencies Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, website, are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on including the Manager and other service providers, certain an annual basis.
The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, services: the management of the investment portfolio: the the Companys Auditors, to be independent of the Company, custodial services which include the safeguarding of the as no non-audit services were carried out by Ernst & Young assets : the registration services: and the day-to-day LLP during the year.
accounting and company secretarial functions.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration The matters considered by the Committee during the year by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, in so included: far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board the review of the effectiveness of the internal control receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular environment of the Company to assist in this the basis.
In addition, ad hoc reports and information are Committee received reports from the internal and external supplied to the Board as requested.
auditors on a regular basis the review of the half-yearly and annual Financial Reports Committees the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors Nomination Committee together with their remuneration, as well as the non-audit A Nomination Committee has been established with written services provided by the Auditors if applicable terms of reference which are available on the Companys the review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost website and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
Auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on partner responsible for the audit every five years the following matters: the review of the Auditors management letter and the the identification and nomination of candidates to fill management response Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the approval of the review of the management agreement the Board meetings with representatives of the Manager.
plans for succession the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the Management Engagement Committee conclusion of their specified term of office As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the Engagement Committee has been established, comprising retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the of Association Chairman of the Company.
The Committee annually reviews the continuation in office of any Director at any time matters concerning the investment management agreement the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. in place between the Company and Aberdeen Asset Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the Managers Limited.
Details of this agreement are shown on position of Chairman, the recommendation for which page 25. would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration In considering the appointment of a new Director, the Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.6.
6, where Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
It Combined Code principles relating to directors remuneration may use the professional services of a search consultant to do not apply.
However, the Company does have a identify suitable candidates for review by the Board.
Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board, and whose Chairman is Mr van der Klugt.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued development of the Company.
The Companys policy on As required by the Combined Code, the Annual Report is Directors remuneration, together with details of the posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors the Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on The Notice of Meeting on pages 56 to 59 sets out the request, and on the Companys website.
business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35 and the Directors Report on pages 23 and 24.
Directors Terms of Appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
of three years, subject to re-election and the Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting Association, stand for election at the first Annual General is an event at which all shareholders are encouraged to Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to Association state that Directors must offer themselves for rethe meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect election at least once every three years.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of Policy on Tenure proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board of hands, and details will be posted on the Companys does not consider that the length of service of a Director is website.
as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and therefore the length of service will be determined on a caseShareholders also have direct access to the Company via the by-case basis.
free shareholder information telephone service run by the Manager and the Company, and the Manager responds to Communication with Shareholders letters from shareholders.
The Company's website, from The Company places a great deal of importance on which the Companys reports and other publications can be communication with its shareholders.
The Manager, downloaded, is www.
accompanied occasionally by the Chairman, has an annual Substantial Interests programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
At 15 September 2010, the following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company have been disclosed The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing that, when shares in Murray Income Trust are held in the Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules: name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided Number of with copies of shareholder communications for distribution Shareholder shares held % held to their customers.
Nominee investors may make Clients of Aberdeen Asset 10,800,657 16.70 arrangements to attend and speak at general meetings.
Management Rathbone Brothers 3,216,705 4.97 Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are Investment Management held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are Legal & General Assurance 2,566,738 3.97 given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Pensions Management Direction enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Accountability and Audit Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the Financial Statements is on page 33 and the Statement of voting figures.
Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on pages 25 and 26.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 36.
Those participants who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting are able to make arrangements with the Internal Control administrator of the Savings Plan to do so, and to vote on a show of hands and speak at the meeting.
The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors 30 Murray Income Trust PLC confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, written agreements are in place which specifically define evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third Company, which has been in place for the full year under party service providers review and up to the date of approval of the Financial twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the assessment of internal controls by considering Board and accords with the FRCs guidance document documentation from the Manager, including its internal Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the audit and compliance functions, and taking account of Combined Code.
events since the relevant period end on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of compliance report.
internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly-documented for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities the Company and the policies and procedures by which these that that have been delegated to external professional risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of The Managers Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to the Companys assets to the Manager within overall the Audit Committee of the Company, and has direct access guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system to the Directors at any time.
of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control The internal control systems are designed to meet the systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is function which undertakes periodic examination of business exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are processes, including compliance with the terms of the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide to improve controls are implemented.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the function, and has decided that the systems and procedures FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market employed by the Manager, including its internal audit operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit function, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
internal control, which safeguards shareholders' investment Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required unnecessary.
is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests Annual Report are outlined below: of the Company.
As an investment trust, the Company has the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts no direct social, environmental or community responsibilities.
which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities However, the Directors acknowledge that there are risks and review its investment performance associated with investment in companies which fail to the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly-defined conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Directors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including the social, environment and ethical factors, which may affect performance statistics and investment valuations, are the performance or value of the Companys investments.
regularly submitted to the Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies Proxy Voting as an Institutional Investor concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of as a matter of course, the compliance department of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited continually reviews the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a Managers operations regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investee company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence Murray Income Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary Bow Bells House 1 Bread Street London, EC4M 9HH 15 September 2010 32 Murray Income Trust PLC
