Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk comply with the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate management policies.
Governance the Code as appended to the Listing Rules the monitoring of the business activities of the Company and the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code on ranging from analysis of investment performance through Corporate Governance.
The AIC Code, as explained by the to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Code as analysis.
well as setting out additional principles and Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the recommendations on issues that are specific to investment interim and annual financial statements and approval and companies.
The Board considers that reporting against the recommendation of the interim and final dividends recommendations of the AIC Code will provide better respectively.
setting the level of gearing which the Manager may operate.
Application of the AIC Code Board appointments and removals and the related terms The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
good governance and this statement describes how the appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms principles identified in the AIC Code have been applied by the and conditions of the management and administration Company.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company agreements relating thereto.
has complied with the provisions set out in the AIC Code and terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services ended 31 December 2010.
Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning The Board matters decided by the Board.
The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Manager In addition there were three meetings of the Audit Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, free of any relationship which could materially interfere with two meetings of the Management Engagement Committee the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of and three other Board Committee meetings.
strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
It should be noted that: The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
Mr Shedden is the senior independent non-executive the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in Director.
compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so: the Company does not have an internal audit function There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Combined Code Provision C3.5.
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 24 to 25 of this and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its report and indicate their range of high level industrial, appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and information flows with the Board and its committees, as ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional During the year ended 31 December 2010 the Board met six development as required: and, times with a further six ad hoc meetings, a strategy meeting for advising through the Chairman on all corporate and three Board Committee meetings.
The primary focus at governance matters.
regular Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the basis, with key information on the Companys policies, Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
It has regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Murray International Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to Committees the Board as they arise.
The composition of the Committees is shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee Committee are available on request and copies are also meetings held during the year as shown below with their available on the Companys website.
eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : Nomination Committee Other Regular Ad hoc A Nomination Committee has been established with written Board Board Audit Cmtee terms of reference copies of which are available upon request J F H Trott 6 6 6 6 0 0 6 6 from the Company Secretary and also on the Company's Lady Balfour of 6 6 4 6 3 3 3 6 website, and comprises the following members, all of whom Burleigh are independent from any relationship that would interfere J D Best 6 6 2 6 3 3 4 6 with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: K J Carter 6 6 4 6 3 3 5 6 A C Shedden 6 6 5 6 3 3 4 6 Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Mr Trott is not a member of the Audit Committee but attended all Lady Balfour of Burleigh three meetings by invitation Mr J D Best Dr K J Carter To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Mr A C Shedden Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of the following matters: papers, including the Managers review and discussion the identification and nomination of candidates to fill documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of further enquiries where necessary.
The identification of such candidates is carried out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual of consultants: performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and plans for succession: individual interviews between the Chairman and the other the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient conclusion of their specified term of office: time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the and Committees.
As part of the Directors evaluation process retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles the training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and of Association: agreed.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily evaluated by the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and his fellow Directors.
The Board is satisfied with its current the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. balance, performance and the contributions of its Directors Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the during the year.
position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
External Agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, The Committee met once during the year.
Subsequent to the including the Manager and other service providers, certain period end the Committee met again in order to consider services: the management of the investment portfolio, the and make recommendations to the Board in connection with custodial services which include the safeguarding of the the nomination for re-election of Mr J D Best who retires by assets, the registration services and the day to day rotation at the Annual General Meeting and is seeking reaccounting and company secretarial requirements.
The Committee also considered the re-election of these contracts was entered into after full and proper Mr A C Shedden who retires at the Annual General Meeting consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services having served more than nine years on the Board and is offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Committee concluded that the The Board receives and considers regular monitoring reports knowledge and experience of the Directors seeking refrom the Manager in respect of the delegated service election is greatly valued by the Board and recommended providers.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
supplied to the Board as requested.
32 Murray International Trust PLC Audit Committee Management Engagement Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management of reference, copies of which are available upon request from Engagement Committee has been established with written the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website, terms of reference, copies of which are available upon and comprises the following members, all of whom are request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's independent and free from any relationship that would website, comprising the following members, all of whom are interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their independent and free from any relationship that would responsibilities: interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Dr K J Carter Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J D Best Dr K J Carter Mr J D Best The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed Mr A C Shedden and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year The Committee meets once annually in order to review under review, in accordance with those terms of reference matters concerning the management agreement which exists included: with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the management agreement are shown on page 29 of the the review of the effectiveness of the internal control Annual Report.
There was one meeting of the Committee environment of the Company to assist in this the during the year which was attended by all the Committee Company receives reports from the internal and external members.
auditors on a regular basis: the review of the annual accounts and half yearly report: Remuneration Committee the review of the terms of appointment of the auditors The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit comprising the following members, which met once during services provided by the auditors if applicable although the year: there is no fixed rotation in place for the Companys auditors, the Companys audit arrangements are reviewed Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee on a periodic basis in order to confirm that the engagement Dr K J Carter terms remain in line with the market and competitive: Mr J D Best the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the Mr A C Shedden independence and objectivity of the auditors it should be noted that the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, change the The Combined Code recommends that all the members of partner responsible for the audit every five years : the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of the review of the auditors management letter and the the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a management response: calibre appropriate to the future development of the the review of the Managers whistleblowing Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, arrangements: together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is the review of the management agreement: and detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 meetings with representatives of the Manager.
There was one meeting of the Committee during the year which was attended by all the Committee members.
Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are shown on page 32.
Directors Terms of Appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of procedures in place that instil professional values as part of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
Association state that Directors must offer themselves for reAccordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young election at least once every three years.
Any Director who is independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance continues to be effective.
Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Policy on Tenure Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt The Board takes the view that independence is not with on a show of hands.
necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the strength.
In line with best practice, the Boards policy is for free shareholder information telephone service run by the Directors who have been on the Board for more than nine Manager and the Company and the Manager respond to years to retire at each subsequent Annual General Meeting letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with and submit themselves for annual re-election.
The other major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these Directors have discussed the re-election of Mr Shedden and, visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and notwithstanding that he is in his eleventh year of service other publications can be downloaded is maintained on with the Company, confirm that he remains independent.
Accordingly the other Directors are very pleased to recommend to shareholders that they support the re-election Accountability and Audit of Mr Shedden.
The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 37 and the Statement of Communication with Shareholders Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on pages The Company places a great deal of importance on 29 and 30.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 40. communication with its shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Disclosure and Transparency Rules shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the further information on page 30 which is disclosed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Rule 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures Transparency Rules.
that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Internal Control shareholder communications for distribution to their The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance in nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the October 2005, the Directors confirm that there is an ongoing opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction process for identifying, evaluating and managing the enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will in place for the full year under review and up to the date of complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it approval of the financial statements, and this process is to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the FRC Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting Guidance.
are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process the Annual General Meeting.
for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Company and the policies and procedures by which these The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting risks are managed.
and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report on pages 26 and 27.
Separate resolutions are The Directors have delegated the investment management of proposed for each issue.
the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting of internal control, including financial, operational and is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect function which undertakes periodic examination of business the Company.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put processes, including compliance with the terms of the questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The 34 Murray International Trust PLC management agreement, and ensures that recommendations The internal control systems are designed to meet the to improve controls are implemented.
Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are Risks are identified and documented through a risk designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure management framework by each function within the to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, material misstatement or loss.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Proxy Voting and Stewardship Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to Stewardship Code for Institutional shareholders on 2 July systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required 2010.
The purpose of the Code is to enhance the quality of is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
engagement between institutional investors and companies to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the The key components designed to provide effective internal efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report are outlined below: The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Board has the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Manager is and review its investment performance: responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investment criteria: portfolio company, and for attending company meetings.
specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the these issues, including performance statistics and Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all Board.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial shares held by the Company.
analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers as a matter of course the compliance department of Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the Managers website, at: Managers operations: http: www.
aberdeenwritten agreements are in place which specifically define asset.
nsf AboutUs  the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers and monitoring reports are received This sets out the Managers framework on corporate from these providers when required: governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in the Board has considered the need for an internal audit relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested function but, because of the compliance and internal or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to Managers Statement of Compliance with the Code, which place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit appears on the Managers website, at: procedures: and http: www.
aberdeentwice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an asset.
nsf AboutUs  assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal The Board receives from the Manager regular reports on the audit and compliance functions and taking account of exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights.
events since the relevant period end.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks that have been delegated to external professional associated with investment in companies which fail to organisations.
conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six which may affect the performance or value of the monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has Companys investments.
The Directors, through the direct access to the Directors at any time.
Murray International Trust PLC 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment return for its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY 22 February 2011 36 Murray International Trust PLC
