Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 57 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CAIRNS COMMITMENT TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
In this regard, the Board is fully aware of the changes introduced by the new UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010, which supersedes the Combined Code and applies to listed companies with financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Whilst the Board considers that the Company already complies with a number of the principles and provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, it intends to thoroughly review and, where appropriate, enhance its governance processes in view of the new provisions by the end of 2011.
The Company will, therefore, report against the new Code in the corporate governance statement published in the 2011 annual report.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Board considers that the Company complies with all provisions of the Combined Code, other than one which is detailed at the end of this statement.
THE CAIRN BOARD Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability that will assist the Board in its key functions, are prerequisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, five executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The directors biographies are on pages 48 and 49.
Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall both served as non-executive directors during the year but retired at the AGM held on 20 May 2010.
The Board appointed two new independent non-executive directors, Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC, with effect from the close of the AGM on 20 May 2010.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
The main responsibilities of the senior independent non-executive director are as follows: t To provide a sounding board for the chairman and to serve as an intermediary with other directors when necessary.
t To be available to shareholders if they have concerns through which contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or other executive directors has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
t To meet with the other non-executive directors without the chairman present at least annually in order to appraise the chairmans performance.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Currently, all of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
Furthermore they are subject to re-election annually if they have held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the relevant AGM.
These provisions have been applied in selecting the directors to be elected re-elected at the AGM to be held on 19 May 2011.
In accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Companys directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders with effect from the 2012 AGM.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Board has in place a process for annual performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board also reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource.
The performance evaluation process was conducted internally and had a different agenda than in 2009.
The process during 2010, which was led by the Chairman, focused on conducting a thorough review of the skills and experience of each member of the Board and of the strengths and weaknesses of the Board as a whole.
The executive directors also have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonuses payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 69 are linked directly to the results of these reviews.
The senior independent director met with the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present in late 2010 to evaluate the Chairmans own performance and confirmed that he continued to be effective and to demonstrate a high level of commitment to the role.
Following the evaluation process conducted in 2010, the Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
Following the individual performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors performance including those to be elected re-elected at the AGM continues to be effective and that they demonstrate commitment to the role.
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and, in view of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors also intend to review how best to implement the new requirement that evaluation of the board should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued INDEPENDENCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Board believes that the following behaviours are essential in order for a director to be considered independent: t Provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the other directors.
t Questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges rigorously and dispassionately.
t Acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its shareholders.
t Has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Groups business, industry and the market as a whole and the ability to help the executive directors develop proposals on strategy.
Having reviewed the independence of each of the non-executive directors, the Board concluded that all of the non-executive directors of the Company are considered independent.
INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, senior management and the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2010 held a number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
These seminars were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2011.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media articles relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and during 2010, the Board visited both Greenland in July 2010 and the Companys operations in Rajasthan, India in September 2010.
INFORMATION AND SUPPORT The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
All directors are aware of the requirement to submit details to the Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of interest.
Notifications have been received from all of the current directors and there are no conflict matters requiring authorisation.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
MATTERS RESERVED TO THE BOARD AND DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements: the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount: borrowing and security: acquisitions and disposals: capital expenditure over a specified amount: amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board: approval of significant changes to accounting policies: and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board was also reviewed and updated during 2010.
The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives to the Chief Executives Committee, which comprises the executive directors and senior management.
Operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis is delegated to asset managers and functional heads of department.
In addition to this, the Company during 2010 instituted two new non-board committees the strategy review group and the technical advisory board to support its operational management and strategic decision-making process.
The strategy review group meets on an ad hoc basis and comprises five members of the senior management team including three executive directors and one non-executive director.
It provides advice to the Board on strategic options open to Cairn to fulfil its next phase of growth.
The technical advisory board meets at least three times per year, usually on a day immediately prior to a scheduled Board meeting, and currently comprises three executive directors, two independent technical experts and three non-executive directors who attend by invitation.
It provides an independent forum for expert technical advice and peer group review of technical programmes, including new ventures proposals, in the context of the agreed exploration strategy.
The technical advisory board also provides advice on technical excellence and appropriate new technology to assist in developing the Companys growth strategy.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 59 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued BOARD MEETINGS During 2010, seven scheduled meetings of the Board were held, six of which were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh, with one meeting held in India.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, are set out below.
During the year, a number of other meetings took place to deal with specific matters that required to be considered at short notice.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure that sets out when those matters must be considered at a short-notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors, one of whom must be the chairman or the senior independent non-executive director, and two executive directors.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board and committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
In particular, the agenda for each Board meeting includes a detailed update on matters in respect of the Groups Indian business from those directors of the Company who also sit in a non-executive capacity on the board of Cairn India currently Sir Bill Gammell, Jann Brown and Malcolm Thoms.
The Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India, Rahul Dhir, also attends part of each meeting to ensure that the Board is kept fully briefed on matters relating to Cairn India.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
DIRECTORS ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE MEETINGS The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2010: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings held during 2010 7 4 6 5 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended Executive directors 1 Sir Bill Gammell 7 n a n a 5 Dr Mike Watts 7 n a n a n a 1 Jann Brown 7 n a n a n a 2 Malcolm Thoms 6 n a n a n a 3 2 Phil Tracy 5 n a n a n a 1 Simon Thomson 7 n a n a n a Non-executive directors Norman Murray 7 n a 6 5 4 4 Hamish Grossart 1 2 n a n a 2 2 2 Todd Hunt 6 n a 4 3 5 5 5 Mark Tyndall 2 n a 2 2 6 2 Iain McLaren 7 4 3 4 Dr James Buckee 7 4 6 n a 7 Alexander Berger 5 n a n a n a 8 8 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 5 2 n a n a Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 During 2010, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 Where a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
3 Phil Tracy was unable to attend two Board meetings during 2010 due to Company business commitments in India.
4 Hamish Grossart retired as a member of the Board and the audit committee on 20 May 2010.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
5 Mark Tyndall retired as a member of the Board and remuneration and nomination committees on 20 May 2010.
6 Iain McLaren was appointed as a member of the remuneration committee on 20 May 2010.
The number of meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
7 Alexander Berger was appointed as a director on 20 May 2010.
8 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC was appointed as a director and a member of the audit committee on 20 May 2010.
60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee currently comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The members of the committee during the year were as follows: t Iain McLaren chairman : t Dr James Buckee: t M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC joined the committee on 20 May 2010 : and t Hamish Grossart retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 20 May 2010.
The audit committee met four times in 2010.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these meetings.
The Chairman also attended one meeting as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
In addition, all four meetings were attended by the external auditors and by the internal auditors.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The role of the committee includes: t monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: t reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: t reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: t monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: t overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and t reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Of the four audit committee meetings held during 2010, the first two meetings were in respect of the 2009 year-end process the second two meetings were in respect of the 2010 interim accounts.
At the first of these meetings, issues which may impact on the financial statements were raised by both the senior management and the external auditors.
The auditors also presented their audit plan.
Audit committee guidance was sought on accounting policies and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the audit committee recommended the policies to be adopted or directs senior management to produce further information if deemed necessary.
At the second meeting in respect of the year-end process, the external auditors report their audit results to the audit committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The audit committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
The audit committee must also be satisfied that the engagement is the most effective and efficient means of procuring such non-audit services.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 61 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued 1.
Audit Committee Report continued KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
KPMG also provides internal audit services to Cairn India.
At the beginning of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks and to update the committee on the internal audit work plan.
The audit committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors do, however, attend all audit committee meetings where internal audit updates are given.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance department.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
In addition to this, the EY senior audit partner working with Cairn is subject to rotation.
The current audit partner has worked with the Company on the 2008, 2009 and 2010 year-end process.
The Company updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2009 and the new policy was subsequently rolled out across the organisation and reviewed by the audit committee.
The audit committee is satisfied that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee currently comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: t Dr James Buckee chairman : t Todd Hunt: t Norman Murray: t Iain McLaren joined the committee on 20 May 2010 : and t Mark Tyndall retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 20 May 2010.
The remuneration committee met six times during 2010.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
Certain other of the executive directors attended meetings of the committee as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
The role of the committee includes: t determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the CEC: t within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: t determining the level of awards made under the Companys long-term incentive plans and share option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: t determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: t determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term incentive plans and exercise of share options: and t determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 83.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee currently comprises the Chairman, two independent non-executive directors and to ensure input from the executive the Chief Executive.
The members of the nomination committee during the year were as follows: t Norman Murray chairman : t Todd Hunt: t Iain McLaren: t Sir Bill Gammell: and t Mark Tyndall retired as a non-executive director and member of the committee on 20 May 2010.
The nomination committee met six times in 2010.
In addition to the members listed above, certain other non-executive directors attended meetings on being invited to do so by the committee.
The Combined Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
The nomination committee also takes into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Cairn currently has two exceptionally well qualified women on its Board, one executive and one non-executive.
The Board is also diverse in terms of the range of experience and nationality of its members.
62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued 3.
Nomination Committee Report continued New appointments during 2010 Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC were appointed as non-executive directors of the Company with effect from 20 May 2010.
The following procedures were followed in respect of these appointments: The committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board with a view to identifying any gaps in the skill set of the Board and also where gaps would exist following the retirement of Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall.
The committee then decided to conduct a search for one new non-executive director with technical expertise and another new non-executive director with a general business, commercial and or financial background.
The committee instructed Ridgeway Partners to headhunt for these positions pursuant to which a list of candidates was provided to the committee.
During this external selection process, additional potential candidates were identified by the committee.
Following this, a shortlist was prepared and four candidates were interviewed by the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This process identified Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC as the preferred two candidates based on their extensive experience in the oil and gas sector and their business, commercial and financial skills.
Alexander Berger is currently CEO of Oranje Nassau Energie B. V. a private Dutch exploration and production company based in Amsterdam, where his key responsibility is to grow the portfolio through the acquisition and development of production assets.
Prior to his appointment to this role in 2009, Alexander was Managing Director of Dyas Exploration and Production BV in Utrecht from 2007-2009.
Alexander started his industry career with Shell where he held various technical and commercial positions.
Alexanders educational qualifications are detailed in his biography in the board of directors section on pages 48 and 49.
M. Jacqueline Jackie Sheppard QC was previously Executive Vice-President, Corporate and Legal at Talisman Energy Inc, a post she held for 15 years 1993-2008.
Jackie played a key role in Talismans growth from a domestic only producer of less than 50,000 boepd to an international producer of more than 525,000 boepd.
During her career to date Jackie has been the recipient of many national awards as one of Canadas top business women and corporate counsel.
Jackie is director of Emera Inc. and NWest Energy Inc. both public corporations, and she is Chair of the Research and Development Corporation of Newfoundland and Labrador, a Crown corporation.
Jackie also acts as a director in other private corporations active in the oil and gas sector.
Jackies educational and professional qualifications are detailed in her biography in the board of directors section on pages 48 and 49.
Following their identification as the preferred candidates and prior to their appointment, both Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC met with the Chairman and other members of the nomination committee and with the other non-executive directors as well as the executive directors, Company Secretary and senior management.
They were also given the opportunity to, and subsequently carried out, due diligence on the Company.
The nomination committee then recommended to the Board that Alexander Berger and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC be appointed as non-executive directors of the Company and the proposed appointments were unanimously approved by the Board.
Both were appointed with effect from the close of the AGM held on 20 May 2010 and were invited to attend the board meeting and AGM held immediately prior to their appointment.
M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC was also appointed a member of the Companys audit committee on 20 May 2010.
Succession planning The nomination committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has satisfied itself that the nomination committee has in place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
The Board and nomination committee are satisfied that the individuals currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly succession to the Board and Chief Executives Committee can take place.
Organisational planning 2010 was an exceptionally busy year, with drilling operations commencing in both Greenland and Tunisia and the continued transition of the Edinburgh office from a primarily corporate head office to a joint  hub.
Resourcing remained a key focus area in this respect: over the course of the year, the organisation grew its staff headcount by 22% and further engaged with a large number of specialist consultants to ensure that the organisation was fit-for-purpose and ably equipped to manage operations.
With operations commencing, 2010 saw the Edinburgh office become the base for an Emergency Response Group ERG for Edinburgh-directed operations in addition to the Crisis Response Team CRT, and dedicated fully-equipped response rooms were set up from which to manage any emergencies or crises that may arise.
Employees and consultants who were part of the ERG CRT teams undertook a number of emergency training exercises throughout the year to ensure they were fully trained and equipped to deal with a live emergency.
Unfortunately, drilling of the Louza well offshore Tunisia was deemed commercially unsuccessful and following much consideration, the decision was taken to relinquish the block and to close Cairns office in Tunis at the end of November, which resulted in four local redundancies.
These were managed as sensitively as possible and in strict compliance with Tunisian employment legislation.
The decision was also taken to sell Cairns interest in Bangladesh to Santos and this was completed in December 2010.
Fortunately, this was a smooth transition with all national staff continuing to be employed by Santos following the sale.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 63 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued BOARD COMMITTEES continued 3.
Nomination Committee Report continued Organisational planning continued In addition to operations, the Company continued to focus on Employee Engagement and conducted a pulse check staff survey in January 2010.
The response rate from staff increased from the initial 2008 survey from 74% to 80%, which was in itself an indication of enhanced levels of engagement.
We were delighted that the results across seven of the eight engagement factors showed increased engagement levels: however, lower levels of engagement were reported in the area of well-being.
Continued efforts across all the engagement factors have been made over the course of the year.
These have included the introduction of a new employee recognition scheme, formal articulation of Company Values and giving five staff the opportunity of a trip to Greenland.
This was in addition to the continuation of our free fruit Fridays, lunch and learn programme, 6-month joiner surveys with new staff and other successful engagement initiatives implemented since the original survey was conducted in 2008.
Another big achievement in 2010 was our Investors in People re-accreditation, demonstrating our ongoing commitment to our people.
The assessment looked at our approach to business strategy, people management strategy, leadership and management strategy, learning and development, management effectiveness, recognition and reward, involvement and empowerment, performance measurement and continuous improvement.
The independent assessor was satisfied beyond any doubt that Cairn continued to meet the requirements of the Investors in People Standard.
Equality and Diversity continues to be an important factor in all that we do.
A comprehensive suite of Diversity policies were implemented in 2009 and training to all staff and contractors on Equality and Diversity in the Workplace is scheduled for 2011.
We continue to monitor the diversity of our workforce and are pleased that, as the organisation has grown, so too has the diverse nature of our staff.
Over the past year, while our headcount within the Capricorn organisation comprises marginally more women than men 48%:52%, the number of women in managerial roles has increased from 15.15% to 26.83%.
Our workforce also comprises a more diverse range of ethnicities 5% compared with 2% in 2009 and employees with a disability 4% compared with 3% in 2009.
2011 looks set to be another busy year on the resourcing front as the organisation continues to grow.
Work on our Employer Brand is currently under way to assist us in continuing to attract the very best talent and help us to meet the organisations resource needs both this year and in the future.
A comprehensive engagement plan is once again in place for 2011 to enhance our ability to attract talent and to help maintain our strong staff retention record.
In response to the results from the 2010 survey, this will include a key focus on employee well-being with a planned introduction of a gym fitness allowance and other wellness-related activities.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and half-yearly report to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year-end and interim results.
The Chairman usually attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, including a dedicated investor relations section.
A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors Report on page 53.
The senior independent non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 19 May 2011 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 144 and 145 and on the Companys website.
Further explanation of the resolutions can also be found in the Directors Report on pages 54 to 56.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a poll.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: t select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: t present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: t provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: t state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the Group and Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Directors section on pages 48 and 49 confirms to the best of his knowledge that: t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company: and t the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
INFORMATION PURSUANT TO THE TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
7 directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report.
GOING CONCERN The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to use the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
INTERNAL CONTROL The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place an Integrated Internal Control & Assurance Framework the framework, which plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2010 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls during 2010 and will ensure that such reviews are performed in 2011.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the assurance provided by the Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India and Chief Executive of Cairn Energy PLC in respect of the effectiveness of the system of internal control within Cairn India Limited and Cairn Energy PLC.
The Board is accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage these risks effectively.
Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that the Groups values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliances with key partners are ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this approach and success.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 65 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued INTERNAL CONTROL continued 2010 was another year of change.
The Company focused on conducting an exploration drilling programme in its Capricorn subsidiary in Greenland and Tunisia and supporting its subsidiary company Cairn India in progressing the Mangala Field development.
Particular attention has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during 2010 in relation to the significant risks in these business activities.
This included the Greenland drilling programme, where a thorough and robust strategy was in place, even before the tragic incident in the Gulf of Mexico.
Cairn India is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of SEBI and to its listing agreement with the BSE and NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO the Relationship Agreement, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their respective obligations to SEBI, the FSA, the BSE, the LSE and the NSE and under the SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and UK regulation and legislation relating to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities or corporate governance.
This has included adopting and following the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which enable each company to comply with these obligations.
The following describes the key elements of the framework and the processes used by the Board during 2010 to review the effectiveness of the system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2011.
Strategic direction The Group business model is conventional in that strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board and its implementation is delegated to the CEC.
Following its listing on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, Cairn India is a subsidiary of the Company with its own board of directors.
In accordance with the memorandum and articles of association of Cairn India, the Company has three non-executive directors on the board of Cairn India including Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman and, therefore, has an input to Cairn Indias strategy.
Operating management Outside of Cairn India, the Group, through its unlisted whollyowned subsidiary Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Capricorn has an asset-led matrix organisation where the assets are the principal focus tasked with delivering objectives for their particular asset.
Functional Departments provide support to the assets in delivering their objectives.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at asset level before being consolidated at Group level.
A detailed business plan is also prepared to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated into the Companys annual business plan.
After an iterative process, the business plan and budget is presented to the CEC and the Board for approval.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement these business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegations of authority, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The remit of the CEC is to oversee the delivery of the strategy through the annual business plans and approved budget.
The directors have also appointed Group Functional Department Heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
Risk management The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
The GBRMS also identify the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset, country and group levels.
In 2010, the GRMC was chaired by the Finance Director and in keeping with its rotation policy, the Legal and Commercial Director took over the chair in January 2011.
The GRMC comprises executive directors and senior functional management.
The non-executive chairman of the audit committee is a member of the GRMC and the Internal Auditor also attends meetings, in order to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process.
A Corporate and Functional Risk Management Sub Committee is also in place under the chairmanship of the Director, Planning & Business Development, to manage the assessment and treatment of wider business risks that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
Subsequent to its listing, Cairn India operates its own RMC in line with its Business Risk Management System BRMS under the chairmanship of its Chief Operating Officer and reporting to the Cairn India Board.
Risk Management Sub Committees have also been set up reporting to the Cairn India RMC to consider the specific risks associated with operations, finance, exploration, commercial, and the Rajasthan upstream and midstream projects.
The Cairn India BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, a copy of the Cairn India risk report and RMC minutes is routinely submitted for review at the GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is present to provide explanation and take questions.
66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued INTERNAL CONTROL continued 3.
Risk management continued Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities, are recorded in asset and country risk registers which are reported through to the Group risk register.
The Cairn India, asset and corporate and functional risk registers are integrated into the Group risk register, and are regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place across the Group.
The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the Board.
Additionally, the audit committee and Board receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2010 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
Financial Accounts To mitigate risks in the preparation of the Group consolidated accounts, Cairn uses a standard accounting policy manual throughout the Group to ensure that transactions are recognised and balances measured and reported in accordance with prescribed accounting policies.
Information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the Group reporting process and this is supplemented by frequent planning and review visits from those responsible for the preparation of the consolidated accounts to the Groups key overseas locations.
A uniform chart of accounts within the Capricorn Group and direct one-to-one mapping of the Cairn India Group trial balances supplemented by standard reporting packs used for submissions from overseas locations ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent manner.
Assurance The framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: firstly at operational level: secondly, through overview by Group functional management and the GRMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
The integrated internal control and assurance framework was updated and distributed throughout the Company in October 2010.
The new version reflects changes to the organisation since the original version was issued in May 2005, including the move to an asset-led organisation and the feedback from the Deloittes review in 2009 into the appropriateness of the Cairn framework.
It includes a description of the Cairn business and assurance models, organisation and Committee structure and defines responsibilities.
The framework also defines the key policies procedures which govern the way in which Cairn conducts its business and are therefore a core part of its system of internal control.
A separate Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department was established in January 2010 reporting to the Finance Director with the role of providing independent verification of the CR, business risk and compliance activities.
In 2010, the Company also established two advisory committees described earlier in this statement on page 58 which facilitate independent advice on strategic and technical issues.
During 2010, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: t a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: t implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: t an appropriate organisational structure: t control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated representatives: t specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: t segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: t business and financial reporting, including KPIs: t functional management reviews: t nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India Board in a non-executive capacity and to certain of its committees.
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn India Board of directors: t a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: t an annual letters of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: t a letter of assurance from the Cairn India Chief Executive Officer and Cairn Energy PLC Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within Cairn India and Cairn Energy PLC in line with its policy, and reporting any control weaknesses identified in the past year: t Group internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and Board: t reports from the Group audit committee and GRMC, including reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India audit committee : t reports from the new advisory committees on technical and strategic options: t reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: t reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: and t independent third party reviews.
Directors and Governance Directors and Governance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 67 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE Throughout 2010, the Company complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code, except in the following area: Provision of the Combined Code Company position Explanation A.
3.2 at least half the Board, excluding During 2010, the Board The Board firmly believes that the the chairman, should comprise comprised the Chairman, composition of the Board was appropriate non-executive directors determined the Chief Executive, five and effective for the challenges that it by the Board to be independent.
other executive directors faced during 2010.
The Board is satisfied and five independent that it maintained a sufficient degree of non-executive directors.
independence throughout the year to enable it to discharge effectively and properly its obligations under the Combined Code.
