Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS In this section, we describe how the Companys governance operated during 2010 Martin Murray Group Company Secretary Approach to governance Compliance with the UK Corporate Old Mutual views good governance as a vital Governance Code ingredient of operating a successful business, so As the Companys primary listing now known in that we can provide assurance to shareholders, the UK as a premium listing is on the London customers and regulators that the Groups Stock Exchange, this report mainly addresses the businesses are being properly managed matters covered by the UK Corporate Governance and controlled.
Code, but the Company also has regard to governance expectations in the four other During 2010, the Group completed its transition territories where its shares are listed South Africa, from a highly decentralised federal model of group Malawi, Namibia and Zimbabwe.
The Companys governance to a more centralised strategic major South African subsidiaries are also subject controller model steered from our head ofce, to applicable local governance expectations, facilitated by the roll-out of our new Group including those contained in King III and, in the Operating Model.
case of Nedbank Group Limited, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
The new Model establishes clear principles of delegation and escalation that are designed to provide appropriate levels of assurance about the control environment, while retaining exibility for our businesses to operate efficiently.
Martin Murray Group Company Secretary Old Mutual plc 133 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 Q Monitoring and managing of the relationships and in the preparation of this Annual Report between the Group and its regulators: and these Accounts, the Company has complied Q Reviewing and implementing of effective with the main and supporting principles and systems of delegation and internal control, and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance the carrying out of an annual review of their Code as described in the following sections of this effectiveness: Report save in respect of the matter discussed Q Overall review and approval of Group strategy below under the heading rotation and re-election and the setting of long-term objectives and or of directors.
The Companys compliance with changes in strategic direction: and UK Corporate Governance Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 to C3.7, and the statement relating to Q Monitoring of the overall performance of the the going concern basis adopted in preparing Group in relation to its objectives, plans, targets the financial statements set out at the end of and the implementation of projects and this section of this report, have been reviewed decisions.
by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, 2010 operations in accordance with guidance published by the Board meetings were held regularly during 2010.
Scheduled meetings were coordinated with the Companys reporting calendar to allow for detailed Board of Directors consideration of interim and final results and Membership interim management statements.
Sessions were The Old Mutual Board currently has 13 members, also devoted to strategy and business planning two of whom are executive and eleven of whom and the Board met ad hoc, as required, to deal are non-executive directors.
All of the current with specic matters requiring its consideration.
directors, except for Roger Marshall who was In all, 19 Board meetings of which eight were appointed to the Board on 5 August 2010, Alan scheduled and 11 convened ad hoc were held Gillespie who was appointed to the Board on 3 during 2010.
November 2010 and Eva Castillo who was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2011, Monthly management accounts were circulated to served throughout the year ended 31 December each member of the Board within three weeks of 2010.
Richard Pym resigned from the Board at the the month end, containing detailed analysis of the end of his first three-year term in August 2010 businesses financial performance, including because of the pressure of his other commitments.
Any issues arising from these are addressed at Board meetings or Responsibilities of the Board can be raised directly with management.
The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of the Company within a framework of prudent and The Board calendar ensures that all key matters effective controls that enables risk to be assessed are scheduled for attention over the course of the and managed.
The Board sets the Companys year, including presentations on the Groups major strategic aims, reviews whether the necessary businesses.
During 2010, the Board held meetings financial and human resources are in place for it to at the Groups South African, Wealth Management meet its objectives and monitors management and Nordic businesses premises.
It is kept informed about major developments affecting the Group through the In addition to its normal agenda items, the Board Group Chief Executives monthly reports and also also addressed the following matters, among holds one or more strategy sessions each year at others, during the year: which high-level strategic matters are debated.
Q Approval of the Groups strategic targets for the The Board has overall authority for the conduct of end of 2012 that were announced in March the business of the Group and there are a number 2010 and review of progress against those of matters that have been specically reserved for targets.
The Board also held various follow-up the Board to decide, including: discussions about strategy for the Group as a whole and for particular business units: Q Approval of financial reporting, such as interim and annual results, the Annual Report and Q Oversight of the sale process for the US Life Accounts of the Group, payment of dividends business and of negotiations for a possible sale and accounting policies: of the Groups stake in Nedbank: Q Approval of the introduction of a scrip dividend Q Monitoring of the cash and capital resources, and overall liquidity, of the Group and alternative scheme for future dividends: authorising any significant acquisitions, Q Monitoring progress of the iCRaFT project, disposals of core businesses, investments, which is designed to prepare the Group for the capital expenditure or other material projects introduction of Solvency II: or transactions: 134 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The Board has also delegated specic Q Updates on the embedding of the new Group responsibilities for certain matters to Board Operating Model: and committees.
The principal Board committees have Q Consideration of scenario-planning for the responsibility for Nomination, Remuneration, Old Mutual Bermuda business.
Group Audit and Board Risk matters, subject to their respective terms of reference.
The Board In addition, the Board received briengs on a receives reports from these committees on the number of topics from internal and external experts subjects that they have covered.
The matters during the year, as part of its continuing training, addressed by the principal Board committees in including risk in the financial services industry, 2010 are outlined below under the heading Board compliance procedures required for the new UK Committees and, for the Remuneration Bribery Act 2010, and the role of models in Committee, in the Remuneration Report.
Group Operating Model New directors received induction upon their The objectives of the Group Operating Model are: appointment to the Board, including information about matters of immediate importance to the Q To establish a clear and comprehensive Group, such as the current strategy and operating governance framework, with appropriate performance.
During 2010, these induction procedures, systems and controls, facilitating arrangements were put on to a more formal the satisfactory discharge of the duties and footing, with an extensive list of brieng sessions obligations of regulated rms, directors and about the Groups businesses being made employees within the Group: available to new appointees in conjunction with Q To provide a clear articulation of Old Mutual other directors, members of senior management plcs expectations as shareholder of business and external advisers such as the auditors.
unit boards when exercising their powers as set out in their respective constitutions as in force All directors have access to the Group Company from time to time: Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for Q To take due account of the regulatory ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
requirement that boards of regulated entities maintain proper controls over the affairs of their Facilities are available for the directors to take respective businesses: and independent professional advice at the Companys expense for the furtherance of their duties, whether Q To protect the interests of the Groups various as members of the Board or of any of its stakeholders including its shareholders, committees.
The Company maintains directors and ofcers The governance relationship with the Groups liability insurance in respect of legal action against majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group its directors and senior managers.
Limited, recognises the latters own governance expectations as a separately-listed entity on the Delegation of certain responsibilities JSE Limited and the fact that it has minority The Board has delegated its executive powers to shareholders.
The Company entered into a the Group Chief Executive, with power to subrelationship agreement with Nedbank Group delegate, and to the Approvals Committee.
In his Limited in February 2004 setting out the coordination and stewardship of the Group, the Companys requirements and expectations as its Group Chief Executive is advised by the Group majority shareholder.
The full text of that Executive Committee, a consultative management relationship agreement is available on the committee.
In addition to the executive directors of Companys website.
Nedbank has also now the Company Julian Roberts and Philip Broadley, adopted the Group Operating Model, subject to the other current members of the Group Executive certain waivers in acknowledgement of its Committee are: Peter Bain President and Chief separately-listed and regulated status, which sits Executive officer of US Asset Management, alongside that letter.
Andrew Birrell Group Risk and Actuarial Director, Mike Brown Chief Executive of Nedbank Group, Rotation and re-election of directors Paul Hanratty Chief Executive officer of the The Articles of Association of the Company require Long-Term Savings division, Don Hope Head of that any newly-appointed directors should be Strategy Development and Don Schneider Group subject to election at the next following AGM and Human Resources Director.
Additional details of also that the Chairman, along with at least one members of the Group Executive Committee third of the directors excluding those appointed by accompany their photographs on pages 42 and 43 the Board during the year, should retire by rotation of this Annual Report.
Old Mutual plc 135 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED Accordingly, at the Annual General Meeting AGM The 2010 review was conducted through an internal to be held on 12 May 2011, shareholders will be survey and interview process under the auspices asked to approve the election of Eva Castillo, Alan of the Group Human Resources Director, the results Gillespie and Roger Marshall, and the re-election of which were then shared with the Chairman and of Patrick OSullivan and Russell Edey.
Nigel the Senior Independent Director.
The Board also Andrews and Rudi Bogni, having completed nine received input during the year from an external years on the Board, will retire at the AGM and will consultancy, Engage for Change, who made various not seek re-election.
The Board, having reviewed recommendations about how Board engagement the performance of the directors who are to be could be improved and time at Board meetings proposed for election or re-election and the used to maximum benefit.
A plan to address contributions that they each respectively have recommendations arising from the annual review made, recommends that they each be elected or and input received from Engage for Change over re-elected as directors at the AGM.
Biographical the coming year has been agreed by the Board.
details of all of the directors are contained in the Board of Directors section of this Annual Report.
The Boards performance review is now externally facilitated at least every three years in line with the In view of the many changes that have taken place UK Corporate Governance Code, with the last in the composition of the Board over the last two such externally facilitated review having taken years, the fact that the Company is just over one place in 2009. year into a three-year strategic plan and the onerous clearance procedures which new Executive and non-executive roles directors of UK financial institutions now have to While there are currently only two executive undergo with the Financial Services Authority, the directors, all members of the Board have regular Company believes that it is not currently contact with the other senior executive appropriate to instigate annual re-election of all management including the most senior executives directors as recommended by the UK Corporate of the main business units of the Group through Governance Code.
The Company will, however, their periodic participation in Board meetings, keep this matter under review as investors views other brieng sessions by the senior executives and market practice on the subject become clearer and Board visits to the locations where the Groups and will reconsider its position annually.
Skills, experience and review The executive element of the Board is balanced by Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards an independent group of non-executive directors.
composition are managed proactively by the The Board as a whole approves the strategic Nomination Committee so as to ensure that direction of the Group, scrutinises the performance changes take place without undue disruption and of management in meeting agreed goals and that there is an appropriate balance of experience objectives, and monitors the reporting of and length of service.
Procedures are in place to enable considers, in making recommendations, the Board members to satisfy themselves about the independence of candidates and their suitability integrity of the Groups financial information and to and willingness to serve on other committees of ensure that financial controls and systems of risk the Board.
All of these aspects are currently management are robust and sustainable.
Nonbelieved by the Nomination Committee to be executive directors on the Remuneration suitable for the requirements of the Groups Committee are responsible for determining business.
However, such matters will be kept appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive actively under review, having regard to scheduled directors.
Members of the Nomination Committee retirements of non-executive directors and the have a primary role in recommending the Groups developing strategy.
appointment and, where necessary, removal of executive directors.
Board performance review The Board conducts a review of its performance on an annual basis.
The review is designed to ensure, among other things, that each director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and committee meetings and any other duties.
The results of the review are considered by the Board and appropriate actions taken, if necessary.
136 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Separately from the formal Board meeting Independence of non-executive directors schedule, the Chairman holds meetings with the Nine of the ten current non-executive directors other other non-executive directors, without any than the Chairman Nigel Andrews, Mike Arnold, Rudi executives being present, to provide a forum for Bogni, Eva Castillo, Russell Edey, Alan Gillespie, any issues to be raised.
He also conducts a formal Roger Marshall, Bongani Nqwababa and Lars annual one-to-one performance evaluation of each Otterbeck are considered by the Board to be of the other non-executive directors, with any independent within the meaning of, and having resulting action points being reported to the regard to the criteria set out in, paragraph B.
These procedures were UK Corporate Governance Code i. e. independent refreshed during 2010 in line with recommendations in character and judgment and with no relationships contained in the Board effectiveness review or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could conducted during 2009. appear to affect, their judgment.
The other nonexecutive director, Reuel Khoza, is not considered Informal meetings among the non-executive independent because of his chairmanship of the directors, without the Chairman or any executive Groups majority-owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group being present, are also facilitated by the Company.
Limited, and the business relationships between Aka Among the activities carried out at such meetings Capital, in which he owns a stake, and Nedbank.
is the annual review of the Chairmans own performance under the aegis of the Senior The terms and conditions of engagement of each of Independent Director, who also obtains such input the non-executive directors are available in the as he considers appropriate from the executive corporate governance section of the Companys and other non-executive directors.
These include details of the expected time commitment involved which each of the nonThe assignment of responsibilities between the executive directors has accepted.
Other significant Chairman, Patrick OSullivan, and the Group Chief commitments of potential appointees are considered Executive, Julian Roberts, is documented so as to by the Nomination Committee as part of the selection ensure that there is a clear division between the process and are disclosed to the Board when running of the Board and executive responsibility for recommendation of an appointment is submitted.
The responsibilities Non-executive directors are also required to inform of Patrick OSullivan as Chairman include those the Board of any subsequent changes to such contained in the Supporting Principle to paragraph commitments, which must be pre-cleared with the A.
3 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, namely Chairman if material.
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring Senior Independent Director that adequate time is available for discussion of all Rudi Bogni is the Senior Independent Director agenda items in particular strategic issues, ensuring and will be succeeded in this role after he retires that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear at the 2011 AGM by Alan Gillespie.
The Senior information: ensuring effective communication with Independent Director is available to shareholders shareholders: promoting a culture of openness and if they have concerns that are unresolved after debate by facilitating the effective contribution to the contact through the normal channels of the Board of non-executive directors in particular: and Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance ensuring constructive relationships between the Director or where such contact would not be executive and non-executive directors.
The Senior Independent Directors contact details can be obtained from the Group The Board has determined that, in the absence of Company Secretary martin.
exceptional circumstances, non-executive directors should serve a maximum of nine years in ofce.
The Directors interests renewal of non-executive directors terms for Details of the directors interests including interests successive three-year cycles is not automatic and of their connected persons in the share capital of the continued suitability of each non-executive the Company and its quoted subsidiary, Nedbank director is assessed by the Nomination Committee Group Limited, at the beginning and end of the year before renewal of his appointment takes place.
The under review are set out in the following tables, section of the Remuneration Report entitled while their interests in share options and restricted Non-Executive Directors Terms of Engagement share awards are described in the section of the describes the current position of each of the Remuneration Report entitled Directors interests non-executive directors with respect to the duration under employee share plans.
There have been no of their ofce and how the extension process has changes to any of these interests between 31 been applied to them.
Old Mutual plc 137 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2010 Nigel Andrews 7,000 Mike Arnold 12,725 Rudi Bogni 19,000 1 Philip Broadley 55,353 Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie 2 Reuel Khoza 2,062 Roger Marshall 20,000 Bongani Nqwababa Patrick OSullivan 100,000 Lars Otterbeck 1 Julian Roberts 1,591,644 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2010 or date of appointment as a director, if later Nigel Andrews 7,000 Mike Arnold 12,725 Rudi Bogni 19,000 1 Philip Broadley 50,625 Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie appointed 3 November 2010 2 Reuel Khoza 2,062 Roger Marshall appointed 5 August 2010 Bongani Nqwababa Patrick OSullivan Lars Otterbeck 1 Julian Roberts 1,500,832 Former director at 1 January 2010 and date of resignation Richard Pym ceased to be a director on 31 August 2010 40,000 1 These gures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
2 This gure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
Directors conicts of interest to prior clearance by the Board and the Processes are in place for any potential conicts of directorship concerned not being in conict or interest to be disclosed and for directors to avoid potential conict with any of the Groups participation in any decisions where they may have businesses.
Neither Julian Roberts nor Philip any such conict or potential conict.
The Companys Broadley currently holds any external nonprocedures for dealing with directors conicts of executive directorships of other publicly interest have operated effectively during 2010. quoted companies.
No director had a material interest in any significant Board Committees contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries The Board has a number of committees to which during the year.
Additional details of various nonvarious matters are delegated in accordance with material transactions between the directors and the their respective terms of reference.
The Board also Group are reported on an aggregated basis, along establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal with other transactions by senior managers of the with particular matters.
In doing so, it species a Group, in Note G3 to the Accounts.
remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive and non-executive participation.
Further The executive directors are permitted to hold and information on the principal standing retain for their own benefit fees from one external committees of the Board is set out below.
non-Group non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship of another listed company, subject 138 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Group Audit Committee the carrying value of US Asset Management Members and years of appointment to the goodwill see Note F1 to the Accounts.
The committee or its predecessor committee, the Committee has reviewed the assumptions Group Audit and Risk Committee : Roger Marshall underlying the impairment testing and is Chairman 2010, Mike Arnold 2009, Rudi Bogni comfortable with them.
It noted that the 2002, Russell Edey 2004, Alan Gillespie 2010, cushion before an impairment provision will Bongani Nqwababa 2007.
Other member during be necessary has reduced this year: part of the year: Richard Pym 2007.
Secretary loan impairment provisions in Nedbank see and year of appointment: Martin Murray 1999.
A number of renements to the detailed incurred loss All members of the Group Audit Committee methodologies were made this year by the are independent non-executive directors.
The Nedbank Board, resulting in strengthening of Chairman, Roger Marshall, is a chartered the provisions.
The Committee noted that an accountant with a wide range of recent and independent review performed on behalf of relevant financial experience, having previously Nedbank management supported been an audit partner in , managements expectations of loan losses in where he led the audit of a number of major the portfolio: groups including Zurich Financial Services and the treatment of US Life as held for sale see Lloyds TSB.
All members of the committee are Note H2 to the Accounts.
The Committee expected to be nancially literate and to have continued to monitor the bond portfolio of relevant financial experience.
The terms of this business, but this became of less reference of the committee, which specify signicance as its value moved to an its responsibilities, are available on the unrealised profit during the year: Companys website.
Q Reports received from the internal audit function, including the results of key audits and Roger Marshall has submitted the following report other significant findings relating to the Groups on behalf of the committee: control environment, and the adequacy of managements responses and the timeliness of I took over from Richard Pym as Chairman of the resolution.
The Committee was satisfied that Group Audit Committee the Committee at the end management was taking sufficient action to of August and I would like to thank Richard for all address the issues identied by internal audit his hard work and dedication as the previous within an appropriate timescale: Chairman of the Committee.
Q The operation of the Groups external audit, During our seven meetings in 2010, the Committee including: audit plans for the year, key audit risks focused on: identied by external audit, changes in key external audit staff, arrangements for day-to-day Q The significant accounting and actuarial issues management of the audit relationship, the affecting the IFRS and MCEV financial auditors arrangements to identify, report and statements.
The Committee has reviewed the manage any conicts of interest, the nature and accounting policies adopted by the Group and overall extent of non-audit services provided by considered the approach to, and valuation of, the external auditors, the external auditors assets and liabilities, including the key actuarial engagement letter for the year and fee proposal, assumptions underpinning the insurance and any major issues that arose during the liabilities.
The Committee considers the most course of the audit and their resolution.
As in significant areas of judgement in preparing the prior years, the Committee received an 2010 accounts were: evaluation of the auditors effectiveness after the the provision for Bermuda guarantees see audit for 2009 had been completed, with input Note E8 to the Accounts.
The Committee from the business units as well as from has reviewed, and is comfortable with, the stakeholders at Old Mutual plc itself: process for determining the provision.
Q The Groups preparations for Solvency II, Recommendations arising from an including through the iCRaFT project: independent review by a leading rm of Q The potential impact on the Group of possible actuaries of the stochastic methodology changes to IFRS accounting for insurance underlying the process, which was carried business and the Companys proposed out in 2009, were implemented during 2010 response to the consultations about these: without material effect.
The eventual liability under the guarantees will depend on future Q Any significant findings or control issues of events, most signicantly market which the Committee became aware, including developments, policyholder behaviour and progress with the Financial Controls Initiative: the level of hedging undertaken.
Note E8 to the Accounts highlights the wide range of possible outcomes: Old Mutual plc 139 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED whistleblowing arrangements.
These enable Q Tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting employees of the Group and others to report the Group.
complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal We received and considered specic reports or controls, auditing issues and related matters.
They presentations on: can do this in confidence, using a dedicated hotline operated by an independent rm of Q The activities of subsidiary audit committees accountants.
Any reports are investigated and on a regular basis.
A number of audit or audit escalated to the Committee as appropriate.
Efforts and risk committees operated during 2010 at are made to educate staff around the Group about subsidiary level, including at Old Mutual Life the existence of the whistleblowing facility and to Assurance Company South Africa Limited, help them detect the signs of possible fraudulent Old Mutual US Holdings, Inc. Old Mutual US or improper activity.
Life Holdings Inc. Old Mutual Wealth Management, Skandia Nordic, Retail Europe, The section later in this Report headed Auditors Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal contains information on our policy on auditor Insurance Company Limited, with terms of independence and non-audit fees and the reference broadly equivalent to those of the Committees recommendation that KPMG Audit Committee.
After Mutual & Federal Insurance Plc should be reappointed as the Companys Company Limited became wholly-owned by auditors for 2011. the Group, its Audit Committees reporting line changed to Old Mutual Life Assurance As a Committee, we hold private meetings with the Company South Africa Limited: and external auditors once a year or more often, if Q A summary of any significant findings of Internal requested by the auditors to review key issues.
Review Committees through which Group As Chairman of the Committee, I also have regular Finance reviews in detail the results of the major interaction with the external auditors and the businesses half-yearly with their Finance Directors, Group Internal Audit Director, as well as with the including, where applicable, the actuarial aspects Chairmen of subsidiary audit committees and the of the results of the life businesses around Group Finance Director, and I have a continuing the Group.
programme of visits to the Groups major subsidiaries arranged, so that I can remain abreast A Governance and Control Planning meeting was of issues as they arise during the year.
held in December 2010 for the Groups major businesses in the southern hemisphere to The Committee can confirm that it has received coordinate their audit and risk committees sufficient, reliable and timely information from activities for 2011.
A similar meeting for the Groups management during the year to enable it to full northern hemisphere businesses will take place in its responsibilities.
The December 2010 meeting was hosted jointly by the Chairmen of the Group Audit Board Risk Committee Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Members and years of appointment to the Chairmen of the respective committees in Old committee: Mike Arnold Chairman 2010, Nigel Mutual Life Assurance South Africa Limited, Andrews 2010, Philip Broadley 2010, Reuel Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, Lars Insurance Company Limited participated, together Otterbeck 2010.
Other member during part of the with the Group Risk and Actuarial Director, the year: Richard Pym 2010.
Additional member Group Internal Audit Director and representatives appointed since the year end: Eva Castillo 2011. from the risk and internal audit functions of those Secretary and year of appointment: Martin three businesses, along with representatives from Murray 2010. the external auditors.
The terms of reference of the committee, which In addition, I sit on the Board Risk Committee, specify its responsibilities, are available on the while the Chairman of that Committee also sits on Companys website.
the Group Audit Committee, so that the activities of the two committees can be closely coordinated.
Mike Arnold has submitted the following report on I also liaise as appropriate with the Chairman of the behalf of the committee: Remuneration Committee so as to ensure that I am able to draw to his attention any aspects of the In April 2010, the Company implemented one of Groups results that the Group Audit Committee the main recommendations of the Walker Review feels ought to be taken into account in setting by establishing a separate Board Risk Committee, levels of remuneration for the executive directors splitting the terms of reference for the former and other senior executives.
Group Audit and Risk Committee between The Committee also reviewed the Groups 140 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information the Group Audit Committee and the Board In addition, during our five meetings in 2010 we Risk Committee.
focused on: Q The Groups preparations for Solvency II, in Apart from myself as Chairman, four other particular through the integrated Capital, Risk non-executive director colleagues including and Financial Transformation iCRaFT the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee, programme.
Under this programme, the together with the Group Finance Director, served Company is implementing: on the Board Risk Committee the Committee A revised Group-wide internal capital model during 2010.
The Group Risk and Actuarial compliant with Solvency II requirements: Director attended each meeting, and the A Group-wide risk reporting system which Group Compliance officer and Group Internal Audit Director attended as appropriate.
The facilitates easier aggregation and escalation of risks from business unit management to the external auditors were invited to attend the December meeting.
Group Risk department: Risk-adjusted performance metrics linked to The Committees initial meeting focused on its incentive arrangements: terms of reference and its relationships with other An own risk and solvency assessment: and Board committees and risk, or audit and risk, Suitable education and training activities to committees at subsidiary companies.
Nedbank ensure that these disciplines are well embedded had already implemented a separate risk and used across the organisation: committee structure in accordance with the Q The management of risks in Old Mutual requirements of the Banks Act in South Africa.
Bermuda, in particular through the hedging Several of the Groups other major subsidiaries programme which it has established to manage Old Mutual Life Assurance Company South the interplay between the Guaranteed Minimum Africa, Mutual & Federal Insurance Company, Old Accumulation benefit liability under certain Mutual Wealth Management and Skandia Nordic contracts with the asset allocations selected were asked to adopt a similar risk governance under those contracts, and the resulting market structure by separating their existing audit and and liquidity risks that arise from various risk committees into audit committees and hedging strategies: risk committees.
Q The Companys response to the FSA in relation By the end of the year, all these companies had to the risk mitigation programme it requested established a separate risk committee, with the after its ARROW II visit in 2009: exception of Mutual & Federal, where the risk Q Regulatory risks arising as a result of business committee met with a separate agenda for the first activities, in particular the Groups regulatory time in February 2011.
I am satisfied that, for the environment and compliance status: time being, Old Mutual Asset Managers US, Old Q Stress and scenario testing, in particular the Mutual Financial Life Insurance US Life, Old consideration of particular economic and Mutual Bermuda and the Skandia Retail Europe business scenarios and their potential impact operations should retain combined audit and on the Groups nances: risk committees.
Q Any risks arising from material corporate transactions being considered by the Group.
The Board Risk Committee received a report at each of its meetings during 2010 from the Group At the end of the year the Committee produced a Risk and Actuarial Director in which any changes report for the Remuneration Committee to the Groups risk prole were identied and commenting on the compliance of the results of discussed.
We also reviewed the risk appetite management actions in 2010 with the risk appetite metrics operated by the Group and recommended metrics agreed by the Board.
to the Board a revised set of criteria that were used by the business units for their business planning As Roger Marshall has indicated in his report on over the three-year period 2011-2013. the activities of the Group Audit Committee, I also sit on the Group Audit Committee and am therefore able to raise matters at either committee as appropriate.
Old Mutual plc 141 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED During 2011, in addition to its regular meetings, the The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that Board Risk Committee will be holding two full-day its process for identifying candidates for workshops to enable discussions on a wide range recommendation to the Board as new directors is of issues relating to the risk management of the formal, rigorous and transparent.
I shall continue to have regular interaction generally arise in the context of either planned with the Group Risk and Actuarial Director and the renewal of the Board, replacing directors who are Group Compliance officer and will attend some due to retire, or adjusting the Boards balance of risk committee meetings of the Groups major knowledge, skills or independence.
In this way I will remain close to any candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring major risk issues that may arise during the year.
that they will have sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments to discharge their Remuneration Committee duties as directors of the Company.
Members and years of appointment to the committee: Rudi Bogni Chairman 2005, Nigel During 2010, the committee oversaw the process Andrews 2002, Russell Edey 2007, Alan Gillespie for identifying and recruiting, in conjunction with 2010, Bongani Nqwababa 2010, Lars Otterbeck external recruitment consultants in each case, 2010.
Other member for part of the year: Richard three new non-executive directors for the Board, Pym 2008.
Additional member appointed since rstly to replace Richard Pym as Chairman of the the year end: Eva Castillo 2011.
Secretary and Group Audit Committee and then by way of year of appointment: Martin Murray 1999. advance planning to replace Nigel Andrews and Rudi Bogni, who are due to retire at the 2011 AGM.
Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration It also considered and approved proposed Committee and how it has applied the main and changes made to the membership of a number of supporting principles and the Code Provisions in subsidiary boards, oversaw the implementation of Section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code various recommendations about Board relating to remuneration matters are provided in effectiveness that had arisen from the previous the Remuneration Report.
The terms of reference years Board effectiveness review, discussed of the Remuneration Committee, which specify succession plans for the executive directors of the its responsibilities, are available on the Company and for various other senior positions Companys website.
around the Group, and supervised the process by which the Company appointed Business Nomination Committee Performance Executives at Old Mutual plc level Members and years of appointment to the with oversight responsibilities for the Groups committee: Patrick OSullivan Chairman 2010, businesses.
Nigel Andrews 2005, Mike Arnold 2010, Rudi Bogni 2003, Russell Edey 2005, Alan Gillespie Other committees 2010, Reuel Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, There are a number of executive committees which Bongani Nqwababa 2010, Lars Otterbeck 2010, assist the Group Chief Executive with the day-toJulian Roberts 2008.
Other member for part of the day management of the Group.
These include the year: Richard Pym 2008.
Additional member Group Executive Committee mentioned earlier in appointed since the year end: Eva Castillo 2011. this report, the Group Executive Risk Committee, Secretary and year of appointment: Martin whose responsibilities are described in the Risk Murray 1999. and Capital Management report earlier in this document: and the Group Capital Management The Nomination Committee makes Committee, whose role is, inter alia, to agree recommendations to the Board in relation to the capital allocations within certain limits or make appointment of directors, the structure of the recommendations to the Board regarding any Board and membership of the Boards main allocations beyond such limits and to approve the standing committees.
It also reviews development capital plan of the Group as part of the annual and succession plans for the most senior executive business-planning process.
management of the Group and proposed appointments to the boards and standing Attendance record committees of principal subsidiaries in line with the The table below sets out the number of meetings new Group Operating Model.
It is chaired by the held and individual directors attendance at Chairman of the Board, Patrick OSullivan, and a meetings of the Board and its principal committees majority of its members nine out of twelve are based on membership of those committees, independent non-executive directors.
rather than attendance as an invitee during 2010.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, which specify its responsibilities, are available on the Companys website.
142 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Board scheduled Group Audit & Remuneration Nomination and ad hoc Board Risk Group Audit Board Risk Committee Committee Number of meetings held: 1925 586 Nigel Andrews 19 19 2 2 5 5 8 8 6 6 Mike Arnold 15 19 1 2 5 5 5 5 4 4 Rudi Bogni 18 19 2 2 5 5 8 8 6 6 Philip Broadley 19 19 5 5 Russell Edey 17 19 2 2 5 5 8 8 6 6 1 1 Alan Gillespie 2 2 0 1 0 1 1 1 2 2 Reuel Khoza 14 19 3 5 3 4 Roger Marshall 6 6 2 2 2 2 2 2 Bongani Nqwababa 18 19 2 2 5 5 5 6 4 4 Patrick OSullivan 19 19 6 6 Lars Otterbeck 17 19 5 5 6 6 4 4 3 Julian Roberts 17 19 6 6 Former director Richard Pym 12 15 2 2 3 3 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 The dates for these meetings had been set before Alan Gillespie joined the Board and he was unable to rearrange prior commitments to attend them.
2 Reuel Khoza did not participate in four Board meetings and two associated meetings of the Board Risk Committee during the year because of potential conicts of interest arising from his position as Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited while the Company was in active negotiations about a possible sale of the Groups stake in that company.
3 Julian Roberts was prevented by illness from attending two Board meetings during the year.
4 A number of Board meetings were held ad hoc at short notice, which prevented some directors from being able to attend them.
In such cases, the Chairman consulted those who could not attend about the business to be conducted at the meeting.
The Chairman and the Group Finance Director The following guidelines have been approved by attended all, and the Group Chief Executive the Group Audit Committee as part of the Groups attended all but two, of the Group Audit and Risk policy on non-audit services: Committee, Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee meetings held during the year at Before accepting a proposed engagement to provide a non-audit service to the Group, the lead the invitation of the Chairmen of those committees but members of management were absent for the audit engagement partner and management will assess the threats to objectivity and independence private session in March between members of the Group Audit and Risk Committee and the auditors.
and consider safeguards to be applied.
Such assessment will be repeated whenever the scope The Group Chief Executive also attended all but two and the Chairman attended all but three of the and objectives of the non-audit service change signicantly.
Before accepting a proposed Remuneration Committee meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of that committee, but engagement to provide a non-audit service to the Group, the audit engagement partner and absented themselves for any matters relating to their own respective remuneration arrangements.
management will: Attendance at committee meetings by persons Q Consider whether it is probable that a other than the members is always at the invitation reasonable and informed third party would of the Chairman of the committee concerned.
regard the proposed engagement as being inconsistent with the objectives of the audit Auditors of the financial statements: During the year ended 31 December 2010, fees Q Identify and assess the signicance of any paid by the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups related threats to the rms objectivity, including auditors, and its associates totalled 13.6 million for any perceived loss of independence: and statutory audit services 2009: 11.9 million, 0.5 Q Identify and assess the effectiveness of the million for other audit and assurance services available safeguards to eliminate or reduce relating to Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded threats to an acceptable level.
Value reporting 2009: 0.5 million, and 6.0 million for tax and other services 2009: 2.8 million.
In Where it is felt probable that an informed party addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a would regard the proposed service as being further 4.3 million 2009: 2.9 million to Deloitte in inconsistent with the objectives of the rm as respect of joint audit arrangements.
auditors, the rm will not be permitted to undertake the non-audit service.
The Company and its auditors have agreed that they will not directly or Old Mutual plc 143 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED indirectly solicit the employment of key senior staff Arrangements have been made, in conjunction and management of each others respective with KPMG Audit Plc, for appropriate audit partner organisations without prior written mutual consent.
or director rotation in accordance with the Partners and directors of the audit rm who have requirements of the UK Auditing Practices Board.
acted as lead partner or as a key audit partner for The current audit engagement director in the UK, the Group will not be permitted to join any Alastair Barbour, joined the audit team as a key company in the Old Mutual Group as a director or audit director in 2005 and succeeded to his in a senior management position until at least two current role in 2008.
During 2011, he will be years after the partner or director concerned succeeded in this position by Philip Smart.
ceased to be associated with the audit.
Internal control environment In addition, the following process governs the Responsibility for internal control provision of non-audit services by the auditors: The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its Q There is a schedule of non-audit services which effectiveness, while the implementation of internal need to be approved in principle on an annual control systems is the responsibility of basis and are reported, as and when provided, management.
Executive management has on a regular basis.
This is in line with the SECs implemented an internal control system designed guidelines on auditor independence: to help ensure: Q All non-audit work costing less than 50,000 Q The effective and efficient operation of the placed with the external auditors is to be Group and its business units by enabling approved by the Head of Group Finance or management to respond appropriately to the business units Chief Financial officer: significant risks to achieving the Groups Q All non-audit work costing over 50,000 placed business objectives: with the external auditors is to be agreed by the Q The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate Group Finance Director or his designate: use or from loss and fraud and ensuring that Q All non-audit work costing over 400,000 liabilities are identied and managed: placed with the external auditors is to be Q The quality of internal and external reporting: and subject to competitive tender and agreed by the Group Finance Director and the Group Chief Q Compliance with applicable laws and Executive: regulations, and with internal policies on the conduct of business.
Q All non-audit work costing over 1 million placed with external auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit Committee: The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to Q Cumulative fees for non-audit services in any financial quarter should not exceed 500,000 achieve the Groups business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, without approval of the Group Audit Committee or its Chairman: and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Q Cumulative fees for non-audit work for the Assessment of the system of internal control Group should not exceed total statutory audit An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and audit-related fees in any year without the managing the significant risks faced by the Group approval of the Group Audit Committee.
has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness The process accords with the Turnbull guidance to continue in ofce as auditors to the Company set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for and, following a recommendation by the Group Directors on the Combined Code the Combined Audit Committee to the Board, a resolution Code being the previous version of the UK proposing their reappointment will be put to the Corporate Governance Code and is regularly AGM.
In reaching its decision to recommend the reviewed by the Board.
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, the Board took into account the fact that the rm had been the Companys auditors since the Group demutualised in 1999 and that appropriate arrangements are in place for the rotation and renewal of key audit personnel.
The Company has not entered into any contractual restriction preventing it from considering a change of auditors and the choice of auditors is kept under review by the Board from year to year, taking into account appropriate benchmarking data.
144 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of determined by a comprehensive, risk-based the system of internal control include: planning process.
The Group Audit Committee approves the annual internal audit plan and any Q An annual review of the risk assessment subsequent amendments.
procedures, control environment considerations, information and communication There are internal audit teams in each of our major and monitoring procedures at Group level and businesses.
The heads of internal audit in the within each business unit.
This review covers all Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries report directly material controls, including financial, operational to the Group Internal Audit Director GIAD.
The and compliance controls and the risk GIAD reports functionally to the Chairman of the management systems: Group Audit Committee and administratively to the Q A certication process, under which all Group Finance Director.
The GIAD attends all business units are required to confirm that they meetings of the Group Audit Committee, and has have undertaken risk management in unrestricted access to the Group Chief Executive accordance with the Group risk framework, that and to the Chairman of the Board, as well as open they have reviewed the effectiveness of the invitations to attend any meetings of the business system of internal controls, that internal policies unit Audit Committees, the Board Risk Committee have been complied with and that no significant and the Group Executive Risk Committee.
risks or issues are known which have not been reported in accordance with policy: and Internal audit teams across Old Mutual use a single Q Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the audit methodology which meets the standards set system of internal control by the Group Audit by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Issues raised Committee, which receives reports from Group by internal audit during the course of its work are Internal Audit.
The Committee also receives discussed with management, who are responsible reports from the external auditors, KPMG Audit for implementing agreed actions to address Plc, which include details of significant internal the issues identied within an appropriate and control matters that they have identied during agreed timeframe.
Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each meeting of the Group Audit Committee, These activities are in addition to the regular risk management activities which are performed on an summarising the results of internal audit activity, managements progress in addressing issues ongoing basis as described in more detail in the Risk and Capital Management report elsewhere in and other significant matters.
An assessment of the effectiveness of GIA is The certication process described above does carried out periodically by external advisers.
not apply to certain joint ventures where the Group does not exercise full management control.
In Other Directors Report matters these cases, Old Mutual monitors the internal Relations with shareholders and analysts control environment and the potential impact on The Company gives high priority to regular, clear the Group through representation on the board of and direct communication with its shareholders, the entity concerned.
institutional investors and sell-side analysts by means of a proactive Investor Relations IR The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the programme.
The programme aims to facilitate system of internal control during and at the end of communication with the global investment the year.
Our annual internal control assessment community, both equity and debt, and to keep has not highlighted any material failings.
We remain investors updated on the Companys performance, committed to having a robust internal control within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus environment across the Group.
and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Group Internal Audit The Company has a dedicated IR team which runs Group Internal Audit GIA is responsible for its IR programme.
Old Mutual continued to providing independent, objective assurance on the increase its communication and engagement with adequacy and effectiveness of Old Mutuals the investment community during 2010.
A total of systems of governance, risk management and 244 meetings were held during the year with internal control to the Board and executive investors and analysts in the UK, South Africa, management and, in doing so, helps enhance the North America and continental Europe, comprising controls culture within the Group.
The work of GIA 193 individual institutions.
This compared with a is focused on the areas of greatest risk, both total of 227 meetings held in 2009.
The majority of current and emerging, to Old Mutual as meetings involved the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director or another member of the senior management team, although greater use Old Mutual plc 145 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED was made of group meetings in order to improve Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is efficiency and provide more institutions with dealt with by a separate resolution and the access to management and also to increase the business of the AGM always includes a resolution efficient use of managements own time.
The relating to the receipt and adoption of the Report Company continued to target smaller institutional and Accounts.
The Chairmen of the Group Audit, investors and those who manage funds for high Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination net worth retail clients and charities in both Europe Committees are available at the AGM to answer and South Africa with a view to diversifying its any questions on the matters covered by those shareholder base.
All the directors in ofce at the date of the meeting attended the AGM in 2010.
In addition, the Company presented at a number of major investor conferences around the world and The notice of AGM and related materials contained held a showcase for institutional investors and in the Report and Accounts or Summary Financial analysts on businesses within the Groups Statements are sent out to shareholders in time to Long-Term Savings division.
The Company also arrive in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 hosted the South African Minister of Finance at its working days before the date of the AGM.
London ofce for a meeting with investors and analysts to discuss the South African economy Directors shareholdings and share dealings The Remuneration Committee has established and outlook.
Copies of all presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts are posted on the guidelines on shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under these, the Group Chief Companys website so that they are accessible to shareholders generally.
Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares in the Company equal in value to at least Currently 13 sell-side analysts from Europe and 150% of his annual base salary within five years of South Africa actively publish research on the appointment: the equivalent gure for other Company.
Other sell-side analysts are encouraged executive directors is 100% of their annual base to cover the Company to help investors assess the salary.
Further details of the executive directors Groups valuation, its performance and the shareholdings are set out under Directors business environment in which it operates, and Interests earlier in this report and of their interests also to make meaningful comparisons with peers.
in awards under the Companys employee share plans are contained in the Remuneration Report.
The Chairman makes contact with major investors The Board has considered whether to adopt a and meets them as required.
The Senior shareholding requirement for non-executive Independent Director is also available for directors, but does not consider this to be interaction with shareholders.
The Board is updated regularly by the IR team on Directors indemnities issues arising from communication with the The Company has entered into formal deeds investment community.
In addition to this, an of indemnity in favour of each of the directors.
independent survey is commissioned regularly A specimen copy of the indemnities is available in which provides the Board with the views of the corporate governance section of the major investors on the Companys management Companys website.
Supplier payment policy General Meetings In most cases, suppliers of goods or services to the The Board uses the AGM to comment on the Group do so under standard terms of contract that Groups trading performance during the first lay down terms of payment.
In other cases, specic quarter of the year.
Shareholders also have the terms are agreed to beforehand.
It is the Groups opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
A policy to ensure that terms of payment are notied record of the AGM proceedings is made available in advance and adhered to.
The Company has on the Companys website shortly after the end of signed the Better Payment Practice Code, an the meeting.
All items of formal business at the initiative promoted by the Department for Business, AGM are conducted on a poll, rather than by a Innovation and Skills in the UK to encourage prompt show of hands.
The Companys registrars, settlement of invoices.
Computershare Investor Services, ensure that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and a The total outstanding indebtedness of the senior member of Computershares staff acts as Company and its service company subsidiary, Old scrutineer to ensure that votes cast are properly Mutual Business Services Limited to trade received and recorded.
creditors at 31 December 2010 amounted to 6,533,000, corresponding to 48 days payments when averaged over 2010.
146 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Charitable contributions Share capital The Group made a wide range of significant The Company has a single class of share capital, donations to charitable causes and social which is divided into Ordinary Shares of 10 pence development projects during 2010, as described in each.
The Companys issued share capital at 31 more detail in the Responsible Business section of December 2010 was 569,522,432.60 divided into this document.
The Company, its subsidiaries in 5,695,224,326 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each the UK, and the Old Mutual Bermuda Foundation 2009: 551,825,295 divided into 5,518,252,950 collectively made charitable donations of 191,000 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
During the during the year 2009: 195,000. year ended 31 December 2010, 5,450,520 shares were issued under the Companys employee share Environmental matters option schemes at an average price of 75.19 pence A description of the Groups environmental impact each, 13,674,225 shares were issued under the and management during 2010 is contained in the scrip dividend alternative for the final dividend for Responsible Business section of this document.
the year ended 31 December 2009 at an effective price of 1.1338 or its equivalent in other Employment policy currencies each, 10,533,182 shares were issued The Groups employment policies reect our belief under the scrip dividend alternative for the interim that motivated and talented individuals are critical dividend for the six months ended 30 June 2010 at to our ability to achieve our business objectives.
an effective price of 1.3822 or its equivalent in We recognise the value that a diverse workforce other currencies each, and 147,313,449 shares brings and believe that it should reect the diversity were issued in February 2010 at an effective price of the markets in which we operate.
We promote of R12.6878 each, in connection with the the fair and consistent treatment of all our acquisition of the minority shareholdings in Mutual employees and encourage equal opportunities and & Federal Insurance Company Limited.
At 31 December 2010, shareholder authorities While local employment policies and procedures were in force enabling the Company to make are developed by each business according to its market purchases of, and or to purchase pursuant own circumstances, employees are recruited, to contingent purchase contracts relating to each retained, developed and rewarded solely on the of the overseas exchanges on which the basis of their suitability for the job, without Companys shares are listed, its own shares up to discrimination in terms of race, religion, national an aggregate of 542,733,000 shares.
No shares origin, colour, gender, age, marital status, sexual were bought back by the Company during 2010. orientation or disability whether in existence at the commencement of employment or developing Out of the 5,695,224,326 shares in issue at subsequently, subject always to employment 31 December 2010: equity considerations in South Africa.
Further Q 239,434,888 shares were held by the Company information on employee matters is set out in the in treasury: and Responsible Business section of this document.
Q 200,880,214 shares were held by African life and asset management subsidiaries of the Political donations Company.
Under UK company law, these The Group made no EU or other political donations shares cannot be voted while they are during the year.
beneficially owned by subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc.
Dividend policy The Board is recommending the payment of a final The total number of voting rights in the Companys dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 of issued ordinary share capital at 31 December 2010 2.9p per share or its equivalent in other relevant which excludes the 239,434,888 shares held in currencies.
A scrip dividend alternative will also be treasury, but includes the shares held by the available for eligible shareholders in relation to this African life and asset management subsidiaries dividend, details of which can be found on the was 5,455,789,438.
In the period 1 January to 7 March 2011, 1,048,183 The Board intends to pursue a progressive further shares were issued by the Company under dividend policy consistent with the Groups its employee share schemes at an average price of strategy and having regard to overall capital 68.37p each.
No shares were bought back during requirements, liquidity and profitability, and that period.
As a result, the Companys issued targeting dividend cover of at least 2.5 times IFRS share capital at 7 March 2011 had increased to AOP earnings over time.
569,627,250.90 divided into 5,696,272,509 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each and the total number of voting rights at that date, after deducting the 239,434,888 treasury shares, was 5,456,837,621.
Old Mutual plc 147 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED Rights and obligations attaching to shares A member who is a corporation may appoint one The following description summarises certain or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general provisions of the Companys current Articles of meeting as a corporate representative.
Where Association the Articles and applicable English more than one corporate representative has been law concerning companies now mainly enshrined appointed, any one of them is entitled to vote and in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
This is a exercise other powers on behalf of the member at summary only: for further information, please see a general meeting or class meeting.
the relevant provisions of the Act or the Articles.
There are currently no restrictions on the voting Issue of shares rights of any member of the Company.
Subject to the Act and the Articles, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms by members of not less than 48 hours Company may by ordinary resolution approve or as the directors may decide.
At each AGM the before the relevant general meeting not excluding non-working days.
Company seeks authority from shareholders for the directors to allot up to a certain amount Dividends and distributions of shares.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company Whenever shares are issued for cash, the may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount Company must offer shares to all shareholders pro rata to their holdings, unless it has been given recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, authority by shareholders to issue shares without applying such pre-emption rights.
The Company whenever the financial position of the Company justifies its payment, in the Boards opinion.
If the seeks authority from its shareholders on an annual basis to issue up to 5% of its issued share capital Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for without observing pre-emption rights, in line with relevant regulations and best practice.
Save for losses arising from the payment of interim or xed dividends on other shares.
those shares issued pursuant to employee share schemes, no shares were issued for cash in 2010 Transfer of shares on a non pre-emptive basis, and the total number Any shares in the Company may be held in of shares issued for cash on a non pre-emptive uncerticated form and title to uncerticated shares basis by the Company over the last three years may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
amounted to less than 7.5% of the Companys Registration of a transfer of an uncerticated share issued share capital over that period.
may be refused in the circumstances set out in the The Companys existing authorities to issue shares Uncerticated Securities Regulations as dened in the Articles and where, in case of a transfer to joint and to do so without observing pre-emption rights are due to expire at the end of this years AGM, holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncerticated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
but an ordinary resolution and a special resolution to approve the renewal of these authorities Any member may transfer all or any of their respectively will be put to shareholders at the certicated shares by an instrument of transfer 2011 AGM.
in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer Voting Every member attending a general meeting in must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a person has one vote in a show of hands.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who certicated share unless the instrument of transfer: tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will Q Is duly stamped or certied or otherwise shown be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt joint shareholders: seniority will be determined by from stamp duty and accompanied by the the order in which the joint holders names are listed relevant share certicate and such other in the register.
Under the Act, members are entitled evidence of the right to transfer it as the to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their Board may reasonably require: rights to attend and to speak and vote on their Q Is in respect of only one class of share: behalf at a general meeting.
Q If to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
Proxies may vote in a poll or a show of hands.
148 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Repurchase of shares significant agreements Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, The following significant agreements to which the the Company may purchase its own shares in Company is a party contain provisions entitling accordance with the Act.
Any shares which have counterparties to exercise termination or other been bought may be held as treasury shares or rights in the event of a change of control of else must be cancelled immediately the purchase is the Company: completed, so reducing the amount of the Q 1,250 million Revolving Credit Facility the Companys issued share capital.
No shares were Facility dated 2 September 2005 of which repurchased by the Company during 2010 or 2011 1,232 million remains available between the up to 7 March 2011.
Company, various syndicate banks the Banks and Lloyds TSB Bank plc as agent the Agent.
Amendments to the Articles If a person or group of persons acting in Any amendments to the Articles of the Company concert gains control of the Company, the may be made in accordance with the provisions of Company must notify the Agent.
The Agent and the Act by way of a special resolution.
New Articles the Company will negotiate with a view to of Association, reecting changes arising from the agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to full implementation of the Act and other company the Company and all of the Banks for continuing law changes, were adopted at the AGM in 2010. the Facility.
If such negotiations fail within 30 days of the original notication to the Agent Appointment and replacement of directors by the Company, the Banks become entitled Under the Articles, directors must be at least four to declare any outstanding indebtedness and not more than 16 in number.
Directors may be repayable by giving notice to the Agent within appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution 15 days of the 30 day period mentioned above.
A director appointed by the Board On receiving notice for payment from the holds ofce only until the next following AGM and Agent, the Company shall pay the outstanding is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
sums within three business days to the relevant Bank s. The Company may by special resolution remove Q Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. the Issuer any director before the expiration of his or her term $750 million 8% Guaranteed Cumulative of ofce.
Directors shall also vacate their ofce in Perpetual Preferred Securities the Preferred certain customary circumstances specified in the Securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis Articles, including voluntary resignation in writing, by the Company.
Under the terms of the ill health or that director becoming bankrupt.
Preferred Securities, the Issuer is required to give notice to the holders of such securities Powers of the directors the Holders in the event of a change of control Subject to the Articles, any legislation and any of the Company.
In such case the Issuer and directions given by special resolution, the business the Company agree, to the extent that such of the Company will be managed by the directors, action is within their reasonable control, who may exercise all the powers of the Company, to vary the terms of the Preferred Securities whether relating to the management of the and the Companys guarantee and to use all business of the Company or not.
In particular, the reasonable endeavours to ensure that the entity Board may exercise all the powers of the Company that has acquired control of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of the Acquirer gives such undertakings as are its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled necessary in order to preserve the rights of the capital and to issue debentures and other Holders.
The Issuer and the Company shall also securities and give security for any debt, liability or take such steps as are in their reasonable obligation of the Company to any third party.
control to ensure that the economic interests of the Holders are not adversely affected by the Shares held in employee benefit trusts actions of the Acquirer following the change The shareholdings in the Company of the Groups of control.
employee benefit trusts and the policies of those trusts on voting those shares are described in the section of the Remuneration Report entitled Employee share ownership trusts.
Old Mutual plc 149 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS CONTINUED Substantial interests in voting rights The Group continues to meet group and individual At 7 March 2011, the following substantial interests entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity in voting rights had been declared to the Company needs through its available free cash and credit in accordance with the Disclosure and facilities.
The Companys primary existing revolving Transparency Rules: credit facility of 1,232 million does not mature until September 2012.
Additionally, during December Number of % of voting 2010, the Company put in place further committed voting rights rights facilities of 275 million to support the Groups Cevian Capital 317,789,951 5.82 liquidity headroom target.
These additional facilities BlackRock 309,952,983 5.68 mature in June 2012, but will fall away upon Public Investment completion of the US Life sale.
The Company also Corporation of the had significant cash holdings, totalling Republic of South 438 million, at the year end.
Africa 307,212,664 5.62 Alliance Bernstein AXA 271,993,778 4.98 A number of factors, including the levels of world Sanlam Investment equity markets, defaults in corporate bond Management Pty portfolios, currency uctuations, demand for the Limited 264,235,775 4.84 Groups products and other economic factors, are Legal & General Group considered individually and in combination in the Plc 192,471,495 3.53 Groups forecasts and projections, taking account Old Mutual Life of reasonably possible changes in trading Assurance Company performance and economic conditions in the South Africa Limited 186,205,999 3.41 markets in which the Group operates.
The results show that the Group should be able to operate Going concern within the level of available credit facilities and with The Groups business activities, together with an adequate level of capital, both at a Group level factors likely to affect its future development, and within each of its major regulated entities.
To performance and position are set out in the the extent that changes in trading performance and Business Review.
The Business Review also economic conditions prove to be more severe than explains the basis on which the Group generates thought reasonably possible, the Group has and preserves value over the longer term and the evaluated and concluded on feasible management strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
actions that would be possible in such The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, circumstances so as to ensure that adequate levels liquidity position and borrowing facilities are of liquid and capital resources are maintained.
described in the Group Finance Directors Statement.
In addition, Note E11 to the Accounts After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has includes the Groups objectives, policies and a reasonable expectation that the Company and processes for managing its capital and set out the Group have adequate resources to continue in details of the risks related to financial instruments operational existence for the foreseeable future.
and insurance risks taken on by the Group.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
150 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Disclosure of information to the auditors The directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Governing law The Group Chief Executives Statement, the Risk and Capital Management report, the Business Review, the Group Finance Directors Statement, the Responsible Business Report and this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other Matters collectively comprise the directors report for the purposes of section 463 1 a of the Companies Act 2006.
The Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report is the directors remuneration report for the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
English law governs the disclosures contained in and liability for the directors report and the directors remuneration report.
By order of the Board Martin Murray Group Company Secretary 8 March 2011 Old Mutual plc 151 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
