Alan Fletcher, ensuring that a majority of the Committees control and risk management systems, monitors and reviews members are independent non-executive directors.
The the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates monitors the relationship between the Group and the for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility external auditors and provides a forum through which the for appointment rests with the Board.
There were no Groups external and internal audit functions report to the meetings of the Committee during the year.
The Committee non executive directors.
The Committee is also responsible only engages in the process of identification of suitable for ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory candidates for appointment to the Board when requested by compliance are effective.
The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the scope and the results of the annual external audit, its cost effectiveness There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, and the independence and objectivity of the external starting with a review of the Board structure, size and auditors.
In recommending the re-appointment of the composition, leading to the preparation of a written job external auditors to the Board, the Committee have specification and the identification of suitable candidates.
The considered their performance and the requirements of the Nomination Committee ensures that prospective nonGroups financial control process and have concluded that the executive directors can devote sufficient time to the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the appointment.
The Board recognises the benefits that can flow external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has from non-executive directors holding other appointments but not identified any factors which might restrict its choice of requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before external auditor.
entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The choice of appointee would Both the Audit and Compliance Committee and the external be based entirely on merit.
auditors have in place safeguards to avoid compromises of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate The Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief external auditors to supply non-audit services.
It meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could counterparty exposures.
impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of Groups financial statements.
The policy incorporates a functions and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
comprehensive system for reporting to the Audit and It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit Compliance Committee all proposals considered and the policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
level of fees payable to the external auditors for the provision of non-audit services.
In pursuance of this All Board committees operate within defined terms of reference policy other accounting firms have been engaged for and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake particular assignments.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, compliance functions.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate The Chairman, the executive directors, Director of Financial balance of power and authority between executive and nonAccounting and Group Company Secretary, Director of executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the Business Analysis and Planning, Director of Legal Services, skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Head of Internal Audit and a partner from the external Groups business activities.
auditors normally attend meetings of the Committee.
During the year ended 30 September 2010 there were three There is an established process for external appointments meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee, all of through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment which were attended by Christopher Newell and Alan of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director Fletcher and two of which were attended by Terence Eccles appointments are based upon merit and business need.
executive appointments are based upon the candidates profiles The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, matching those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and three noncases the Board approves the appointment only after executive directors, Christopher Newell, Edward Tilly and careful consideration.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 37 The Board, individual directors and Board committees are The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full appraised annually.
The performance of the Chief Executive is programme of meetings with institutional investors during the appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other course of the year and investors comments are communicated to executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in all members of the Board.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides determination of remuneration.
access to information on the Company and its businesses.
During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review facilitated by an external company.
All Board Accountability and audit directors participated and considered a list of questions on Board and Committee performance.
The evaluation process was Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main followed by a Board discussion.
business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to the Directors Report on pages 14 to 17 to present a balanced and shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any understandable assessment of the Companys position non-executive director, that, following formal performance and prospects.
evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 33.
The non-executive directors meet at least annually to review the performance of the Chairman.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2010 Directors remuneration and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of system of internal control for this period and that these executive directors and members of senior management prior procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: to determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
performance bonuses and share options for the Boards determination.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such Remuneration is on pages 22 to 32. a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of Relations with shareholders material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what The Board encourages communication with the Companys constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least relationship between the cost and benefits from particular aspects twenty working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at of the control system.
which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during The system of internal control includes documented procedures business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel report to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of counted and the balance for and against each resolution key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular is announced.
meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
38 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is Going concern basis provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, The business activities of the Group, its current operations and to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of those factors likely to affect its future results and development, financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for together with a description of its financial position and funding external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing position, are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
6 and Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 11.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to Internal control over financial reporting includes polices and mitigate against these risks are described on pages 40 to 41. procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reflect transactions and Note 5 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that working capital position and policies, while note 6 includes a transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies expenditures are only being made in accordance with and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 4. acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
As described under Accountability and Audit above, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review, Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have which provides information to the directors which is used to inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future its business objectives.
periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree Substantially all of the Groups remaining loan portfolios are of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
funded through securitisation structures and are thus match-funded to maturity.
None of the Groups debt matures The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance before 2017, when the 110.0 million corporate bond is and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk repayable.
As a consequence the directors believe that the Group management process, from which the key risks facing the is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the current uncertain economic outlook.
Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The system of internal control is monitored by management and preparing the annual report and accounts.
by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 39 Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which Operational risk could have a material impact on the Groups performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and The activities of the Group subject it to operational risks relating historical results.
The Groups system of risk management, which to its ability to implement and maintain effective systems to includes risk review and an active internal audit function, is process the high volume of transactions with customers.
monitored by the Audit and Compliance Committee as described A significant breakdown of the IT systems of the Group in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report on might adversely impact the ability of the Group to operate its pages 36 to 39. business effectively.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed include To address these risks, the Groups internal audit function carries the following: out targeted reviews of critical systems to ensure that they remain adequate for their purpose.
The Group has a business continuity plan, which is kept under regular review and is designed to Economic environment ensure that any breakdown in systems would not cause significant disruption to the business.
Further deterioration in the general economy may adversely affect all aspects of the Groups business.
Adverse economic conditions might increase the number of borrowers that default Competitor risk on their loans, which may increase the Groups costs and could result in losses on some of the Groups assets.
The Group faces strong competition in all of the core markets in which it operates.
There is a danger that its profitability and or The general economic factors affecting the Group in the period market share may be impaired.
going forward, together with the steps taken by the Groups management to address these issues are described in more detail To mitigate this risk the Group maintains relationships with its in the Chairmans statement on pages 5 to 6 and the Chief customers, business introducers and other significant participants Executives review on pages 7 to 11. in the markets in which it is active, as well as being active in industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables market Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Groups net trends to be identified and addressed within the relevant income and profitability.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate business strategy.
against the long term effects of interest rate movements, through the structuring of its products and the use of hedging procedures are described in note 6 to the accounts.
Governmental, legislative and regulatory risk The market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and Credit risk the capital markets from which it has historically obtained much of its funding, have been subject to intervention by United Kingdom As a primary lender the Group faces credit risk as an inherent Government, European Union and other regulatory bodies.
component of its lending activities.
Adverse changes in the credit Current regulatory developments are discussed in the section of quality of the Groups borrowers, a general deterioration in UK the Chief Executives Review headed Regulation on page 10.
To economic conditions or adverse changes arising from systematic the extent that such actions disadvantage the Group, when risks in financial systems could reduce the recoverability and compared to other market participants, they present a risk to value of the Groups assets.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the In order to mitigate this risk the Group has been active in systems in place to mitigate that risk are described in the section explaining its position to the authorities in order that it is not of note 6 to the accounts entitled Credit Risk.
40 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
