38 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Payment of Creditors It has been and will remain the Companys policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
The Company and its subsidiarys policy is to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
In general the Company agrees with its other suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 April 2010.
Service Providers Apart from the arrangements with Polar Capital LLP to provide investment, company secretarial and administrative services including accounting, portfolio valuation and trade settlement, the Company also contracts directly with JP Morgan Chase NA which acts as global custodian for all the Companys investments.
The Company also retains the services of Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker, Equiniti Limited as the registrars and  LLP as tax advisers and independent auditors.
HSBC Securities Services UK Limited has been retained by the Investment Manager to provide the accounting, valuation and trade settlement services and BNP Paribas Securities Services is retained by the Investment Manager, on behalf of the Company and at the Companys expense, to provide a share savings arrangement and an ISA.
Huguenot Services Limited provide web design and hosting services.
Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as the Companys Statutory Auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The fees paid to the Auditors in respect of the audit of the annual accounts amounted to 27,000 2009: 28,000.
The Company has also used  LLP to give advice on VAT recoverability, Section 1158, and other taxation issues.
These other taxation services are provided by the Newcastle ofce while the audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh and London ofces.
The fees paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 55,000 2009: 25,000.
The Directors do not consider the provision of this non-audit work to the Company affects the independence of the Auditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 28 July 2010 at 12.30pm at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions to receive the accounts, approve the Directors remuneration report, re-appoint retiring Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
For the AGM in 2010 there are two additional items of business being proposed, one is an ordinary resolution for the continued life of the Company and the other is a special resolution to adopt new Articles of Association.
The full text of all the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Report on Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code.
As an investment company most of the day to day responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the Company has no employees and all the directors are non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the Combined Code are not directly applicable to the Company and the Board has determined that reporting against the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code which incorporates the Combined Code, provides the most appropriate information to shareholders.
The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2009 that by following the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Polar Capital Technology Trust PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
indd 38 17 06 2010 06:44 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance 39 Copies of these codes can be obtained from the relevant organisations.
The Companys policies on corporate governance can be found on its website.
The corporate governance report describes how the principles of the Combined Code and the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the AIC have been applied.
Background and development The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the Company.
Application of the AIC codes principles The Board attaches great importance to the matters contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant requirements throughout the year under review.
The Board believes that the Companys current practices are consistent in all material respects with the principles of the AIC Code and where non compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will continue to observe the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
It should be noted that, as an investment trust where the Directors are non-executive, most of the Companys day to day duties are delegated to third parties.
The Company has agreed policies and operating procedures with the suppliers of these services.
Directors and Board: independence and composition The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Companys affairs and currently consists of six non-executive Directors five of whom are considered independent.
All the Directors held ofce throughout the year.
Each Director has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
The Directors biographies, set out on page 29, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 47 to 49.
The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Board also recognises the value of progressive refreshing of and succession planning for company boards.
Accordingly the appointment of each Director retiring at the forthcoming AGM has been reviewed by the Nomination Committee prior to submission for re-appointment.
The Boards policy on tenure for Directors states that, in line with the Combined Code, any Director who has served for over nine years should stand for annual re-appointment.
The Board is of the opinion that long service does not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can signicantly benefit a board.
Re-appointment of Directors at the AGM Five Directors stand for re-appointment at the AGM in 2010 and the Nomination Committee of the Board has considered each Director.
Under the provisions of the Articles of Association Mr Moule and Mr Montagu stand for re-appointment as this will be the third AGM since they were last re-appointed.
Both Mr Moule and Mr Montagu were appointed to the Board in 2007.
Mr Wakeling and Mr Dicks stand for annual re-appointment in line with the corporate governance policy as each has served more than nine years.
They were both appointed to the Board in 1996.
indd 39 17 06 2010 06:44 DIRECTORS REPORT 40 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Mr Brian Ashford-Russell, who has also been on the Board for more than nine years, stands for annual re-appointment as required by the Listing Rules due to his association with the Investment Manager.
Mr Ashford-Russell has been a Director since 1996.
The Nomination Committee, as part of the Director and Board performance evaluation, has carefully reviewed and rigorously assessed the contribution of each Director standing for re-appointment and their independence.
They determined that each Director continued to offer relevant experience, effectively contributed to the operation of the Board and had demonstrated independent views on a range of subjects.
All the Directors, with the exception of Mr Ashford-Russell, were considered independent of the Investment Manager and had no relationship or conicts which were likely to affect their judgment.
The Board, on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee, supports each of the Directors standing for re-appointment and considers that the overall composition of the Board is adequate for the effective governance of the Company.
Further, the Board considers itself independent as five of its Directors are independent of the Investment Manager, despite two of those Directors having served for more than nine years.
Directors interests Mr Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP and a shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of Polar Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in the investment management contract.
He is therefore not considered to be an independent Director.
However, the Board values the fact that Mr Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively involved in the day to day management of the portfolio, serves as a Director of the Company and gives the Directors and shareholders the benefit of his experience and knowledge.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and has no conicting relationships.
Mr Gamble and Mr Moule have a common directorship at another investment trust but this is not considered to affect their ability to act independently.
No Director, except Mr Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There were no other contracts during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
Conicts of interests The Companies Act 2006 the Act imposes a duty on directors to avoid a situation in which they have or could have a conict of interest or possible conict with the interests of the Company, the Company introduced additional procedures to handle such situations.
Under the Act public companies may authorise conicts or potential conicts if the Articles of Association contain provisions to this effect.
The Articles of Association give the Directors the authority to deal with conicts of interest.
The Board has always had in place policies to govern situations where a potential conict of interests may arise, in particular where a Director is also a director of a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
Where such a situation arises, these Directors are excluded from any discussions or decisions relating to investments in their respective companies.
Each Director has provided the Company with a statement of all conicts of interest and potential conicts of interest.
These have been approved by the Board and recorded in a register.
The Board may impose conditions on authorising any conict or potential conict situations.
Each Director has agreed to notify the Chairman and the Company Secretary of any changes to his circumstances which would impact on the notied conicts or potential conicts and obtain approval before entering into any situation which might give rise to a conict or potential conict with the interests of the Company.
Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their obligations to notify any changes in their statement of conicts and also to declare any benets from third parties in their capacity as a Director of the Company which might give rise to a conict or potential conict with the Companys interests.
No Director has declared receipt of any benets other than his emoluments in his capacity as a Director of the Company.
indd 40 17 06 2010 06:44 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance 41 Only Directors not involved in the conict or potential conict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into account their duty to promote the Companys success.
The Board as part of its year-end has considered the register of conicts, any conditions imposed on such conicts or potential conicts and the operation of the notication and authorisation process.
They concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
Except as disclosed above in relation to Mr Brian Ashford-Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director is or was interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business or to the Director.
Role and responsibilities Six scheduled Board meetings are held each year to deal with the stewardship of the Company and other matters including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and performance, review of financial statements, approval of borrowing limits within which the Investment Manager has discretion to act, and shareholder issues including investor relations.
The level of share price discount or premium to net asset value together with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares including the use of treasury shares are kept under review along with matters affecting the industry and the evaluation of third party service providers.
A full days strategy meeting is held each year where past performance attribution is examined and future investment ideas are discussed.
Additional meetings of the Board are arranged as required.
A formal schedule of matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board has been dened.
The Board has delegated to a number of committees specic remits for consideration and recommendation but the final responsibility in these areas remains with the Board.
A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the past year.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 May 2009 to 30 April 2010 Board & Management off site Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Number of Meetings 7 3 211 R Wakeling 7 3 2 1 n a B Ashford-Russell 7 3 2 1 n a P Dicks 6 3111 D Gamble 7 3 2 1 n a M Moule 7 3 211 R Montagu 6 2 1 Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation Mr Dicks missed a Board meeting and Management Engagement Committee in October 2009 due to being overseas on another business commitment.
Mr Montagu missed a Board meeting, Management Engagement Committee meeting and Remuneration Committee meeting due to the travel disruption caused by a volcanic eruption in Iceland.
In both these cases the respective Directors discussed their views with the Chairman of the Board or Committee so that their comments could be considered by the other Directors.
All Directors in ofce at the date of the meeting attended the 2009 AGM, held on 29 July 2009.
indd 41 17 06 2010 06:44 DIRECTORS REPORT 42 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Investment Manager The Board has contractually delegated the management of the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP the Investment Manager.
It is the Investment Managers sole responsibility to take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments other than unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within the limits established and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has directly appointed the custodian and the registrars, both of which the Investment Manager monitors and the Investment Manager provides or procures the provision of accountancy services, company secretarial and administrative services and the share savings scheme arrangements.
The Investment Manager also ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Senior Independent Director The Board elected Mr Dicks to act as the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Dicks can be contacted via the Registered Ofce of the Company.
Board Committees The Board has created four standing committees whose terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad hoc committees from time to time to enact or approve policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Board.
Copies of the terms of reference for each of the standing committees are available on the Companys website.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets three times a year and comprises of all the independent non-executive Directors.
The Board reviewed the composition of the Audit Committee and has determined that Mr Moule should become chairman of the Committee with effect from April 2010.
Mr Wakeling was invited to remain on the Committee due to experience as he has previously served as a finance director of two public companies.
None of the members of the Committee has any involvement in the preparation of the accounts of the Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment Manager.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope of the annual audit, the annual accounts and the interim report, the terms of appointment of the Auditors and their remuneration as well as any non-audit services provided by the Auditors.
It meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Committee also considers the internal controls and risk management systems applicable to the Company.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the Auditors and to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
The Audit Committee meets with the Auditors each April to review the scope of the annual audit work and meets again each June to review the findings of the Auditors and the annual report and accounts prior to approval by the Board.
The Committee also meets, without the Auditors present, in December to consider the half-year report.
The independence and effectiveness of the Auditors and the nature of the services provided have therefore been assessed throughout the year and the provision of non-audit services provided by the Auditors have been kept under review.
These nonaudit services comprised the provision of specialist tax advice on matters relating to Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 formally section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 VAT recovery and recovery of withholding taxes which was provided by a separate ofce of the Audit rm.
Details of fees paid to the Auditors are given in note 8 on page 65.
indd 42 17 06 2010 06:44 Directors Report Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance 43 The Audit Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditor.
In doing so the Audit Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the external auditors to tender for the audit work.
The auditors are required to rotate the audit partner every five years and a new audit partner was introduced for this years audit of the financial statements.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company Law the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee has recommended the re-appointment of the Auditors at the AGM.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee meets at least annually and at such other times as may be necessary.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the terms of the investment management contract which is reviewed annually and the Committee also considers, prior to making its recommendation to the Board, whether the retention of the Investment Manager is in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee also considers other matters to do with the relationship with the Investment Manager.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises of all the independent non-executive Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the Board as well as succession planning and tenure policy for Directors.
Succession planning will be conducted bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on the Board and the Committee will make recommendations to the Board when the further recruitment of non-executive Directors is required.
Once a decision has been made that additional directors are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from suggestions put forward by the other Directors and by the use of external agencies.
The final selection will be made by the Board following recommendations by the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the performance of the Board as a whole and each individual Director.
Re-appointment as a Director is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors performance.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of the Combined Code for the rigorous review of Directors serving over six years and annual re-appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless the Board shares the view of the AIC that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can signicantly strengthen a board.
All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors will stand for election at the first AGM following their appointment and will retire at every third AGM after their last election.
The Directors who are subject to annual re-appointment due to length of service would be subject to rigorous assessment of their contribution.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Dicks, the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Moule and Mr Montagu were elected Committee members from April 2007.
The Committee normally meets at least annually and is responsible for recommending the framework for the remuneration of Directors.
The Committee reviews the ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy and the individual remuneration of Directors based on their contributions.
The fees paid to Directors are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49.
