48 Governance Governance The new UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out guidance on how companies should operate a good corporate governance structure.
The FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose how they have applied the principles and provisions set out in the Code throughout the year and explain any areas of non-compliance.
John van Kuffeler Ken Mullen Non-executive Chairman General Counsel and Company Secretary Contents Options are outstanding under the Provident Share capital Financial Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 Increase in issued ordinary share capital 48 Share capital the ESOS.
Awards are also outstanding under During the year, the ordinary share capital in issue 49 Directors the Provident Financial Long Term Incentive increased by 1,272,980 shares to 135,671,861 Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the Provident 50 Directors interests shares.
Details are set out on page 120 in note 24 in shares Financial Performance Share Plan the PSP.
of the notes to the financial statements.
50 Employee involvement As set out on pages 66 and 67 of the directors Employee savings-related share option schemes 50 Environmental, social remuneration report, the remuneration committee The current scheme for employees resident in the and governance matters did not grant any options during the year under UK is the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings- 51 Health and safety the ESOS or the LTIS.
Related Share Option Scheme 2003 the 2003 51 Equal opportunities scheme.
There are no options outstanding under The Provident Financial Qualifying Employee the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related 52 Supplier policy Share Ownership Trust the QUEST Share Option Scheme 1993 the 1993 scheme, statement The QUEST, a discretionary trust for the benefit and no further options can be granted under the 52 Financial instruments of group directors and employees, was established 1993 scheme.
52 Additional disclosures to operate in conjunction with the 1993 scheme and the 2003 scheme.
The trustee, Provident The current scheme for employees resident in the 53 Disclosure of Financial Trustees Limited, is a subsidiary of the Republic of Ireland is the Provident Financial plc information to auditors company.
As at 31 December 2010, the trustee International Employee Savings-Related Share 53 Auditors held no ordinary shares in the company 2009: nil, Option Scheme.
53 Annual general meeting and as a consequence, the QUEST has now been wound up.
Further details on the QUEST are set Executive share incentive schemes out on page 120 in note 24 of the notes to the Options are outstanding under the Provident financial statements.
Financial plc Unapproved Senior Executive Share Option Scheme 1996 the 1996 scheme but Provident Financial plc 2007 no options are outstanding under the Provident Employee Benefit Trust the EBT Financial plc Senior Executive Share Option Scheme The EBT, a discretionary trust for the benefit of 1995 the 1995 scheme.
No further options may be granted under the 1995 scheme or the group directors and employees, was established on 1996 scheme.
11 September 2007 and operates in conjunction with the LTIS.
The trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, is not a subsidiary of the company.
The EBT has previously purchased shares in the market for the purpose of the LTIS and, following the passing of a resolution at the 2008 AGM, is able to subscribe for the issue of new shares.
The number Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 49 of shares held by the EBT at any time, when added Authority to purchase shares to the number of shares held by any other trust At the 2010 AGM, the shareholders authorised established by the company for the benefit of the company to purchase up to 13,441,617 of employees, will not exceed 5% of the issued share its ordinary shares up until 4 November 2011 or, capital of the company.
The EBT is funded by loans if earlier, the conclusion of the next annual general from the company which are then used to acquire meeting.
No shares were purchased pursuant to ordinary shares to satisfy conditional share awards this authority.
A further authority for the company granted under the LTIS.
For the purpose of the to purchase its own shares will be sought from financial statements, the EBT is consolidated into shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to be held the company and group.
As a consequence, the on 4 May 2011. loans are eliminated and the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from equity as set out in Power to allot shares for cash note 26 on page 124 of the financial statements.
At the 2010 AGM, the shareholders authorised the directors to allot equity securities as defined by the On 12 April 2010, the company provided a loan Companies Act 2006 for cash up to an aggregate of 176,110 to the EBT for the purpose of acquiring nominal amount of 1,393,040.
A further authority ordinary shares of 20 p in the company.
The for the directors to allot equity securities for cash EBT subscribed for the issue of 849,654 new shares will be sought from shareholders at the forthcoming on 12 April 2010 in order to satisfy the awards AGM to be held on 4 May 2011. made under the LTIS on 12 April 2010.
Substantial shareholdings On 15 June 2010, the company provided a further On the basis of the information available to the loan of 2,374 to the EBT for the purposes of company as at 1 March 2011, the following acquiring ordinary shares of 20 p in the company.
investment managers through segregated managed The EBT subscribed for the issue of 11,458 new funds have interests though not necessarily shares in order to satisfy the awards made under the beneficial ownership in aggregate amounting to LTIS on 15 June 2010.
As at 31 December 2010 the over 3% 5% for investment trusts and collective EBT held the non-beneficial interest in 2,638,457 investment companies in the issued ordinary share shares in the company 2009: 2,452,799. capital of the company: Invesco Limited 23.22% Provident Financial Employee Benefit Trust the PF Trust Schroder Investment Management Limited 9.78% The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for the benefit M&G Investment Management Limited 7.73% of group directors and employees, was established Marathon Asset Management Limited 5.02% on 31 January 2003 and operates in conjunction Tweedy Browne Company LLC 5.00% with the PSP.
The trustee, Provident Financial Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.98% Trustees Performance Share Plan Limited, is a Baillie Gifford & Co. 3.93% subsidiary of the company.
The number of shares held by the PF Trust at any time, when added to the Directors number of shares held by any other trust established The directors of the company as at 31December 2010, by the company for the benefit of employees, will are listed on pages 46 and 47.
They all served as not exceed 5% of the issued share capital of the directors throughout 2010 and up to the date of company.
As at 31 December 2010, the PF Trust had signing of the financial statements.
no interest in any shares in the company 2009: nil.
During the year no director had a material interest The PF Trust has previously purchased shares in the in any contract of significance to which the company market and subscribed for shares for the purpose or a subsidiary undertaking was a party.
of satisfying awards granted under the PSP.
When the PF Trust purchases or subscribes for shares, it is The companys articles of association the articles funded by loans from the company which are then permit it to indemnify directors of the company used to acquire ordinary shares for the purposes of or of any associated company in accordance with satisfying share awards granted under the PSP.
The company may fund the purposes of the financial statements, the PF expenditure incurred by directors in defending Trust is consolidated into the company and group.
If such funding is by As a consequence, the loans are eliminated and means of a loan, the director must repay the loan the cost of the shares acquired is deducted from to the company if he she is convicted of any criminal equity as set out in note 26 on page 124 of the proceedings or judgment is given against him her in financial statements.
No awards were made under any civil proceedings.
The company may indemnify the PSP in 2010 and therefore no loan was made any director of the company or of any associated to the PF Trust.
However, the company Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 50 Governance continued may not provide an indemnity against any liability Details of options granted to and exercised by The company incurred by the director to the company or to any directors are set out on page 73 of the directors encourages associated company: against any liability incurred by remuneration report.
Details of conditional share employee the director to pay a criminal or regulatory penalty: awards made to directors are set out on page 71 or against any liability incurred by the director in of the directors remuneration report.
involvement in defending criminal proceedings in which he she the companys is convicted: or in defending any civil proceedings There were no changes in the beneficial or brought by the company or an associated company non-beneficial interests of the directors activities and in which judgment is given against him her: or in between 1 January 2011 and 1 March 2011. performance.
connection with certain court applications under the Companies Act 2006.
No indemnity was provided Employee involvement and no payments pursuant to these provisions were The company encourages employee involvement made in 2010 or at any time up to 1March 2011. in the companys activities and performance through operating company newsletters, weekly Directors interests in shares performance updates, regular management team The beneficial interests of the directors in the briefings, staff meetings and conferences including issued share capital of the company were as follows: trade union meetings in those companies which recognise unions.
The company carries out employee Number of shares engagement surveys on a regular basis.
Details of 31 December 31 December the surveys are included in the corporate social 2010 2009 responsibility report on page 42.
John van Kuffeler 14,000 9,000 1 The company operates two savings-related share Peter Crook 621,365 554,943 option schemes referred to on page 48, aimed 1 Andrew Fisher 452,207 412,122 at encouraging employees involvement and interest 1 Chris Gillespie 435,555 370,438 in the financial performance and success of the Rob Anderson 3,500 group through share ownership.
1,398 employees are currently saving to buy shares in the company Robert Hough 7,500 1,425 under these schemes 2009: 1,419.
Manjit Wolstenholme 5,663 5,663 1 These interests include conditional share awards granted The group operates two pension schemes.
under the LTIS, awards under the PSP and deferred shares Involvement in the group defined benefit pension under the Deferred Bonus Scheme as detailed on pages scheme is achieved by the appointment of member- 66 to 68 of the directors remuneration report.
nominated trustees and by regular newsletters and communications from the trustees to members.
In No director had any non-beneficial holdings addition, there is a website dedicated to pension at 31 December 2010 or at any time up until matters.
The group also operates a stakeholder 1 March 2011. pension plan for employees who joined the group from 1 January 2003.
Employees in this plan receive The EBT operates in conjunction with the LTIS and regular newsletters and have access to a dedicated the beneficial interest in shares is transferred from website which provides information on their funds.
the EBT to directors and employees when conditional share awards are made.
Full vesting of such shares The company is fully committed to encouraging is subject to the achievement of the performance employees at all levels to study for relevant targets set out on page 66 of the directors educational qualifications and to training employees remuneration report.
at all levels in the group.
The PF Trust operates in conjunction with the Environmental, social and governance matters PSP and the beneficial interest in shares is transferred During the year, the company made donations from the PF Trust to directors and employees when for charitable purposes of 1,190,619 2009: awards are made.
Full vesting of such shares is 1,046,841.
The group invested a further subject to the achievement of the performance 277,368 2009: 282,576 in support of target set out on page 67 of the directors community programmes based on the London remuneration report.
No political donations were made during the year 2009: nil.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 51 Further information on the groups corporate Health and safety The board has responsibility activities is set out on pages 42 to 45 of The group attaches great importance to the health approved a the directors report and on the companys website.
and safety of its employees, to the self-employed agents it engages and other people who may be group-wide The significance of environmental, social and affected by its activities.
health and safety governance ESG matters to the businesses of policy and a the group is regularly considered by the board.
The board has approved a group-wide health and A corporate affairs activity report, which includes safety policy and a framework for health and safety.
framework for corporate responsibility and community affairs Each divisional board is responsible for the issue and health and safety.
sections, is presented at each board meeting.
implementation of its own health and safety policy The Chief Executive, Peter Crook, has responsibility in order to comply with the divisions day to day for this area.
responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is considered regularly at divisional board meetings The groups risk management processes, details and each divisional board produces a formal written of which are set out on pages 57 to 58 of the key report on compliance with the group-wide health governance principles section of the directors and safety policy and framework which is reviewed report, enable the board to review and manage annually by the board at its meeting in February.
material risks arising from ESG matters.
The board has systems in place to identify and manage An annual audit of the health and safety policies significant ESG risks and considers that it has established by the Consumer Credit Division, in particular those relating to agent safety, is carried adequate information relating to these.
out by the companys insurer, Chartis.
The results of the 2010 audit indicated that there continued There are no specific remuneration incentives in to be an excellent understanding of company the group based on ESG matters.
However, the expectations, rules and procedures in relation annual bonus scheme for executive directors to health and safety throughout the Consumer comprises specific personal objectives, and ESG Credit Division, with communication and training matters are considered when setting these on health and safety matters working effectively.
Details of this are set out page 65 The majority of the recommendations made as a of the directors remuneration report.
Details of result of the audit in 2009 were implemented in training for directors are set out on page 57 of 2010 and further recommendations to enhance the key governance principles section of the the current processes following the 2010 audit directors report.
will be implemented during the course of 2011.
The company has a well-established corporate Equal opportunities responsibility programme which continues to play The company is committed to equal opportunities a key role in delivering the strategy to build a in recruitment, promotion and employment and profitable and sustainable business.
The programme does not discriminate on the basis of age, gender, continues to be informed by the companys key disability, religion or belief, nationality, ethnic or stakeholders to ensure that it responds to their needs racial origin, sexual orientation or marital status.
The management of the companys corporate responsibility programme is The company gives full and fair consideration to carried out in-house, with support provided by applications for employment from disabled persons a number of working groups across the group where they have the appropriate skills and abilities.
which oversee the delivery of a range of corporate It is the policy of the group that the training, responsibility activities.
The companys community career development and promotion opportunities involvement activities, environmental management of disabled persons should be, as far as possible, programme and annual corporate responsibility identical to those of other employees.
report are subject to processes of independent assurance and audit to, among other things, verify In the event of an employee becoming disabled, the companys performance against established every effort is made to ensure that their employment standards and to give stakeholders confidence with the group continues and employees are that the companys stated corporate responsibility retrained where necessary to enable them to objectives and targets are being delivered.
perform work identified as appropriate and tailored, where practicable, for their specific needs, aptitudes and abilities.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 52 Governance continued Supplier policy statement Rules about the appointment and replacement of The company The company agrees terms and conditions for its directors are set out in the articles and on page is committed business transactions with suppliers and payment 56 of the key governance principles section of this to equal is made in accordance with these, subject to the report.
The directors powers are conferred on them terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
by UK legislation and by the articles.
Changes to the opportunities articles must be approved by shareholders passing in recruitment, The company acts as a holding company and had a special resolution and must comply with the no trade creditors at 31 December 2010 or at provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the promotion and 31 December 2009.
The average number of days FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
credit taken by the group during the year was 15 days 2009: 17 days.
Details of the authority of the company to issue and purchase shares of the company are set out Financial instruments on page 49 of the governance report.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and the exposure of the There are no agreements between any group group to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk company and any of its employees or any director and foreign exchange rate risk are included on pages of any group company which provide for 90 to 92 of the financial statements.
compensation to be paid to an employee or a director for termination of employment or for Additional disclosures loss of office as a consequence of a takeover of the company.
Details of the companys issued share capital are set out on page 120 in note 24 of the notes to There are no significant agreements to which the financial statements and details of significant the company is a party that take effect, alter shareholdings are set out on page 49 of this report.
or terminate upon a change of control following All of the companys issued ordinary shares are fully a takeover bid for the company.
paid up and rank equally in all respects and there are no special rights with regard to control of the Directors responsibilities in relation company.
The rights attached to them, in addition to to the financial statements those conferred on their holders by law, are set out The following statement, which should be read in in the companys articles.
There are no restrictions conjunction with the independent auditors report on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise on page 128, is made to distinguish for shareholders of voting rights attached to them, except: i where the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the company has exercised its right to suspend their the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested The directors are responsible for preparing the in them to provide the company with information annual report, the directors remuneration report requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the and the financial statements in accordance with Companies Act 2006: or ii where their holder applicable law and regulations.
is precluded from exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authoritys FSA Listing Rules The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors have prepared the financial statements Details of the EBT and the PF Trust, which are in accordance with International Financial Reporting operated in accordance with the companys Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
executive share incentive schemes, are set out on The financial statements are required to give a true pages 48 to 49 of this report.
As at 31 December and fair view of the state of affairs of the company 2010, the PF Trust did not hold any shares in the and the group and of the profit or loss of the company and the EBT, which cannot hold more than company and the group for that period.
5% of the issued share capital of the company, may exercise or refrain from exercising any voting rights in its absolute discretion and is not obliged to exercise such voting rights in a manner requested by the employee beneficiaries.
Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 53 In preparing these financial statements, the directors Disclosure of information to auditors The Annual Report are required to: i select suitable accounting In the case of each person who is a director at the & Financial policies and then apply them consistently: ii make date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as judgments and estimates that are reasonable and the director is aware, there is no relevant audit Statements 2010 prudent: iii state that the financial statements information of which the companys auditors are will be published comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, unaware: and he she has taken all reasonable steps on the companys subject to any material departures disclosed and that ought to have been taken as a director in explained in the financial statements: and iv order to make himself herself aware of any relevant website in addition prepare the financial statements on a going concern audit information and to establish that the to the normal basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
group will continue in business, in which case there This confirmation is given and should be interpreted paper version.
in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 should be supporting assumptions or qualifications of the Companies Act 2006. as necessary.
Auditors The directors are also required by the FSAs A resolution to reappoint  Disclosure and Transparency Rules to include a LLP PwC as auditors to the company will be management report containing a fair review of proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the business of the group and the company and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Annual general meeting facing the group and company.
The AGM will be held at 10.30am on 4 May 2011 at the offices of Provident Financial plc, The directors are responsible for keeping proper No.
1 Godwin Street, Bradford, West Yorkshire accounting records that disclose with reasonable BD1 2SU.
The Notice of Meeting, together with accuracy at any time the financial position of the an explanation of the items of business, will be company and group and enable them to ensure contained in a circular to shareholders to be that the financial statements and the directors dated 25March 2011. remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 will be published on the companys website in addition to the normal paper version.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules statement Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 46 to 47, confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge and belief, the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group and company, and that the directors report contained in this Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010
