54 Governance: Key governance principles Key governance principles Dear Shareholder This section of the report deals with how the board and its committees discharge their respective responsibilities and how John van Kuffeler Non-executive Chairman the company applies the principles of good governance which are set out in Contents the new UK Corporate Governance Code 54 Chairmans letter 55 Section A of the Code: the Code Leadership 56 Section B of the Code: The board has always been committed to achieving a high level of corporate Effectiveness governance and the changes required to our processes in light of the Code 57 S ection C of the Code: are minimal.
The only major changes relate to the annual reappointment of Accountability all directors which we intend to introduce at the 2011 AGM, and the external performance review of the board at least every three years.
60 S ection D of the Code: Remuneration In 2010, we carried out the first external board and committee evaluation, 60 S ection E of the Code: which confirmed that the board consisted of a sound, experienced and diverse Relations with mix of directors with an appropriate and varied skill set.
It also confirmed Shareholders that the board functions effectively with a strong corporate governance and regulatory awareness.
A small number of minor administrative proposals, to improve the smooth running of the board meetings, were made and these have been implemented.
I am pleased with the overall performance of the board during 2010, and continue to believe that the members of the board collectively have the necessary skill set which is suited to the business and its overall strategy.
I am confident that the board will continue to lead the company effectively in 2011 and ensure that an appropriate level of challenge exists at all times.
John van Kuffeler Chairman Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 55 The company complied with the main and The Chief Executive is primarily responsible for The executive supporting principles set out in Section 1 of implementing the companys strategy, as well committee, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as being a focal point for communication with June 2008, and with the provisions of the Code shareholders.
He also chairs the board of Vanquis comprising the throughout 2010, even though compliance with Bank Limited.
three executive the Code is only required from 1 January 2011. directors, The board has approved terms of reference which Section A of the Code: contain a schedule of matters specifically reserved normally meets to it for decision, including corporate strategy, Leadership at least once a approval of budgets and financial results, new board appointments, proposals for dividend payments, the week, and more How do we ensure effective leadership approval of all major transactions and authorisation frequently as of the company?
of directors interests that conflict, or may conflict, The board required.
with the interests of the company.
The boards The board of directors is responsible to shareholders five committees also have written terms of reference for the long-term success of the company and which can be found on the companys website.
In ensuring that the company is appropriately addition, the group has detailed corporate policies managed.
The board meets regularly to discuss the which set out authority levels within the group companys strategic direction, to review its financial and which were last reviewed and updated in performance, and to ensure that risk management June 2010.
Divisional boards are required to report and internal control systems are appropriately on compliance with the corporate policies on a aligned with its strategic objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for: i chairing the The executive committee, comprising the three board meetings and monitoring their effectiveness: executive directors, normally meets at least once ii chairing the AGM: and iii chairing the a week, and more frequently as required.
He is also responsible for executive committee deals with matters relating ensuring that an effective strategy is approved by to the running of the group, other than those the board and that an annual evaluation of the reserved to the board and those specifically board is carried out.
The Chairman is also Chairman assigned to the other committees.
There is a formal of Hyperion Insurance Group Limited.
In 2010, schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
the board considered and approved the Chairmans proposed appointment as Chairman of Marlin Meetings Financial Group Limited, having concluded that the During 2010, the board had 11 meetings and an proposed appointment neither presented a conflict annual strategy and planning conference.
Additional of interest, nor prevented the Chairman from meetings are called when required and there is discharging his duties and responsibilities to the frequent contact between meetings, where necessary, company.
These appointments involve no more to progress the companys business.
Each director than two and a half days work per week.
There receives all relevant reports and papers so that have been no material changes in his other he she has sufficient time to review them.
commitments since the year end.
Attendance at board and committee meetings during 2010 is set out in the table below.
Attendance at board and committee meetings Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Risk Advisory meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in 2010 11 4 3 7 3 John van Kuffeler Chairman 11 3 Peter Crook 11 3 Andrew Fisher 11 3 Chris Gillespie 10 Rob Anderson 10 4 3 7 3 Robert Hough 11 4 3 7 3 Manjit Wolstenholme 11 4 3 7 3 Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 56 Governance: Key governance principles continued Company Secretary met without the Chairman present to discuss the In accordance All directors are able to consult with the Company Chairmans performance.
The senior independent with the Secretary, who is secretary to all of the board director discussed comments arising with the Chairman.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the board.
Reappointment of directors of the Code, Under the companys articles, each director should all directors Independent advice retire, but may be reappointed, at least at every There is a formal procedure by which any director third AGM, as well as at the first AGM following will be offering may take independent professional advice relating appointment.
Also, after nine years, a director must themselves for to the performance of his her duties at the offer himself herself for reappointment annually.
In 2010, biographical details of the directors submitted for reappointment at the AGM were annually with Insurance supplied in the shareholders circular and notice effect from the The company has arranged appropriate Directors of the 2010 AGM.
and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal 2011 AGM.
However, in accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all directors will be offering themselves Section B of the Code: for reappointment annually with effect from the 2011 AGM.
Effectiveness Policy on other board appointments How do we ensure there is an appropriate The boards policy on other directorships is designed balance and refresh of skills on the board to ensure that all directors remain able to discharge to ensure effective delivery of the their responsibilities to the company.
The board currently comprises three executive The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, three non-executive directors and a directors state that any proposed appointment to non-executive Chairman and has a clearly defined the board of another company will require the prior division of responsibilities between the Chairman approval of the board.
The companys policy is that and the Chief Executive.
a non-executive director should have sufficient time to fulfil his her duties to the company, including Non-executive directors chairing a committee.
The board will consider all Each of the three non-executive directors has been requests for permission for other directorships formally determined by the board to be independent carefully, subject to the following principles: for the purposes of the effective governance of the group, in line with the independence expectations a non-executive director would not be of the Code.
The board believes that there are no expected to hold more than four other current or past matters which could materially material non-executive directorships: and interfere with their independent judgment.
if he she holds an executive role in a FTSE 350 Non-executive directors are currently appointed for company, he she would not be expected fixed periods of three years, subject to appointment to hold more than two other material by shareholders.
The initial three-year period may be non-executive directorships.
extended for one further three-year period and, in exceptional cases, further extended, subject always In line with the Code, an executive director will to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Their be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship letters of appointment may be inspected at the and to retain the fees from that appointment companys registered office or can be obtained on provided that the board considers that this will request from the Company Secretary.
not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
The board would not permit an executive director Robert Hough is the senior independent director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
and is available to consult with shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal Any request for an exception to this policy is channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance considered on its merits.
Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Performance evaluation In November 2010, the board completed the In December 2010, the Chairman met with the eighth evaluation of its performance and that non-executive directors without any executive of its committees and individual directors.
On this director present and the non-executive directors occasion the entire process was externally facilitated Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 57 and delivered through the governance services of At its meeting in February 2010, the committee The results of Capita Registrars Limited.
The process included carried out a review of the performance of Robert the evaluation confidential, unattributable, one-to-one interviews Hough and recommended to the board an extension with every board member, the Company Secretary, to his term of office.
At the board meeting in February confirmed that and the Head of Audit & Risk.
The review covered 2010 his term of office was extended to 31 January the board of corporate governance: development of strategy 2013, and his reappointment was approved by directors was and alignment with risk: board and committee shareholders at the AGM on 5 May 2010. effectiveness, composition, development and balanced and no succession planning: board operation and dynamics: At its meeting in June 2010, the committee significant issues collective and individual capabilities and carried out a review of the performance of Manjit contribution: management information and Wolstenholme and recommended to the board were identified.
an extension to her term of office.
At the board meeting in June 2010, her term of office was The results of the evaluation, which were discussed extended to 31 July 2013. by the board as a whole at its meeting in December 2010, confirmed that the board of directors was At its meeting in December 2010, the committee balanced and no significant issues were identified.
reviewed and approved a detailed succession plan A number of minor logistical, communication for the executive directors, the Chairman and the and operational improvements were, however, persons discharging managerial responsibility.
The recommended to strengthen the overall smooth plan specifically identified those candidates who are, running of board meetings, all of which the board or would be, capable with training and development, agreed to implement during the 2011 financial year.
of filling the roles identified.
Bespoke training and development plans are being prepared and will be A performance evaluation of the board, the board implemented as appropriate.
committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually although the process for The committee formally considered its effectiveness such evaluations will continue to be reviewed by in 2010.
On the basis of the board and committee the board in order to optimise the process.
evaluation undertaken by Capita Registrars Limited, which did not identify any issues for consideration Conflicts of interest by the committee, the overall view was that it was There is a procedure in place to enable the board to working effectively.
review and authorise conflict situations as appropriate.
This procedure, which is in accordance with the Section C of the Code: companys articles, has been fully and properly Accountability complied with throughout the year.
In addition, the board reviews the register of conflicts annually.
How do we ensure that the board presents a balanced view of the Training companys position and prospects?
Appropriate training and briefing is provided to The board presents the companys position all directors on appointment to the board, taking and prospects by means of an annual report, into account their individual qualifications and interim reports, interim management statements experience.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit and in circulars and reports to shareholders.
their individual needs including environmental, These documents are posted on the companys social and governance training as appropriate and website.
Announcements made by the company the Chairman regularly reviews and agrees with to the London Stock Exchange are also posted each director their training and development needs.
The Chairman has arranged one-to-one meetings with all directors in 2011 to discuss their respective Risk management and internal control training and development plans for the year.
The board is responsible for the alignment of strategy and risk, and for maintaining a sound Nomination Committee system of risk management and internal controls.
The Nomination Committee ensures that the The system is designed to manage, rather than balance of directors remains appropriate as the eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business group develops and that there is effective objectives and any system can provide only succession planning for senior positions within reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the group.
It has a formal schedule of matters material misstatement or loss.
Details of the groups reserved to it for decision.
risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, can be found on pages 39 to 41 of the Directors report.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 58 Governance: Key governance principles continued The key elements of the internal control system, for identifying, evaluating and managing the The audit including the financial reporting processes, have significant risks faced by the group was in place committee been established in accordance with the revised throughout 2010 and up to 1 March 2011 and regularly reviews Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code no significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure during this period.
the adequacy of and Transparency Rules.
The company reports to internal controls.
Audit committee and auditors The audit committee has a formal schedule In December each year, the board approves detailed of matters reserved to it for decision, including budgets and cashflow forecasts for the year ahead.
all matters relating to the appointment and It also approves outline projections for the subsequent reappointment of auditors, auditors remuneration and the policy on the supply of non-audit services to four years.
An update to the budget is performed the company by the auditors.
In addition, it monitors in June each year.
Actual performance against the integrity of the financial statements of the group budget is monitored in detail within the groups and the formal announcements relating to the management accounts and this is supplemented groups financial performance and reviews significant with a rolling forecast of the full-year outturn.
financial reporting judgments contained in them.
The groups management accounts form part of It also approves the internal audit plan annually the board papers for each meeting.
and reviews the groups internal and external whistleblowing policies and the register of benefits The audit committee, details of which can be found offered to directors in accordance with the on this page, regularly reviews the adequacy of companys code of practice on benefits.
internal controls including financial, operational and compliance controls in conjunction with the Manjit Wolstenholme has chaired the committee internal audit function and reports back to the since joining the board in 2007.
An annual programme of work which targets accountant and is considered to have the recent and reports on higher risk areas is carried out by and relevant financial experience required by the the internal audit function.
The operation of internal provisions of the Code.
The other members of the controls is monitored by regular management committee have a wide range of business and reviews, including a procedure by which each financial experience which is evidenced by their division certifies compliance quarterly.
biographical summaries on pages 46 to 47.
The risk advisory committee, details of which can be There is an in-house internal audit function managed found on page 59, considers the nature and extent by the Head of Audit & Risk.
The internal audit of the risks facing the group, keeps them under function reports to the audit committee which helps review, reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, to ensure the functions independence from group and notifies the board of changes in the status and management, and the audit committee reviews control of risks.
It reports to the board on a regular regular reports on the activity of this function.
In addition, the risk advisory group, details of which can be found on page 59, formally reviews At the invitation of the committee, meetings are the divisional risk registers four times a year and it attended by the Head of Audit & Risk, the external reports to the risk advisory committee.
auditors, the Finance Director and the group Financial Controller, as required.
The board requires the divisions to operate in accordance with the group corporate policies At its February and July meetings, the committee and divisions are obliged to certify compliance had a separate session with the groups auditors on a biannual basis.
PwC, without any executive director or employee of the company or group being present.
This gives A six-weekly finance forum, chaired by the Finance members of the committee the opportunity to Director and attended by divisional finance directors raise any issues, including any issues on the final and senior finance management including the or interim results of the group, directly with PwC.
heads of tax, treasury and risk, reviews and provides Manjit Wolstenholme, as Chair of the committee, oversight of the key financial matters of the group.
also meets separately with the Head of Audit & Risk The group finance function establishes the process on a quarterly basis.
and timetable for financial reporting and consolidation activities and identifies changes to PwC have been the companys auditors for many accounting and financial reporting standards.
The audit committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and In accordance with the revised Guidance for remains satisfied with their effectiveness, which is Directors on the Combined Code, the board has reviewed annually.
Accordingly, it has not considered reviewed the effectiveness of the groups framework it necessary, to date, to require the firm to tender for of internal controls during 2010.
The above process Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 59 The risk advisory committee Biannual Corporate Board of has overseen budget policy directors process manual the continuing enhancement of the risk Monthly Risk Audit Executive Treasury management management advisory committee committee committee accounts committee framework across the group.
Risk Internal Divisional advisory Board audit boards group Committee Process the audit work.
The external auditors are required The committee formally considered its effectiveness to rotate the audit partners responsible for the group in 2010.
On the basis of the board and committee and subsidiary audits every five years and a new lead evaluation undertaken by Capita Registrars Limited, audit partner was identified and agreed for the which did not identify any issues for consideration 2010 audit.
There are no contractual obligations by the committee, the overall view was that it was restricting the companys choice of external auditor.
PwC provide the committee with a letter of independence, which is regularly updated and Risk Advisory Committee considered by the committee.
The groups risk management framework is overseen by the risk advisory committee on behalf of the The committee has adopted a policy on the board.
The risk advisory committee is chaired by appointment of staff from the auditors to positions Rob Anderson and comprises the Finance Director within the various group finance departments.
and the two other independent non-executive It grades appointments into four categories and directors.
The Chief Executive, Managing Director sets out the approvals required.
Neither a partner of the Consumer Credit Division, the Head of Audit of the audit firm who has acted as engagement & Risk, and the group Financial Controller, attend the partner, the quality review partner, other key audit meetings by invitation.
Its function is to keep under partners or partners in the chain of command, nor review the groups risk management framework, and a senior member of the audit engagement team, to report to the board on its work.
It reviews the may be employed as group Finance Director, group group and divisional key risk registers, considers the most important risks facing the group and is Financial Controller or a divisional finance director.
responsible for reviewing the groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The company has a formal policy on the use prior to submission to the board.
of auditors for non-audit work.
This policy is reviewed once a year.
The risk advisory committee delegates a number of responsibilities to the risk advisory group which In 2010, the committee regularly considered a comprises the executive directors, the Company schedule of non-audit work carried out by PwC for Secretary, the group Financial Controller and the the group.
This fell broadly into four categories: Head of Audit & Risk.
The deputy Company Secretary fees payable for the audit of the parent company and divisional risk managers also attend the and consolidated financial statements: audit of the meetings by invitation.
The risk advisory group companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation: other considers the extent and nature of the risks facing services pursuant to legislation and tax services: and the group, the extent and categories of risk which advice on the establishment of an Employer Funded are acceptable to bear, the likelihood of any risk Retirement Benefit Scheme.
Details of work carried materialising, the groups ability to mitigate any risk, out by PwC on behalf of the remuneration committee and the costs of operating particular controls relative is summarised on page 63.
Fees paid to PwC in 2010 to the benefits obtained.
It also reviews the key risk are set out on page 96 in note 4 of the notes to the registers prepared by the group and the divisional financial statements.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 60 Governance: Key governance principles continued risk committees four times a year, challenging and Section E of the Code: The company making changes where appropriate.
It submits a encourages Relations with shareholders schedule of key risks, the group and divisional key private investors risk registers and the ICAAP to the risk advisory Members of the board meet with institutional committee for review and approval.
to attend shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels the AGM.
Throughout 2010, the risk advisory committee of communication are established between directors has overseen the continuing enhancement and and shareholders and ensuring that the views of embedding of the risk management framework shareholders are made known to the board.
Improved reporting to an agreed An investor relations report is considered by the risk appetite framework, complemented by focus board at each meeting and independent reviews on the key risks facing the group and, as required, of shareholder views are commissioned annually detailed reporting on specific risks allows effective and reviewed by the board.
risk monitoring and oversight by the committee and board.
The company encourages private investors to attend the AGM.
The chair of each of the board committees The committee formally considered its effectiveness is available to answer questions from shareholders at in 2010.
On the basis of the board and committee the AGM and there is an opportunity for shareholders evaluation undertaken by Capita Registrars Limited, to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
which did not identify any issues for consideration by the committee, the overall view was that it was At the 2010 AGM, details of proxy votes cast on each working effectively.
resolution were made available to shareholders and other interested parties at the AGM and by means Section D of the Code: of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange Remuneration and on the companys website.
Remuneration Committee At the 2010 AGM, the company proposed separate Full details of the composition and work of the resolutions on substantially separate issues and will remuneration committee are set out on pages continue to do so.
It is the companys policy to give 63 to 64 of the directors remuneration report.
shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM.
The committee has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
It determines, within The company operates a dividend reinvestment plan the framework agreed with the board, the specific which enables shareholders to elect to receive their remuneration packages and conditions of service dividends in shares should they wish to do so.
of the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company Secretary, including their service Approved by the board on 1 March 2011 and signed agreements.
It also monitors the level and structure by order of the board.
of the remuneration of the most senior management below board level within the company.
No director is involved in determining his her own remuneration.
Kenneth J Mullen General Counsel and Company Secretary 1 March 2011 Provident Financial plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Company number 668987
