104 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance with Corporate Governance Codes In performing its duties, the Board has direct access to the As a UK company with primary listings on the London Stock services of the Company Secretary who advises on corporate Exchange and on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, Prudential governance matters, Board procedures and compliance with is subject to the governance rules set out in the Combined Code applicable rules and regulations.
2008 for reporting periods commencing prior to 29 June 2010 Directors have the right to seek independent professional and the Code on Corporate Governance Practices in Appendix advice at the Companys expense and copies of such advice are 14 to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock circulated to other directors where applicable and appropriate.
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited together the Corporate Governance Codes.
In the ordinary course of business, Board and Committee papers are provided to the directors approximately one week in The Combined Code is issued by the Financial advance of each meeting.
Reporting Council and can be viewed on their website: The Board has approved a governance framework which maps www.
uk corporate out the internal approvals processes and those matters which The Code on Corporate Governance Practices is issued by the may be delegated.
These principally relate to the operational Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and can be viewed on their management of the Groups businesses and include prewebsite: www.
hk eng rulesreg listrules determined authority limits delegated by the Board to the The directors believe that good corporate governance is central Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day to achieving the Groups objectives and maximising shareholder value, and are committed to high standards of governance.
running and management of the businesses.
The chief executive of each business unit has authority for the management of that The Board supports the Corporate Governance Codes and business unit and has established a management board confirms that it has complied with the provisions set out in the comprising its most senior executives.
Combined Code 2008 throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2010.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
This The Board further confirms that it has complied with the Code includes the powers of the Company to borrow money and to on Corporate Governance Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules mortgage or charge any of its assets subject to the limitations set Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Hong Kong Limited from the date of listing on the exchange, Association and to give a guarantee, security or indemnity in except that it has deviated in respect of the Terms of Reference respect of a debt or other obligation of the Company.
The remit of the Remuneration Committee is limited to considering the remuneration of the In order to ensure that it exercises control over the Groups affairs, the Boards terms of reference are regularly reviewed Chairman and executive directors and does not extend to making recommendations to the Board in respect of the and set out those matters specically reserved to it for decision.
These include approval of the annual and interim results, remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The reason for the deviation is that it would be inconsistent with the principles of strategy and corporate objectives, operating plans, significant transactions and matters affecting the Company's share capital.
the Combined Code 2008 and the provisions of the new UK Corporate Governance Code for the Remuneration Committee Under its internal governance framework all business units are required to seek approval from the Board for matters above to be involved in setting the fees of non-executive directors.
The principles of the Corporate Governance Codes have been applied as set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Composition Report.
At 31 December 2010 the Board comprised the Chairman, six executive directors and nine independent non-executive Board of directors directors.
From 1 January 2011 the number of executive Role of the Board directors increased to seven with the appointment of John Foley, The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group Chief Risk officer, becoming effective.
The biographies Group and provides leadership within a framework of effective of all current directors are set out on pages 100 to 103. controls which enables suitable risk management.
The executive directors are responsible for running the business operations On 15 October 2010, Howard Davies and Paul Manduca were appointed as independent non-executive directors.
and the non-executive directors for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
From 1 January 2011, Paul Manduca succeeded James Ross as the Boards Senior Independent Director.
James will retire The directors are responsible for setting strategic objectives from the Board at the conclusion of Prudentials Annual and for ensuring the Group is adequately placed and resourced General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2011.
On 1 January 2011, to achieve those objectives and for ensuring obligations to its Mike Wells replaced Clark Manning as an executive director shareholders, and wider stakeholders, are met in a manner and as President and Chief Executive officer of Jackson National consistent with their statutory duties.
In addition, John Foley was appointed an executive director and Group Chief Risk officer with effect from 1 January 2011.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 105 The Board, or the members in a general meeting, may Chairman and Chief Executive appoint directors up to a maximum total number of 20 as set The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The removal and clearly dened.
The scope of these roles is approved and and resignation of the Companys directors is governed by the kept under regular review by the Board so that no individual has relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Corporate unfettered decision-making powers.
Governance Codes and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an initial of the Board and the Group Chief Executive for the management three-year term commencing with their election by shareholders of the Group and the implementation of Board strategy and at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment policy on the Boards behalf.
In discharging his responsibilities, by the Board.
Each appointment is reviewed towards the end of the Group Chief Executive is advised and assisted by the Group the three-year term against performance and the requirements Executive Committee which comprises all the business unit of the Group's businesses.
The terms and conditions of all heads and a Group Head Ofce team of functional specialists.
directors appointments are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce during normal business hours Independence and at the Annual General Meeting.
The independence of the non-executive directors is determined with reference to the Corporate Governance Codes.
Prudential Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve for two is required to afrm annually the independence of the nonterms of three years from their initial election by shareholders, executive directors under the rules of the Hong Kong Stock although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional Exchange and also the independence of its Audit Committee period.
Directors serving a third term are subject to rigorous members under the Sarbanes-Oxley legislation.
The Board has annual review.
appropriate processes in place to manage any potential conicts Directors appointed to the Board since the 2010 Annual of interest.
General Meeting will stand for election for the first time Throughout the year the non-executive directors were and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate considered by the Board to be independent in character and Governance Code all other directors, with the exception of judgement and met the provisions for independence as set James Ross who has announced his intention to retire, will offer out in the Corporate Governance Codes.
The Company has themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be received conrmation of independence from each of the held on 19 May 2011. non-executive directors as required by the Hong Kong Listing The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for Rules.
As the test of independence is not appropriate in relation both executive and non-executive roles to ensure that Board to the Chairman under the Combined Code 2008, and to ensure composition is periodically renewed and that the Board retains a consistent approach in how the Chairman is described in all its effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an corporate communications, the Chairman has not been asked to established review process that is applied across all businesses provide conrmation of his independence for the purposes of and covers both director and senior management succession the Hong Kong Listing Rules and will not be asked to do so in and development and also through the work of the Nomination future.
Accordingly, the Chairman will no longer be listed as an Committee as described more fully on page 112.
The Board independent non-executive director in Hong Kong corporate considers annually the outcome of the review and actions arising communications.
from the review are implemented as part of the management Paul Manduca is the Senior Independent Director and concerns development agenda.
We believe that our non-executive may be conveyed to him by shareholders if they are unable to directors bring a wide range of business, financial and resolve them through the existing mechanisms for investor international experience to the Board and its committees.
Our communications or where such channels are inappropriate.
executive directors, who head up the main businesses of the Group, each bring an in-depth understanding to the Board of Keki Dadiseth and Barry Stowe serve as non-executive directors their particular business, its markets and its challenges, ensuring of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an Indian coverage of the breadth and depth of the Groups principal company which is owned 26% by Prudential.
serves at Prudentials request as a non-executive director of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian company which is owned 49% by Prudential.
The Board does not consider that these appointments in any way affect Kekis status as an independent director of Prudential.
106 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and Performance evaluation the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the Prudential continued its programme of annual evaluation of the independence of those non-executive directors who are on the performance of the Board and its Committees in respect of 2010, boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The in line with the requirements of the Combined Code 2008.
The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude aim is to continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board and the Company from having the most appropriate and highest its Committees and enhance the Groups performance.
Following an internal performance review for 2009, Prudential once again made the decision to use an external adviser to Induction and Development facilitate the evaluation for 2010.
The review was carried out by The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing Egon Zehnder International in consultation with the Chairman, tailored induction programmes for new directors and on-going the Senior Independent Director and the Group Chief Executive.
On appointment all directors A key element of the evaluation process was the use of individual embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, meetings with each of the directors.
This proved an effective and amongst other things, the principal bases of accounting for the informative mechanism for capturing feedback.
Groups results, the role of the Board and its key committees and the ambit of the internal audit and risk management functions.
In The report on the findings of the review was discussed by the addition, they receive detailed briengs on the Groups principal Board at its meeting in February 2011 and an action plan will be businesses, its product range, the markets in which it operates implemented during the year.
and the overall competitive environment.
Other areas addressed In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors include the directors obligations under the different listing and the Group Chief Executive is evaluated by the Chairman in regimes, legal issues affecting directors of financial services individual meetings.
The Chairman also leads the non-executive companies, the Groups governance arrangements, its investor directors in a performance assessment of the executive directors relations programme as well as its remuneration policies.
and the Senior Independent Director leads the non-executive Throughout their period in ofce directors are regularly updated directors in a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and industryExecutive directors are subject to regular review and the Group specic environments in which it operates as well as on their legal Chief Executive individually appraises the performance of each and other duties and obligations as directors where appropriate.
of the executive directors as part of the annual Group-wide These updates can be in the form of written reports to the Board performance evaluation of all staff.
or presentations by senior executives or external sources where appropriate.
In order to enhance their knowledge and The Group also uses Egon Zehnder International as executive effectiveness throughout their term in ofce, non-executive search consultants, but does not believe there is a conict of directors serving on key committees are updated regularly interest, particularly as the Group has relationships with other on matters specic to the relevant committee and receive search rms.
presentations from senior executives on topics of interest to them.
Meetings A programme of on-going professional development was During 2010 the Board held ten scheduled meetings and met undertaken by all directors during 2010 which included a on a further fifteen occasions to discuss extraordinary business.
number of sector-specic and business issues as well as legal, One separate strategy event was held during the year.
A detailed accounting and regulatory changes and developments.
forward agenda has been in operation for a number of years.
A number of business unit chief executive ofcers, together This is kept updated to reect not only scheduled regular items with relevant senior executives, gave presentations to the Board of business but also any topical matters arising during the year.
during the course of the year on the challenges and opportunities currently faced by their business unit.
In addition, senior Each year at least one Board meeting is held at a Group managers within certain head ofce functions presented to the business operation in order to facilitate a fuller understanding of Board on the key issues currently facing their function and that business.
In November 2010 a Board meeting was held in directors received regular briengs on Solvency II.
In addition, Jakarta, Indonesia where the directors met with senior members members of the Audit Committee have the option to attend of the Asia management team and attended a series of meetings of the business unit audit committees to aid their presentations on the business.
understanding of topical matters of interest to them and how they are handled by the Group.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 107 Meeting attendance for 2010 Scheduled Unscheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings 1 Number of meetings in year 10 15 17 7 6 CHAIRMAN Harvey McGrath 10 10 15 15 6 6 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Tidjane Thiam 10 10 15 15 Nic Nicandrou 10 10 15 15 Rob Devey 10 10 14 15 2 Clark Manning 10 10 14 15 Michael McLintock 10 10 15 15 Barry Stowe 9 10 13 15 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Keki Dadiseth 7 10 13 15 6 7 3, 8 Howard Davies 1 2 1 1 Michael Garrett 10 10 12 15 6 7 Ann Godbehere 10 10 13 15 17 17 Bridget Macaskill 10 10 14 15 7 7 6 6 4, 8 Paul Manduca 2 2 0 1 0 1 5 Kathleen ODonovan 10 10 15 15 16 17 1 1 6 James Ross 10 10 14 15 6 6 6 6 7 Lord Turnbull 10 10 14 15 13 16 1 1 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the individual could have attended in the period in which they were a Board or Committee member.
Notes 1 The Audit Committee held eight scheduled meetings during the year and nine unscheduled meetings to discuss extraordinary business.
2 Ceased to be a director with effect from 1 January 2011.
3 Appointed as a director and Chairman of Risk Committee on 15 October 2010 and member of the Audit Committee on 9 November 2010.
4 Appointed as a director on 15 October 2010, as a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committee on 9 November 2010 and as a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 January 2011.
5 Appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee on 9 November 2010.
6 Ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 9 November 2010.
7 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee and joined the Remuneration Committee on 9 November 2010.
8 Were unable to attend certain of the scheduled meetings due to pre-existing commitments at the time of appointment to the Board.
The table above details the number of Board and Committee Conflicts of interest meetings attended by each director throughout the year.
Where Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts of interest with directors were not able to attend a meeting, their views were the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
A further ten directors to authorise conicts of interest and the Board has ad hoc Board Committee meetings took place during the year adopted a policy and effective procedures on managing which had been convened to nalise arrangements for matters and, where appropriate, approving conicts or potential conicts of discussed by the Board, such as approvals of periodic financial interest.
Under these procedures directors are required to declare reports and corporate transactions.
all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group as well as other situations which could result in The Chairman met with the non-executive directors without the conicts or could give rise to a potential conict.
The Nomination executive directors being present seven times during the year.
Committee, or the Board where appropriate, evaluates and approves each such situation individually where applicable.
108 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRUDENTIAL PLC Chairman Nine non-executive directors Six executive directors at 31 December 2010 seven from 1 January 2011 AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION RISK COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Four non-executive Five non-executive Four non-executive Four non-executive directors directors directors and the directors Chairman Directors interests that any potential conicts of interest and any possible issues arising out of the time commitments required by the new role Individual directors interests are set out on page 135 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
can be identied and addressed appropriately.
The major commitments of our non-executive directors are detailed External appointments in their biographies set out on pages 100 to 103.
The Board was satisfied that during 2010 the Chairmans other commitments did not hinder the day-to-day performance of Directors indemnities and protections The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in his duties for the Group and that he had the commitment and capability to make himself available under unforeseen respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of circumstances.
The major commitments of the Chairman, companies within the Prudential Group.
In addition, the Articles including changes during the year where applicable, are of Association of the Company permit the directors and ofcers detailed in his biography on page 101. of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their ofce.
Prudential also provides protections for Directors may hold directorships or other significant interests directors and senior managers of companies within the Group with companies outside of the Group which may have business against personal financial exposure they may incur in their capacity relationships with the Group.
These include qualifying third-party indemnity provisions Executive directors may accept external directorships and as dened where relevant by the Companies Act 2006 for the retain any fees earned from those directorships subject to prior benefit of directors of Prudential plc and other such persons discussion with the Group Chief Executive and always provided including, where applicable, in their capacity as directors of other this does not lead to any conicts of interest.
In line with the companies within the Group.
These indemnities were in force Combined Code 2008, executive directors would be expected to during 2010 and remain in force.
hold no more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Some of our executive directors hold directorships or Committees trustee positions of unquoted companies or institutions.
Details The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of any fees retained are included in the Directors Remuneration Committees as principal standing committees of the Board with Report on page 135 and major commitments of our executive written terms of reference which are kept under regular review.
directors are detailed in their biographies on pages 100 to 103.
In November 2010 the Board established a further committee, the Risk Committee, to assist the Board in carrying out its duties Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards in respect of monitoring and overseeing Group-wide risk.
These provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time committees are key elements of the Groups corporate governance commitment to their role at Prudential and that they discuss any framework and reports on each committee are included below.
new appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting.
This ensures that they do not compromise their independence and Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 109 Audit Committee Report Meetings This report sets out the responsibilities of the Group Audit The Committee held eight scheduled meetings during the year Committee the Committee and the activities carried out by and met on a further nine occasions to discuss extraordinary the Committee during the year.
Individual attendance for the meetings is given in the table on page 107.
By invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Role of the Committee Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial officer, the Group The Committees principal responsibilities for 2010 consisted General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group-wide of oversight over financial reporting, internal controls and risk Internal Audit Director, the Group Chief Risk officer and other management, and monitoring auditor independence.
Its duties senior staff from the Group finance, internal audit, risk, compliance include gaining assurance on the control over financial processes and security functions as well as the lead partner of the external and the integrity of the Groups financial reports, monitoring the auditor, attended meetings.
Other partners and staff of the performance, objectivity and independence of the external external auditor also attended some of the meetings to contribute auditor, and reviewing the work of the internal auditor.
to the discussions relating to their area of expertise.
With the establishment of the Risk Committee, the oversight A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of risk management has transferred to that Committee with of years and is reviewed and updated continually to ensure that all effect from 2011. matters for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at In performing its duties, the Audit Committee has access to the appropriate time of year.
The Committees principal business employees and their financial or other relevant expertise across during the year consisted of the following: the Group and to the services of the Group-wide Internal Audit review of half-year and full-year results, the annual report Director and the Company Secretary.
The Committee may also and accounts and other significant announcements, where seek external professional advice at the Groups expense.
appropriate: The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the examination of critical accounting policies and key judgmental Board and kept under regular review, are available on our areas: website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru review of changes in and implementation of Group Accounting corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may be obtained Policies in compliance with International Financial Reporting upon request from the Company Secretary at the Companys Standards and practices: registered ofce.
review of the Groups tax matters: approval of the external auditors management representation Membership letter, review of the external auditors full-year memorandum The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent and external audit opinion: non-executive directors of the Company as set out below: review of US lings and related external audit opinions: monitoring of auditor independence and the external auditors Ann Godbehere Chairman plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness of the external Kathleen ODonovan audit process, the external auditors qualications, expertise Lord Turnbull to 9 November 2010 and resources, and making recommendations for the Paul Manduca from 9 November 2010 re-appointment of the external auditor: Howard Davies from 9 November 2010 monitoring of the framework and effectiveness of the Groups Membership is selected to provide a broad set of financial, systems of internal control, including the Turnbull compliance commercial and other relevant experience to meet the statement and Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: Committees objectives.
monitoring the effectiveness of both the Groups risk framework and the management of key financial and operational risks: The Board has determined that both Ann Godbehere and review of the internal audit plan and resources, and monitoring Kathleen ODonovan have recent and relevant financial of the audit framework and internal audit effectiveness: experience for the purposes of the Combined Code 2008 and monitoring the effectiveness of compliance processes and the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
In June 2010 the Board designated controls, and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: Ann Godbehere as its Audit Committee financial expert for review of anti-money laundering procedures and allegations Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes.
This will be reviewed during received via the employee condential reporting lines: and 2011 in conjunction with the publication of Form 20-F. review of its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out on pages 100 to 103.
110 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition, the Committee received in-depth presentations on the external auditor.
During the year the business unit audit a range of topics.
Throughout the year, the Committee received committees reviewed their respective internal audit plans, the minutes of the Disclosure Committee and the Group resources and the results of internal audit work, and both Operational Risk Committee and noted their activities.
From external and internal auditors were able to discuss any relevant November, the Committee further noted the minutes and matters with the Chairman and members of the Committee activities of the Assumptions Approvals Committee.
information on the Disclosure Committee and on risk governance appears on pages 119 and 115 to 116 respectively.
Internal control and risk management The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal The Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also signicance after each Committee meeting and the minutes reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing of Committee meetings were circulated to all Board members.
The Committee recognises the need to meet without the Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanespresence of executive management.
Such sessions were held Oxley Act, the Group undertakes an annual assessment of the with the external and internal auditors in February and October effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
At all other times management and auditors have open Further details are provided below.
Internal audit Financial reporting The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit As part of its review of financial statements prior to function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
recommending their publication to the Board, the Committee Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting focused on: critical accounting policies and practices and any the Committee to full its responsibilities under the Corporate changes, decisions requiring a major element of judgement, Governance Codes and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and provides unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures, significant audit independent assurance on the Companys processes of adjustments, the going concern assumption, compliance with identication and control of risk.
The Committee agreed the accounting standards, and compliance with obligations under work programme of the internal audit function to be undertaken applicable laws, regulations and governance codes.
Each of the Groups business units has an internal In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by management audit team, the heads of which report to the Group-wide Internal on developments in International Financial Reporting Standards.
Internal audit resources, plans and work are overseen by the Committee and by the business unit audit Confidential reporting committees.
Total internal audit headcount across the Group One of the standing agenda items of the Committee is to review stands at 108.
The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports a report on the use of the condential reporting procedures, functionally to the Committee and for management purposes to which are available to employees to enable them to communicate the Chief Financial officer.
condentially, and anonymously if they so wish, on matters of Formal reports are submitted to Committee meetings, with concern and actions taken in response to these communications.
interim updates where appropriate, and views are also sought No material control implications were raised through these at the private meetings between the Committee and the internal procedures during the year.
auditors as well as during regular private meetings between the Chairman of the Committee and the Group-wide Internal Business unit audit committees Audit Director.
Each business unit has its own audit committee whose members and chairmen comprise primarily senior management and are The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit independent of the respective business unit.
The minutes of function by means of regular reviews, some of which are carried these committees are reported regularly to the Committee out by external advisers, and through ongoing dialogue with and their meetings are attended by senior management of the the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
External reviews of respective business unit, including the business units' heads Group-wide internal audit arrangements and standards were of finance, risk, compliance and Group-wide internal audit.
last conducted in 2006 and 2007 to ensure that the activities Business unit audit committees have adopted standard terms and resources of internal audit are most effectively organised of reference across the Group with minor variations to address to support the oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
overseas requirements or particular requirements of the These reviews, performed by Deloitte, confirmed that the business.
The terms of reference of those committees were internal audit function complies with the Institute of Internal reviewed during the year and all include escalation of significant Auditors' international standards for the professional practice of matters to the Committee, recommendations for approval of the internal auditing and concluded that the function was operating business unit internal audit plans and overseeing the adequacy effectively.
An internal assessment of the internal audit function of internal audit resources.
Also included are presentations from was performed by the Group-wide Internal Audit Director in Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 111 subsequent years based on internal audits ongoing selfas dened by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee reviewed assessment processes and using a maturity model derived from the non-audit services being provided to the Group by KPMG the review criteria used by Deloitte.
The assessment confirmed at regular intervals during 2010.
A summary of audit fees is that the internal audit function conforms to the Institute of provided in Note I6 of the Group Financial Statements.
Internal Auditors' international standards and continues to operate effectively in all areas of professional practice.
The results Auditor performance and independence of the last assessment were reported in detail to the Committee As part of its work during 2010, the Committee assessed the in February 2011.
An external review of internal audit performance of the external auditor, its independence and arrangements and standards in UKIO was conducted in 2010 objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In to ensure that the activities and resources of internal audit were addition to questioning the external auditor, which is a regular effectively organised to support the oversight responsibilities feature of meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the of the Business Unit Audit Committee in the UK.
This review, external audit process was conducted through a  by PwC, confirmed that the internal audit function based exercise administered by Group-wide Internal Audit.
The for UKIO complies with the Institute of Internal Auditors' Committee reviewed the external audit strategy and received international standards for the professional practice of internal reports from the auditor on its own policies and procedures auditing and was operating effectively.
The next external review regarding independence and quality control, including an annual of Group-wide internal audit arrangements and standards is conrmation of its independence in line with industry standards.
Re-appointment of auditor External audit The Group operates a policy under which at least once every five The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the external years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to assess auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship is with the whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The Groups Auditor Independence Policy ensures audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 when that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is not the present auditor was appointed.
The policy sets out four key principles which underpin has annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor, namely service.
It again considered this in February 2011 and concluded that the auditor should not: that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring a change.
In 2007 a new lead audit partner was audit its own rms work: appointed by KPMG Audit Plc, in line with the Auditing Practices make management decisions for the Group: Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness and independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board All services provided by the auditor under this policy are that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the Company provided in accordance with a pre-approved budget and are and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as reviewed by the Committee and approved where necessary.
auditor of the Company will be put to a shareholder vote at the The Committee regularly reviews and updates the policy to Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2011. ensure alignment with the latest standards and best practice in establishing, maintaining and monitoring auditor independence Review of Committee effectiveness and objectivity.
As part of the performance evaluation of the Board, the Committee undertook an externally facilitated performance Fees payable to the auditor assessment of the qualitative aspects of its performance during For the year ended 31 December 2010 the Committee approved the year.
The results of this assessment were reported to the fees of 10.4 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, for audit Board in February 2011.
In addition, an internal evaluation was services and other services supplied pursuant to relevant carried out addressing compliance with various regulations and legislation.
In addition, the Committee approved fees of codes of conduct applicable to the Committee, and the results 7.3 million to KPMG for services not related to audit work of that assessment were reported to the Committee in February which accounted for 42 per cent of total fees paid to the external 2011.
The Committee is satisfied, based on the findings of both auditor in the year.
Excluding services relating to the AIA the internal and external review, that it had been operating as an transaction, this amounted to 1.8 million for services not related effective audit committee throughout the year.
Further reviews to audit work which in turn amounted to only 10 per cent of fees of the effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken paid to the external auditor.
In accordance with the Groups regularly and will, from time to time, be conducted by external Auditor Independence Policy, all services were approved prior consultants.
to work commencing and each of the non-audit services was confirmed to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake 112 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee Report Meetings Role of the Committee The Committee normally has scheduled meetings at least four The Remuneration Committee the Committee determines the times a year and a number of additional meetings, as required, remuneration packages of the Chairman and executive directors.
to review remuneration policy and the application of that It also agrees the principles and monitors the level and structure policy.
While the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not of remuneration for a dened population of management as members, they attend meetings unless they have a conict of determined by the Board.
In framing its remuneration policy, interest.
During 2010 a total of seven Committee meetings were the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions held.
Details of Committee members attendance is set out of Schedule A to the Combined Code 2008.
Full details of the activities of the Remuneration Remuneration Report prepared by the Board is set out in full Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 123 to 148.
In preparing the report, the Board has on page 123 to 148. followed the provisions of the Combined Code 2008, the Code of Corporate Governance Practices in Appendix 14 of the Rules Nomination Committee Report Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Role of the Committee Hong Kong, the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Nomination Committee the Committee, in consultation and the Companies Act 2006. with the Board, evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identies the roles and capabilities Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief required at any given time taking into account the Groups Executive, when only the Chairman is consulted, the Committee business and with due regard for the benets of diversity on the consults the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive about Board, including gender.
Candidates are considered on merit the Committee's proposals relating to the remuneration of all against those criteria and the Committee makes recommendations executive directors.
The Committee has access to professional to the Board regarding suitable candidates for appointments.
advice inside and outside the Company.
In appropriate cases search consultants are used to identify The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the candidates.
The Committee also reviews conicts of interest or Board and kept under regular review, are available on our potential conicts of interest raised by directors between Board website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru meetings or for prospective new Board members.
In cases where corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may be obtained there might be an actual or potential conict of interest the upon request from the Company Secretary at the Companys Committee has powers to authorise any such actual or potential registered ofce.
conict situation on behalf of the Board, imposing any terms and conditions it deems appropriate, or to make recommendations to The terms of reference comply with all significant aspects of the Board as to whether the conict or potential conict should be relevant investor guidelines and require the Committee to ensure authorised and on what terms.
that the Company adopts a remuneration policy which rewards executive directors for their contribution to sustainably and During 2010 the Committee met six times and recommended responsibly enhancing shareholder value.
to the Board that Howard Davies and Paul Manduca, who were both appointed with the assistance of external search Membership consultants, be appointed as non-executive directors.
The The Committee is comprised exclusively of independent Committee further recommended the appointment of Mike non-executive directors of the Company as set out below.
Wells and John Foley as executive directors with effect from January 2011.
Full biographical details of the directors are set Bridget Macaskill Chairman out on pages 100 to 103.
Keki Dadiseth Michael Garrett The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the Board James Ross to 9 November 2010 and kept under regular review, are available on our website at: Lord Turnbull from 9 November 2010 www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru corporate Paul Manduca from 9 November 2010 governance Alternatively, copies may be obtained upon request from the Company Secretary at the Companys Full biographical details of the members of the Committee, registered ofce.
including their relevant experience are set out on pages 100 to 103.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 113 Membership Meetings The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive The Committee expects to hold at least four scheduled meetings directors and the Chairman, as set out below: a year.
The Committee will report on its activities in the Annual Report 2011 after it has completed its first year of business.
Harvey McGrath Chairman Bridget Macaskill Internal control and risk management James Ross The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal Kathleen ODonovan from 9 November 2010 control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Paul Manduca from 1 January 2011 The framework setting out the Groups approach to internal control, risk management and corporate responsibility comprises Meetings the following: The Committee meets as required to consider candidates for appointment to the Board and to make recommendations to the Group governance framework: Documents the Groups Board in respect of those candidates.
The Group Chief Executive internal control policies and processes in an online manual, is closely involved in the work of the Committee and is invited to including the Groups risk framework, code of business attend and contribute to meetings.
conduct and detailed policies on key operational and financial risks.
Business units are also required to follow any additional Details of Committee members attendance at meetings are set processes necessary to comply with local statutory and out on page 107. regulatory requirements.
The process of evaluating the skills and composition of the Board Group risk framework: Provides an overview of the Groupis ongoing and is kept under regular review in order to ensure wide philosophy and approach to risk management and sets appropriate plans for succession to the Board are in place.
out the key risk management processes which support the Groups compliance with internal, statutory and regulatory Risk Committee Report requirements.
Role of the Committee Corporate responsibility framework: Provides an overview The Risk Committee was established in November 2010 and has of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to corporate responsibility for providing leadership, direction and oversight responsibility: supports the Groups commercial focus and the with regard to the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance increasing challenges faced including changes in stakeholder and risk management framework, including risk policies and expectations.
A key element is the Group Code of Business processes and controls, and to providing oversight in respect Conduct which sets out the ethical standards the Board of the Group Chief Risk Ofcers responsibilities.
requires of itself, employees, agents and others working on behalf of the Group, in their dealings with employees, The Committee has terms of reference which are set by the Board customers, shareholders, suppliers, and competitors, and will be kept under regular review.
The terms are available on in the wider community and in respect of the environment.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may be obtained The Business Review provides further detail on Prudentials from the Company Secretary at the Registered Ofce.
risk appetite and exposures on pages 80 to 86 and corporate responsibility activities on pages 91 to 98.
Membership The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors as set out below: Howard Davies Chairman Ann Godbehere James Ross Lord Turnbull 114 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Further details on the procedures for the management of risk The chief executive and chief financial officer of each business and the systems of internal control operated by the Group are unit annually certies compliance with the Groups governance, given in the section on Risk Governance on pages 115 to 116. internal control and risk management requirements.
The risk The governance framework principally relates to the operational management function reviewed any matters identied by management of the Groups businesses and includes prebusiness units in their certication, and also assessed the risk determined authority limits delegated by the Board in respect and control issues that arose and were reported during the year.
of matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day This included: routine and exception-based risk reporting: running and management of the business.
The Group Chief matters identied and reported by other Group Head Ofce Executive has been delegated management authority by the oversight functions and the findings from the work of the Board and in turn grants authority to the executive, including the internal audit function, who execute risk-based audit plans chief executive ofcers of each business unit who report to him throughout the Group.
The results were reported to, and for the management of that business unit.
In addition, each of reviewed by, the Group Audit Committee.
those chief executives has established a management board In line with the Turnbull guidance, the certication provided comprising the business units most senior executives.
above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the the Group does not exercise full management control.
In these Corporate Governance Codes.
In complying with the cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance and risk Combined Code 2008, the Group follows the 2005 Turnbull management arrangements are in place to protect the Groups Guidance relating to the sections of the Code dealing with risk interests.
However, the relevant Group company which is party management and internal control.
The Board reviewed the to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it provides in effectiveness of the system of internal control in February 2011, support of the joint venture, comply with the requirements covering all material controls, including financial, operational of the Groups internal governance framework.
and compliance controls, risk management systems and the The internal control and risk management systems described adequacy of the resources, qualications and experience of staff above and also under the sections on Risk Governance on page of the issuers accounting and financial reporting function.
The 115 and the Group Audit Committee on page 109, cover the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
Group, which has been in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE RISK GOVERNANCE 115 RISK GOVERNANCE Group-level framework BOARD BOARD NOMINATION REMUNERATION GROUP RISK GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence EXECUTIVES GROUP CEO GEC GERC GROUP CRO BSCMC CFO MANAGEMENT GCRC GORC STOC GROUP GROUP GROUP-WIDE GROUP COMPLIANCE RISK INTERNAL AUDIT SECURITY KEY GEC: Group Executive Committee BSCMC: Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee GERC: Group Executive Risk Committee GHO Functions Board-level Committees GCRC: Group Credit Risk Committee Direct Reporting Line Executive personnel GORC: Group Operational Risk Committee STOC: Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee permanent Regular Communication Exec Management Committee successor to Technical Assurance Committee and Escalation Organisation Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee: Meets monthly to monitor the Groups liquidity and oversee Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for the activities of Prudential Capital.
identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Risk oversight 2nd LoD : Risk exposures are monitored and Group.
The framework is based on the concept of three lines of reviewed by Group-level risk committees chaired by the Group defence LoD : risk management, risk oversight and Chief Risk officer or the Chief Financial officer.
Group Executive Risk Committee: Meets monthly to oversee The diagram above outlines the Group-level framework.
the Groups risk exposures market, credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risks and to monitor capital.
Risk management 1st LoD : As described in the corporate governance report, primary responsibility for strategy, Group Operational Risk Committee: Reports to the Group performance management and risk control lies with the Board, Executive Risk Committee and meets quarterly to oversee the which has established the Risk Committee to assist in providing Groups non-financial operational, business environment and leadership, direction and oversight, and with the Group Chief strategic risk exposures.
Executive and the chief executives of each business unit.
116 GOVERNANCE RISK GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RISK GOVERNANCE Group Credit Risk Committee: Reports to the Group Executive The Group has five objectives for risk and capital management: Risk Committee and meets monthly to review the Groups Framework: Design, implement and maintain a capital investment and counterparty credit risk positions.
management and risk oversight framework consistent with the Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee: Will be created Groups risk appetite and Risk-Adjusted profitability RAP model.
when the Solvency II programme is complete, to provide ongoing Monitoring: Establish a no surprises risk management culture by technical oversight and advice to the executive and the Board in identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk carrying out their duties with regard to the Groups Internal Model.
exposures and understanding change drivers.
The committees oversight is supported by the Group Chief Risk Control: Implement risk mitigation strategies and remedial actions officer with functional oversight provided by: where exposures are deemed inappropriate and manage the Group Security: Develop and deliver appropriate security response to extreme events.
measures to protect the Groups staff, physical assets and Communication: Communicate the Group risk, capital and intellectual property.
profitability position to internal and external stakeholders and Group Compliance: Verify compliance with regulatory standards rating agencies.
and inform the Groups management and the Board on key Culture: Foster a risk management culture, providing quality regulatory issues affecting the Group.
assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice risk Group Risk: Establish and embed a capital management and risk measurement and management across the Group and industry.
oversight framework and culture consistent with Prudentials risk appetite that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and Reporting franchise value.
The Group's economic capital position and overall position against risk limits is reviewed regularly by the Group Executive Independent assurance: As described in the Corporate Risk Committee.
Key economic capital metrics, as well as RAP Governance Report, the Group Audit Committee, supported by information, are included in business plans, which are reviewed Group-wide Internal Audit, provides independent assurance and by the Group Executive Committee and approved by the Board.
oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
The Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee are provided with regular reports on the activities of Group Risk.
Principles and objectives These reports include information on the activities of the Group Risk is dened as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in Operational Risk Committee and Group Credit Risk Committee.
successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
This Group Head Ofce oversight functions have clear escalation includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions that have criteria and processes for the timely reporting of risks and the potential to threaten the success and survival of Prudential.
As appropriate, these risks and The control procedures and systems established within the Group incidents are escalated to the various Group-level risk committees are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to and the Board.
They can only provide reasonable and Internal business unit routine reporting requirements vary not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and according to the nature of the business.
Each business unit is focus on aligning the levels of risk-taking with the achievement of responsible for ensuring that its risk reporting framework meets business objectives.
both the needs of the business unit for example, reporting to the Material risks will only be retained where this is consistent with business unit risk and audit committees and the minimum Prudentials risk appetite framework and its philosophy towards standards set by the Group for example, to meet Group-level risk-taking, that is: reporting requirements.
the retention of the risk contributes to value creation, Business units review their risks as part of the annual preparation the Group is able to withstand the impact of an adverse of their business plans, and review opportunities and risks against outcome, business objectives regularly with Group Head Ofce.
Group Risk the Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, reviews and reports to Group Head Ofce on the impact of large processes and controls to manage the risk.
transactions or divergences from business plan.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS 117 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Communication with shareholders Company constitution As a major institutional investor, the Company is very The Company is governed by the Companies Act 2006, other aware of the importance of maintaining good relations with applicable legislation and regulation as well as by provisions its shareholders.
Discussions are held regularly with major of its Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association are shareholders and a programme of meetings took place during available on our website at www.
In addition, Prudential also held an investor day in prudential-plc aboutpru memorandum December 2010 and plans to make this an annual event.
Any change to the Articles must be approved by special A perception survey into the views of the Companys major resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the provisions investors is undertaken regularly by an independent rm of the Companies Act 2006. and the results of this survey are presented to the Board.
Board members also regularly receive copies of the latest Share capital analysts and brokers reports on the Company and the sector On 31 December 2010, the Companys issued share to further develop their knowledge and understanding of capital, which is set out in Note H11 on page 321, consisted of external views about the Company.
The Chairman and the 2,545,594,506 2009: 2,532,227,471 ordinary shares of 5 pence non-executive directors provided feedback to the Board on each, all fully paid up and listed on the London Stock Exchange topics raised with them by major shareholders.
Should major and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
The number of accounts shareholders wish to meet newly appointed directors, or any on the share register at 31 December 2010 was 66,048 of the directors generally, they are welcome to do so.
The Company maintains secondary listings The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American containing a wide range of relevant information for private and Depositary Shares which are referenced to its ordinary shares, institutional investors, including the Groups financial calendar.
under a depositary agreement with J. P. Morgan, and on the The shareholder information section on pages 443 to 444 Singapore Stock Exchange.
contains further details which may be of interest to shareholders.
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, the Company Annual General Meeting has maintained a public oat of at least 25 per cent of the issued The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill share capital from the date of listing on 25 May 2010 to the date Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, of this report.
Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on 19 May 2011 at 11.00am.
The Company believes the Annual A number of dividend waivers are in place and these relate to General Meeting is an important forum for both institutional shares issued, but not allocated, under the Groups employee and private shareholders and encourages all its shareholders share plan.
These shares are held by the Trustees and will, in to vote.
Shareholders are given the opportunity during annual due course, be used to satisfy requirements under the Groups general meetings to put questions to the Board on matters employee share plans.
relating to the Groups operations and performance.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company continued its practice of calling a poll on all resolutions.
The voting results and all proxies lodged prior to the meeting were displayed at the meeting and published on the Company's website.
This practice provides shareholders present with sufficient information regarding the level of support and opposition to each resolution and ensures that all votes cast, either at the meeting or through proxies, are included in the result.
118 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS CONTINUED RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Rights and obligations Some of the Companys employee share plans include The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject to are set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
As described in the Directors Remuneration Report, are currently no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, all of non-executive directors use a proportion of their fees to which are fully paid, and each share carries one vote on a poll.
purchase shares in the Company which may not normally be If votes are cast on a show of hands, each shareholder present in transferred during a directors period of ofce.
In addition, all person or by proxy, or in the case of a corporation, each of its directors are required to obtain a number of qualication shares duly authorised corporate representatives, has one vote, unless within one year of appointment, which they would also be the proxy is appointed by more than one member in which case expected to retain during their tenure of ofce.
Executive the proxy has one vote for and one vote against if the proxy has directors are also required to build up their shareholding in been instructed by one or more members to vote for the the Company.
resolution and by one or more members to vote against the resolution.
Significant shareholdings As at 8 March 2011, the Company had received notication, in Where, under an employee share plan operated by the accordance with Rule 5.1.
2 R of the Disclosure and Transparency Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares Rules of the Financial Services Authority, from Capital Research but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally and Management Company, Blackrock Inc. Norges Bank and exercisable by the registered owner in accordance with the Legal and General Group plc that they held 11.65 per cent, relevant plan rules.
Trustees may vote at their discretion, but 5.01 per cent, 4.01 per cent and 3.99 per cent respectively do not vote on any unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the time As at 8 March 2011, Trustees held 0.19 per cent of the issued of notication.
share capital of the Company under the various plans in operation.
Authority to issue shares The directors require authority from shareholders in relation to Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out the issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares are issued in Note I4 on page 345. the Company has to offer the shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings unless it has been given authority Restrictions on transfer by shareholders to issue shares without offering them first to In accordance with English company law, shares may be existing shareholders.
The Company seeks authority from its transferred by an instrument of transfer or through an electronic shareholders on an annual basis to issue shares up to a maximum system currently CREST and transfer is not restricted except amount and to issue up to five per cent of its issued share capital that the directors may, in certain circumstances, refuse to without observing pre-emption rights, in line with relevant register transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not regulations and best practice.
Dis-application of statutory prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and pre-emption procedures is also sought for rights issues.
If the directors make use of that power, they must Companys existing authorities to issue shares and to do so send the transferee notice of the refusal within two months.
without observing pre-emption rights are due to expire at the Certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by end of this years Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary applicable laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws resolution and a special resolution to approve the renewal and pursuant to the Listing Rules of both the Financial Services of these authorities respectively, will be put to shareholders Authority and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, as well as at the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2011.
Prudentials own share dealing rules, whereby directors and Details of shares issued during 2009 and 2010 are given in note certain employees of the Company require the approval of the H11 on page 321.
Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, the Company confirms that it complies with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding of shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver in connection with the purchase of own shares and any treasury shares it may hold.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 119 Authority to purchase own shares monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls The directors also require authority from shareholders in relation and procedures: to the purchase of own shares by the Company.
The Company review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and seeks authority by special resolution on an annual basis for the Chief Financial officer with regard to the scope and content buyback of its own shares in accordance with the relevant of all public disclosures made by the Company which are provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other related of material signicance to the market or investors: and guidance.
The Company has not made use of that authority since review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, it was last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2010.
This matters raised by other components of the disclosure process.
existing authority is due to expire at the end of this years Annual These may include, to the extent they are relevant to the General Meeting.
A special resolution to approve the renewal of disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Group this authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor Meeting on 19 May 2011. of the Companys internal controls.
In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support Model Code for Securities Transactions by Directors the certications by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Prudential has adopted share dealing rules which incorporate Financial officer of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures the UK Model Code on share dealing and the Hong Kong Model and controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
Code for Securities Transactions by Directors.
Prudential operates various employee share plans and has obtained a The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require the Company's number of waivers from the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong in management to report on the effectiveness of internal controls order to facilitate the normal operation of those plans.
over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which is led with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
To Following specic enquiry, the directors have confirmed their comply with this requirement to report on the effectiveness of compliance with these rules.
internal control, the Group has documented and tested its internal controls over financial reporting in the format required US corporate governance and regulations by the Act.
The annual assessment and related report from the As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock external auditor will be included in the Group's annual report on Exchange, the Company is required to comply with the relevant Form 20-F, which will be published in the coming months.
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as they In addition, the Disclosure Committee evaluates whether or not apply to foreign private issuers and has adopted procedures to ensure this is the case.
a particular matter requires disclosure to the market, taking into account relevant regulations.
In particular, in relation to the provisions of Section 302 of that Act, which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has been established reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial officer and comprising members of senior management.
The objectives of this Committee are to: assist the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: 120 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate responsibility in directing and controlling the business.
In terms of the governance of our corporate responsibility strategy, Harvey McGrath, the Chairman, has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance in these areas at least once a year and also reviews and approves Prudentials corporate responsibility report and strategy on an annual basis.
Below Board level, the Responsibility Committee is a specialist Group-wide committee.
This committee is responsible for reviewing Prudentials business conduct and social and environmental policy and ensures consistency of approach across the Groups international businesses.
Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and supported by our corporate responsibility philosophy and programme, which takes into account local cultures and requirements across our businesses.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in our Group Head Ofce, develops Prudentials corporate responsibility strategy and works closely with individual business units to provide advice.
The team also assists with the development and adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they not only t with our overall Group principles but are also adapted to meet local needs.
