Audit Committee report Committee members The current members of the Audit Committee are the independent Non-executive Directors Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The chairman is a chartered accountant whilst other members have considerable experience of financial matters.
The Committee met on five occasions in 2010 2009: seven.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 34.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually.
Financial reporting The Committee considers: the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Companys financial reporting: the Groups accounting policies and any proposed changes: narrative statements and disclosures, to ensure that they are reasonable and consistent with the reported results.
Internal controls and risk management systems The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment of the work of the Group internal audit department, reports produced by the compliance functions, the half year and annual financial statements, the scope and findings of the annual external audit and periodic reviews with senior management.
During 2010, the Committee received a number of reports on financial reporting issues including the finance departments Group financial statements consolidation process, segmental reporting and capital planning.
It was involved in and consulted on the conversion of the basis of accounting for Group subsidiary companies from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
It also considered a Financial Reporting Council FRC update for audit committees on issues arising from current economic conditions.
Committee members visited offices in Bristol, Exeter, Liverpool and Winchester as well as London.
A separate Risk Management Committee considers risk management issues see page 34.
Internal audit The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis.
The frequency of reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the Audit Committee.
This ensures that whilst the focus is on higher risk areas, all parts of the business are covered over a three year cycle.
Regular updates are given to the Committee on the findings of internal audit reviews, the status of scheduled work and on the follow up of reviews to ensure that agreed recommendations are acted upon promptly.
The internal audit department will also undertake occasional ad hoc reviews at the request of management or the Committee.
The Committee also regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
External audit The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding change of audit firm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
At their December 2010 meeting, the Committee discussed the September 2010 public report by the FRC Audit Inspection Unit on their 2009 10 inspection of KPMG LLP and KPMG Audit Plc with the KPMG audit partner.
The Audit Committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied by the auditor and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the Audit Committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without the prior written approval of the Audit Committee.
Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2010 were 301,000.
This represents 67.3% of the audit fees of 447,000 which includes the audit of regulatory returns and of the interim statement 2009: 185,000, 51.4% of 360,000.
The Committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditor to provide certain non-audit services.
In 2010 the Committee and Board approved the use of KPMG for the provision of an independent opinion on an American Institute of Certified Public Accountants AICPA Statement on Auditing Standard No.
70 SAS70 Report on the Processing of Transactions by Service Organisations.
The cost of this work together with pension advice was primarily responsible for the high non-audit KPMG costs in 2010.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 47 Audit Committee report Report and accounts 2010 Role and responsibilities of the Committee continued The Committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditor has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Committee also reviews the audit engagement letters each year and has discussions with the auditor with no management present.
Regarding the 2010 audit, presentations were received from the auditor on audit progress, findings and recommendations and unadjusted errors.
Confidential reporting policy The Audit Committee annually reviews the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 confidential reporting policy and approves any changes to the document.
It also receives details of any reports made.
Other On invitation, the finance and other directors, compliance officers, senior internal audit staff and the external auditor attend meetings to assist the Committee to fulfil its duties.
The Committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
The Committee performs an annual review of its performance and this is also reviewed by the Board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 48 Audit Committee report
