Nomination Committee report Committee members The current members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews, Mark Nicholls and Andy Pomfret.
Kate Avery, Kathryn Matthews and Mark Nicholls joined the Committee on their appointment to the Board.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in 2010 2009: two.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 34.
It also had informal discussions on a number of other occasions during the year.
Role of the Committee The Committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of Directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new Directors.
When considering possible candidates, the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The Committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse Board with a broad range of skills and experience and this has been reflected in recent Board appointments.
Regarding succession planning, the Board is exposed to senior management below Board level during visits to other offices, attendance at internal meetings and presentations by senior managers to the Board.
In June 2010, a firm of headhunters was approached regarding the recruitment of a new Non-executive Director with a view to him or her becoming Chairman on the retirement of Mark Powell in 2011.
A long list of candidates was reviewed and four candidates selected for interview.
Following those interviews, the Committees recommendation to the Board was that Mark Nicholls be appointed.
All Directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every three years.
A Non-executive Director is not appointed for a fixed term but would not normally serve as a Director for more than nine years.
The Committee are mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that any term beyond six years for a Non-executive Director should be subject to particularly vigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 49 Nomination Committee report Report and accounts 2010
