Corporate governance report In relation to compliance with the Combined Code this report together with the Directors report states the position at 16 February 2011.
The Combined Code compliance statement The revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was issued in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and applies for reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
Explanations of how the Code principles and supporting principles have been applied are set out in the Governance sections of the report and accounts.
The Directors believe the Company was in compliance with Section 1 of the Code throughout the year with the following two exceptions which applied throughout the year: Independence of the Chairman on appointment Provision A.
2.2 The current Chairman did not, on appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in the Code since he had been an employee and Executive Director of the Company since 1995.
Composition of the Board Provision A.
3.2 There are currently 14 Directors, of which six 43% are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Code requires that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent Non-executive Directors.
The number of senior practitioners from within the operating subsidiaries on the Board does result in a sizeable number of Executive Directors, making the achievement of the Code target difficult.
Following the retirement of Mark Powell from the Board after the 2011 AGM, there will be 13 Directors on the Board of which six 46% will be independent Non-executive Directors.
The Financial Reporting Council issued the UK Corporate Governance Code in June 2010 which replaces the Combined Code and applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Board meetings The Board meets a minimum of seven times per annum with one meeting devoted entirely to strategic issues.
In months where no formal Board meeting is scheduled, an informal meeting of the Non-executive Directors and the Chairman and Chief Executive is generally held.
The Non-executive Directors also have informal meetings without the Chairman or Chief Executive present.
Board membership The Board currently consists of a Non-executive Chairman, seven Executive Directors and six other Non-executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman, Mark Powell, and Chief Executive, Andy Pomfret, are separated and are clearly defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the Board and its development of strategy and the Chief Executive for the running of the business and implementation of Board strategy and policy.
The Board considers that all of the Non-executive Directors are independent with the exception of Mark Powell as explained above.
The Non-executive Directors participate fully with their executive colleagues in Board meetings and have access to any information they need to perform their duties.
They bring an independent judgement to bear on Group policies and strategies as well as management actions and performance, including resourcing and standards of conduct.
The Senior Independent Director is David Harrel who is available to shareholders if they have concerns that they would rather not address to the Chairman or Executive Directors or which remain unresolved after an approach through the normal channels.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention, which covers key areas of the Groups business.
These include determination of the Groups aims and the strategy to be adopted in achieving those aims, reviews of budgets and financial statements, company acquisitions and disposals, major capital expenditure and the review of decisions taken by the boards of subsidiary companies.
Board performance The Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees carry out appraisals of their operation and performance on an annual basis.
In 2010, an internal questionnaire was used which was developed and executed with assistance from Lintstock Limited, a London based corporate advisory firm.
The 2009 review focused on the major corporate transaction in 2009 and on Board oversight during the credit crunch.
The 2010 questionnaire was of a more general nature and was particularly designed to gain a fresh perspective on the operation of the Board from the new Non-executive Directors.
Individual appraisal of each Directors performance is undertaken either by the Chief Executive for the Executive Directors or Chairman for the Non-executive Directors each year and involves meetings with each Director on a one to one basis.
The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, carry out an appraisal of the performance of the Chairman.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 32 Corporate governance report Board training Rathbones is committed to the training and development of all staff to ensure professional standards are maintained and enhanced.
All Directors are required to dedicate a certain number of hours to their own development internally established standards for this exceed regulatory requirements.
Training and development include activities to keep up to date with Rathbones specific issues and industry, market and regulatory changes.
New Directors are involved in a thorough induction process designed to enable them to become quickly familiar with the business.
This includes meeting staff in a number of key business areas, attendance at routine meetings and demonstrations of systems and key business processes.
Board Committees The four principal Board Committees are the Executive, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Board has delegated full authority to the Executive Committee, subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full Board.
The other Board Committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Companys registered office and on the Group website.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive, Andy Pomfret, and comprises Ian Buckley, Paul Chavasse, Richard Lanyon and Paul Stockton.
The purpose of the Executive Committee is to monitor every aspect of the Group businesses on a continuing basis and to analyse and plan all business proposals in detail for submission to and consideration by the Board.
The Executive Committee meets monthly and more frequently when required.
Audit Committee Current members of the Audit Committee are Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
Details of its work are set out in the Audit Committee report.
Remuneration Committee Current members of the Remuneration Committee are Caroline Burton chairman, Kate Avery, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Mark Nicholls.
Full details of its role are set out in the Remuneration report.
Nomination Committee Current members of the Nomination Committee are Mark Powell chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews, Mark Nicholls and Andy Pomfret.
Full details of its role are set out in the Nomination Committee report.
Conicts of interest A Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the Act to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows the Board to authorise a Directors conflict or potential conflict of interest where the Articles of Association contain a provision to this effect and also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
Shareholders approved the necessary changes to the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM on 7 May 2008.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Only independent Directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are also able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
A register of actual or potential conflicts notified and authorised is maintained and reviewed regularly by the Board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 33 Corporate governance report Report and accounts 2010 Other Board issues The Company has appropriate insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Any Director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and may seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board procedures are followed and compliance with rules and regulations applicable to the Company.
Any removal or appointment of the Company Secretary is decided by the Board.
Board meeting and committee attendance in 2010 1 2 Plc Board Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee C R R Avery 5 7 4 5 4 5 2 2 J C Barclay 2 2 1 2 1 2 0 0 I M Buckley 7 7 11 12 - C M Burton 6 7 5 5 5 5 2 2 P D G Chavasse 6 7 12 12 O R P Corbett 6 7 5 5 4 5 2 2 D T D Harrel 6 7 3 5 4 5 2 2 R P Lanyon 6 7 11 12 K A Matthews 7 7 5 5 5 5 2 2 J M May 6 6 1 2 A T Morris 7 7 M P Nicholls 1 1 1 1 0 0 P G Pearson Lund 2 2 A D Pomfret 7 7 12 12 2 2 G M Powell 7 7 1 2 M Robertshaw 2 2 2 2 2 2 0 0 R I Smeeton 7 7 R P Stockton 7 7 12 12 1 Scheduled bi-monthly meeting 2 Scheduled monthly meeting Shareholder relations The Company is committed to ensuring that there is effective communication with all shareholders.
All regulatory news announcements, press releases and financial reports are available on the Group website.
An HTML version of the 2010 report and accounts will be available online.
Following the publication of the interim and full year results, presentations are given to major shareholders, investment managers, analysts and employees.
The presentation packs used and any webcasts are also on the website.
Meetings with major shareholders provide an opportunity to discuss governance and strategy issues and to introduce other Directors including Non-executive Directors.
Feedback from these meetings is reported to the Board.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet Non-executive Directors at the AGM.
At least 20 business days notice of the AGM is given to allow time for proper consideration of the resolutions by shareholders.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue.
Every effort is made to ensure that all Board members, and in particular committee chairmen, are at the meeting.
The Board welcomes questions and comments from shareholders.
Votes are taken on a show of hands unless a poll is requested and full details of proxy voting figures are disclosed after the vote and on the website.
Risk management and internal control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Chairman ensures that Board members receive sufficient and timely information regarding corporate and business issues to enable them to discharge their duties and canvasses the views of Non-executive Directors upon the adequacy of the management information.
Risk appetite The Board have articulated their detailed risk appetite to the FSA as part of the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP with some of the risks covered set out below.
The overall risk appetite is assessed to be low to medium.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 34 Corporate governance report Risk management and internal control continued Risk governance Risk Management Committee Ian Buckley is the Director with specific responsibility for risk management.
He chairs the Risk Management Committee which reports to the Board.
It comprises all members of the Executive Committee together with the Group heads of personnel, compliance and internal audit.
Non-executive Directors are also often in attendance.
This Committee is an important element in the Groups overall control system and undertakes a review of risk within the Group at its quarterly meetings.
It reports on a regular basis to the Board both on the identification of risks and the steps being taken to control or mitigate such risks.
Risk review procedures have been in place throughout the year and up to 16 February 2011.
The risk management process A risk register is maintained which is the principal tool for monitoring risks.
Each risk is rated by assessing each risks probability of occurring and its impact if it does occur using a 1 5 scoring system.
The inherent risk score is then reduced if the risk is reduced by internal controls or by insurance to give a residual risk score.
Risks are then ranked and the top ten risks identified together with a list of other emerging risks and issues.
The financial impacts of risks are also assessed where possible for regulatory capital assessment purposes.
The other key elements of the Groups overall control systems include: a formal structure of committees and subsidiary company boards where senior staff oversee the operation of the business on a regular basis: an annual budgeting, regular forecasting and monthly financial reporting system for all Group divisions, which enables trends to be evaluated and variances to be acted upon: daily monitoring of regulatory capital and liquidity levels, interest rate and counterparty exposures: the monitoring of key risk and key performance indicators: an ICAAP required by FSA prudential rules which requires regular assessments of the amounts, types and distribution of capital that the Group considers adequate to cover the nature and level of the risks to which it is or might be exposed: a defined set of policies and procedures for treasury operations with limits set regularly by the Banking Committee: a confidential reporting policy, which encourages employees to raise serious concerns about a colleagues or Group companys practice: independent reviews of operational systems and controls: an appropriately skilled and staffed internal audit department: and the Audit Committee which, on the Boards behalf, examines the effectiveness of the systems of control as explained below.
Risk scoring Probability Score Impact Score Very high Will occur 5 Very severe 5 Over 10.0 million High Greater than 50% chance in 4 Severe 4 a 2 year period 2.5 million 10.0 million Medium Less than 50% chance in a 3 Moderate 3 2 5 year period 1.0 million 2.5 million Low Unlikely to occur in a 2 Low 2 10 year period Less than 1.0 million Very low A potential 1 in 50 year scenario 1 Insignificant 1 Chart 1.
Risk impact probability map Very high 5 High level risks High 4 Medium level risks Medium 3 Low 2 Low level risks Very low 1 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 Very low Low Medium High Very high Impact of risk Probability of occurrence Rathbone Brothers Plc 35 Corporate governance report Report and accounts 2010 Risk management and internal control continued The top 10 risks Risks can be broadly categorised under one of three headings, business risk, operational risk and financial risk.
Top 10 risks are drawn from each of these risk categories and are updated monthly.
Top 10 risks identified at 31 December 2010 together with their risk categories are shown in table 3.
The top 10 risks Category 1 Negative impact of regulation Business 2 Inappropriate IT strategy Operational 3 Accounting or regulatory reporting error Operational 4 Adverse impact of a poor acquisition Operational 5 Treasury counterparty default Financial 6 Competition risk Business 7 Poor performance of Rathbone Unit Trust funds Operational 8 Damage to Rathbones reputation Business 9 Loss of an investment management team Operational 10 Client litigation Operational Business risks Negative impact of regulation Rathbones operate in a heavily regulated industry in which failure to comply with regulatory requirements can lead to significant fines and penalties.
The Groups profitability could be reduced or increased by future regulatory changes.
Rathbones is involved with a number of representative industry bodies and maintains close contact with the FSA and other regulators.
Competition risk Rathbones operates in a competitive market and therefore there is a risk of loss of existing clients or failure to gain new clients due to poor performance or service, failure to respond to changes and demands in the marketplace, inadequate investment in marketing or distribution, or the loss of key investment professionals.
Damage to Rathbones reputation Reputational risk could arise for many reasons including poor performance or service, or regulatory censure leading to negative publicity.
This risk is reduced by greater management monitoring of higher risk activities and the swift, open and transparent resolution of any issues that arise.
Business marketing and the use of public and media relations professionals also reduce the risk of reputational damage.
Operational risks Inappropriate IT strategy In an increasingly IT led business, our core investment management system is considered by many to be a market leader but continual change and development is needed which can be challenging.
System changes are evolutionary and are made with the close involvement of users to reduce the risk of costly developments not meeting the needs of the business.
Accounting or regulatory reporting error Increasingly complex accounting and reporting demands, particularly in the areas of financial and regulatory reporting, increase the risk of error.
Documented processes and controls and close management oversight reduce the risk of such errors.
Adverse impact of a poor acquisition Acquisitions create a financial risk associated with the lower than anticipated taking on of clients.
They can also create operational disruption and disruption to the culture of the business which can be costly.
Potential acquisitions are subject to rigorous review and assessment before any recommendation to the Board is made.
Poor performance of Rathbone Unit Trust Management funds In common with all unit trust managers, the success of Rathbone Unit Trust Management is highly dependent on the performance of the funds it manages.
These risks are reduced by a robust investment process which includes regular and open analysis and discussion of performance.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 36 Corporate governance report Risk management and internal control continued Loss of an investment management team The impact of the loss of an investment management team would clearly depend on its size and location.
This risk is mitigated by employment contract provisions and competitive remuneration packages including profit share and a new business incentive scheme with deferred awards.
Client litigation Litigation can be costly.
Investment Managers will gather a good deal of background information about their clients and will aim to provide an investment portfolio that is suitable for their needs, recognising that the value of all investments can fall as well as rise.
Our investment process provides guidance on asset allocation and research on investments and investment products.
Sound business practice reduces the risk of client dissatisfaction and complaint.
Financial risks Treasury counterparty default This risk mainly arises from the placement of surplus investment client cash which is held under a banking relationship.
It is reduced by the use of a wide range of financial institutions with long term ratings above a minimum level, with exposure limits for each institution.
Exposures are monitored daily and reviewed by the Banking Committee each month.
This and other financial risks are also considered in detail in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
The business review on page 11 highlights factors in the year which have had an impact on Rathbones risk profile.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in existence in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2010 and has taken account of material developments since the year end.
Necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
This process meets the requirements of the Guidance on Internal Control The Turnbull Guidance published in September 1999 and revised in October 2005.
Going concern The Companys business activities, risks and uncertainties, financial performance in 2010 and the financial position at 31 December 2010 are summarised in the business review on page 11.
Note 28 to the consolidated financial statements summarises how the Group manages its financial risk.
Regulation Rathbone Investment Management Limited, Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited and Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services Limited are all authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Rathbone Investment Management Limited is registered as an investment adviser with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Rathbone Investment Management International Limited is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
The Board together with the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee have implemented systems and procedures to ensure adherence to the statutes and regulations relevant to each of the Group companies.
Model code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 37 Corporate governance report Report and accounts 2010
