Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 47 Our CR leadership We support all our employees who wish to Developing leadership and talent develop their careers, encouraging them to We ensure that our people have the right skills Gordon Hurst progress through training.
Under the 'Capita and knowledge to do their jobs and help deliver Group Finance Director Academy' programme we deliver training our business strategy.
In order to retain the best Overall responsibility for CR through the most appropriate channel and people we give them the opportunity to grow activities and strategy provide 4 main types of training: and develop.
Job specic courses Our training programme Capita Manager Personal development courses Academy ensures we equip our senior managers with the right skills to respond to Vocational courses our clients needs and manage, support and Professional qualications.
Group Board CR Steering Group motivate our people effectively.
Over 2,500 In 2010, we invested 8.3m in employee Specic CR leadership Develop key policies and days training were delivered through this in responsibilities procedures for specic areas training, providing 6,327 training days for our house programme in 2010. employees.
In addition to formal training many We encourage knowledge sharing across the employees receive workplace training, coaching Paul Pindar Shona Nichols Group and actively reassign managers to new and group instruction.
By developing our Charitable support Community engagement business areas.
Succession planning is also a key employees and offering them a range of career and charitable support element of our strategy, ensuring that we have development opportunities we ensure that they the appropriate resources in place to maintain are motivated and committed this can be Maggi Bell stable leadership.
Juliet Feeny demonstrated by our high retention rate.
In Community engagement Charitable support and 2010, our retention rate for senior managers CR reporting was 84% 2009: 88% and our overall Andy Parker and employee retention rate was 83% 2009: 84%.
Vic Gysin Claire Neal Employees and clients Employees Gordon Hurst Andy Brockie Supply chain and New business development environment John Kost Environment David Murphy Supply chain Gaynor Rich Business practices
