Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 71 Board and Committee members, frequency of meetings and Any Director's non-attendance at Board meetings or meetings of the attendance Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness and or absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, During 2010 the Board met 9 times, excluding ad hoc meetings, solely the Chief Executive or the Chairman of the relevant committee.
to deal with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee met 2 and 3 times during the year, respectively.
The Audit Committee met 4 times during the year.
Attendance is recorded in the table below: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Scheduled meetings 92 3 4 Martin Bolland 922 3 Paul Pindar 9 Gordon Hurst 9 Simon Pilling 9 Maggi Bell 9 Nigel Wilson 6 1 2 Paul Bowtell 4 1 Paddy Doyle 92 Martina King 82 3 4 Bill Grimsey 42 3 3 Nigel Wilson, Paul Bowtell were appointed in May and June respectively and Bill Grimsey stood down as a Director in July.
Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting times has to include exibility to hold meetings outside of this timetable and meetings of this nature tend to be held by telephone.
Committees terms of reference The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are summarised in the table below and displayed in full in the investor centre at www.
co. uk investors and are along with the matters reserved for the Board.
Terms of reference Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Brief description of responsibilities Reviews composition of Board.
Reviews accounting policies and the Sets the policy for Executive Directors and Recommends appointment of new contents of financial reports.
Monitors the senior executives remuneration.
Considers succession plans internal control environment.
Agrees for Chairman and Executive positions.
the adequacy and scope of the external changes to senior executive incentive plans.
Oversees the relationship with our external auditors.
Monitors risk prole and obtains assurance that principal risks have been properly identied and appropriately managed.
