Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 72 Dialogue with shareholders Internal control The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for objectives between the Group and its shareholders.
As part of this process regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, the Executive Directors make regular presentations and meet with inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or institutional shareholders to discuss any issues of concern, to obtain disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of feedback and to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All shareholders financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to information for shareholders is available on the Company website achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not www.
All the Non-Executive Directors absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
There is an are available to meet with shareholders to understand their views more ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks fully.
The Chairman is personally available to the significant shareholders faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout the year under in the Group.
review and up to the date of approval of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups During the year Martina King, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee key internal control procedures include the following: met with several institutional investors to discuss how the shareholders would prefer to see the remuneration structured given the current The Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor the strategy of providing a low basic pay and the linkage of basic pay to long application of policies, procedures and standards in areas including term incentives.
operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, human resources and health and safety, information security and The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day property management and corporate social responsibility and the responsibility for managing shareholder communications and always acts environment and these policies are cascaded to the businesses via the in close consultation with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting Monthly Operating Board MOB review process and additional internal of the Corporate Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group communication channels Finance Director ensures all appropriate communications are made to the London Stock Exchange and shareholders.
Shareholders can also access Authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions up-to-date information through the investor centre section of the Groups that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing website at www.
A telephone helpline, Directors, within limits set by the Group, including the recruitment 0871 664 0300, provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
of the underlying management teams.
The Board establishes key operations, functional and financial reporting standards for application All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive across the whole Group and this is cascaded through the MOB review a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and feedback process.
These are supplemented by operational standards set by local that follows the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment management teams, as required for the type of business and analysts and shareholders.
All brokers` reports and analysts` briengs geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit concerning Capita are circulated to the Directors.
Comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual Directors, including the Chairmen of the various committees, are present business unit level and summarised at a Divisional and Group level.
at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
The Board Financial plans are reviewed and approved by the Board following particularly encourages communication with and the participation of challenge within the MOB review process.
Capital expenditure is subject private investors at the Annual General Meeting.
to rigorous budgetary control beyond specified levels and detailed written proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Board Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 73 Results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged control.
The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include directly by Executive Directors of the Board on a Group-wide basis and at regular MOB review reports, periodic updates from the Audit Committee the business unit level each month.
The Non-Executive Directors based on its review of risk management, business assurance and challenge the Executive Directors at each Board meeting compliance reports by the relevant Group functions: discussions with and reports from the external auditors and other advisers.
A framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, Through the above mechanisms, the Board and the Audit Committee have information security, regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes performed a Group-wide review of the effectiveness of the internal specic provision for risk-based due diligence in respect of business control system, including financial and operational controls and risk acquisitions and new customer contracts.
Exposure to business risk is management in accordance with the Combined Code for the period from monitored as an integral part of the MOB review process and by the 1 January 2010 to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Audit Committee Accounts.
The Board and the Audit Committee is satisfied with the process of monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and complies The Group risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code businesses, including all financial services related business streams, by a issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and number of formally constituted local boards, which in turn are in the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005. underpinned by dedicated risk committees,.
These committees provide an appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk prole for these The implications of the Arch cru situation, which arose in 2009, are still businesses, including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating being evaluated as explained in note 25 on page 117.
Subject to this actions to be challenged and tracked evaluation, no significant failings or weaknesses have been identied in the Group-wide review.
Notwithstanding this, the controls within Capita The Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group Financial Managers business have been reviewed in detail and controls Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
In addition have been enhanced where appropriate.
to independently facilitating the Groups risk management framework, it delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance on Risk management and governance is also referred to on pages 33 and the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the 38 to 39. business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as determined by the Group risk framework, and an independent view of those risks is taken by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function In addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the Group Compliance Director reporting through the Group Finance Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
Dedicated compliance teams within the relevant businesses independently monitor regulatory compliance by way of risk-based work programmes and support operations in identifying and mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part of the Group risk framework Both the Group Compliance function and Group Risk and Business Assurance function routinely apprise the Groups senior management and the Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
