Business review Governance Accounts Corporate governance report The Capita Group Plc 67 For each appointment the Board undertook a formal appointment Board leadership process, led by the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, As described in previous years, the Board continues to support the need the assistance of independent external search consultants.
to segregate the responsibility of operating the Board and the management of the underlying business.
Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive Board changes in the year Chairman and Paul Pindars role as Chief Executive are separate.
During the year the Board balance has uctuated.
Below is a table showing Martin Bolland as Chairman and Nigel Wilson as Senior Independent the changes made for clarity.
Director are available to lead meetings of the Non-Executive Directors Composition of the Board.
without the Executives being present and both Martin and Nigel are Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors also available to meet with shareholders when requested.
Jan to 1 March 2010 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland Role of the Board Gordon Hurst Martina King Simon Pilling Bill Grimsey The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to act in a way they consider, Maggi Bell in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Paddy Doyle Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the 1 March to May 2010 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland Directors must have regard amongst other matters to: Gordon Hurst Martina King Simon Pilling Bill Grimsey The likely consequences of any decision in the long term Maggi Bell Paddy Doyle The interests of the Company's employees May to June 2010 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland The need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson and others Simon Pilling Martina King Maggi Bell Bill Grimsey The impact of the Company's operations on the community and the Paddy Doyle environment June to July 2010 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson Simon Pilling Martina King standards of business conduct Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell The need to act fairly as between shareholders of the Company.
Bill Grimsey Paddy Doyle In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
July to Dec 2010 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group Simon Pilling Paul Bowtell to deliver long term value, providing overall strategic direction within an Maggi Bell Martina King appropriate framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board Paddy Doyle is collectively responsible for the success of the Group: the Executive January 2011 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations and Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent Vic Gysin Martina King judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
The Andy Parker Paddy Doyle Non-Executive Directors must satisfy themselves on the integrity of Independent in accordance with the Combined Code.
financial information and that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust.
Following presentation by executive management and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Board, clear decisions on the policy or strategy are adopted, and the executive management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
