CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 31 The Directors present their Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 March 2010.
Apart from certain matters reported below, the Directors believe that the Company has complied with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for the period under review.
The contents of this report are intended to address the subjects required under the Code, as well as providing a description of the Companys governance environment in general terms.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is an investment trust managed by its Board of Directors the Board currently comprising ten Directors, three of whom are executive Directors including the Chairman, one of whom is a non-independent non-executive Director and the remaining six are independent non-executive Directors as determined by the Board.
The full membership of the Board and the biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys website www.
This is designed to prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in managing the Companys business within a framework of prudent and effective controls to facilitate assessment and management of risk.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to these ends, delegating as appropriate to the Companys executive management.
In general terms, the executive management of the Company is responsible for the implementation and execution of the Boards strategic directives relating to investment management, the Companys governance and administration.
The Board met formally on four occasions in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Lord Rothschild, Mr Bailey, Mr Budge, Mr Breuer-Weil, Mr Cornish, Mr Marks and Mr Rothschild attended each meeting: Ms Robertson and Mr Leigh-Pemberton attended three meetings.
Mr Elkann and Mr Wace attended two meetings.
The non-executive Directors participate in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
They also meet on one occasion each year without any executive directors present to consider the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation exercise and the performance of the Chairman.
In addition, following the division of the Remuneration & Conflicts Committee into a Remuneration Committee and a separate Conflicts Committee since the year-end there are now five permanent committees.
The composition of the committees is set out on page 25.
Each committee has its own Terms of Reference which may be viewed on the Companys website.
The permanent committees are as follows: The Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Company.
It is chaired by John Cornish, a former partner at Deloitte LLP, who is also the chairman of the audit committees of three other public companies, and whom the Board considers has appropriate financial experience.
The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements, to consider reports thereon from the external audit process and to review any issues arising with the Companys management.
It may meet on additional occasions should the need arise.
The Committee also monitors the adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting, which are discussed with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also considers the external auditors independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee monitors the level of non-audit services provided to the Company by the auditors, assessing their objectivity in providing such services and ensuring that the independence of the audit team from the Company is not compromised.
Non-audit services provided by  LLP in the year ended 31 March 2010 were primarily in relation to other assurance services and taxation services.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 32 The Committee also meets on a separate and dedicated basis to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls at least annually by reference to reports prepared and compiled by management.
The remaining matters in the Audit Committees Terms of Reference are considered as and when necessary.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might have any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit Committee, through its Chairman.
The current membership of the Committee is set out on page 25.
The Committee met formally on three occasions in the year ended 31 March 2010.
All three members of the Committee attended these meetings.
The Conflicts Committee The Conflicts Committee was created in April 2010 following the division of the Remuneration & Conflicts Committee.
The Conflicts Committee will meet at least once a year on a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and when required.
The Committees principal responsibilities will cover proposed co-investment related party transactions and the approvals of cost sharing arrangements with parties related to Lord Rothschild or any other director as described in Note 28.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and pre-approving any arrangements entered into between the Company and any of its Directors, or their connected interests, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are avoided or preapproved and managed appropriately.
The membership of the Conflicts Committee is set out on page 25.
The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises four Directors, three of whom are independent and nonexecutive and the third is Lord Rothschild, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least once a year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set out in its Terms of Reference, includes the leading of the process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and to review the suitability of those Directors who are retiring by rotation to stand for re-election.
The Committee also monitors the composition of the Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession planning and the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The Committee met formally on one occasion in the year ended 31 March 2010.
All four members of the Committee attended this meeting.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee which was created in April 2010 following the division of the Remuneration and Conflicts Committee comprises four non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee will meet at least once each year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as may be required.
Its primary responsibilities include the creation and maintenance of remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and motivate directors appropriately for a self-managed investment trust.
This includes the review of the total remuneration packages of the executive Directors, ensuring an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by reference to other companies of similar size and business objectives.
The Remuneration Committee seeks the advice of remuneration consultants as and when appropriate.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference to the roles and time commitment of each individual concerned, although the final determination of the fees payable to non-executive directors is a matter for the Board of Directors as a whole.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee to determine the policy for the pension arrangements of the executive Directors.
Note: The Remuneration and Conflicts Committee met formally on two occasions in the year ended 31 March 2010.
Mr Bailey, Mr Cornish and Mr Leigh-Pemberton attended both meetings.
Mr Marks who was appointed to the Committee on 21 December 2009 attended the one meeting that he was entitled to attend.
33 The Valuation Committee The Valuation Committee comprises four Directors, three of whom are non-executive and one is an executive Director.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys unlisted investments so that they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at a fair valuation.
The full membership of the Committee is set out on page 25.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in relation to the year ended 31 March 2010.
All four members of the Committee attended these meetings.
CHAIRMAN WITH EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the Code, which are concerned with the potential problems of combining the running of the Board with the executive responsibility for the running of the Company.
The Board believes that the current arrangements are appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has in place a structure of permanent board committees, described above, which are designed to devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The Audit Committee, the Conflicts Committee and the Remuneration Committee are comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild and a member of the Valuation Committee is an executive Director, independent non-executive Directors represent a majority of their number in both cases.
The Board is therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power caused by the Chairman having executive responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both roles.
As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision.
This includes ensuring that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective contribution of the non-executive Directors.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE As described above, the Board is comprised of ten Directors of whom three are executive, one is nonexecutive but not independent and six are non-executive and determined by the Board as independent.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, to dominate the Boards decision-making.
More than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The size and composition of the Board is considered to be suitable for the Companys size and business, whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
Of the six non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent, one does not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code, in that he has served on the Board more than nine years since the date of his first election.
Mr Bailey, the Senior Independent Director and the long serving Director concerned, has brought relevant experience and knowledge to the Board without which its effectiveness would be reduced.
The Board believes that an in-depth knowledge of the Companys business derived from long service is an advantage, particularly in the circumstances of a self-managed investment trust.
Mr Bailey has indicated his desire not to stand for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Nominations Committee is responsible for the process of appointment of new directors to the Board.
The Board, through the Nominations Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an ongoing basis, the appointment of new Directors to bring fresh impetus and objectivity.
Such appointments will be made on merit and ability to devote such time as is necessary to the position, as described in each Directors letter of appointment.
The Committee will also be mindful of succession planning and board balance when recommending future appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search consultancies RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 34 have been used for non-executive Director appointments in the past, as the Board and Nominations Committee identify and assess candidates on the basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
Non-executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms.
Since periodic re-election requirements are in place, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that such contractual limitations would be in the best interests of the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
Appropriate training on listed company governance and on the Company is provided to new Directors on their first appointment.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information through the Company Secretary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
This is effected through regular oral and written communication, including detailed papers provided for each of the Companys scheduled board meetings.
Such communication is intended to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their respective roles on the Board or its committees.
The Directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and services.
The Chairman, the Nominations Committee and the Company Secretary have formulated a full, formal and tailored induction process for new directors on their joining the Board.
All Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, including legal advice, at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on corporate governance matters.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Code requires the Company to report on the means by which performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
The Board has determined that the completion of a questionnaire by each of the Directors covering the processes, efficiency and composition of each of the Board, its committees and the Directors, followed by discussion of the summarised responses is the most appropriate for the Companys circumstances.
This exercise was conducted between February and March 2010, when the responses were evaluated and considered by the Board and separately by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without any executive Directors being present.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company has complied with the Code requirements for each Director to stand for re-election at least once every three years and that any non-executive Director serving more than nine years since first elected should stand for re-election annually.
The names of Directors retiring by rotation and standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting are as set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 95, and the summary of AGM business is contained in the Explanatory Notes on page 100.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board described above, it is confirmed that the performance of each Director, including those standing for re-election, continues to be satisfactory and that each continues to demonstrate commitment in the role.
The re-election of those Directors standing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is therefore recommended by the Board.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board and executive management maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the chairmen of the Audit Committee, the Conflicts Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Valuation Committee will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.
35 Apart from when the Company is in a close period, its net asset value is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
co. uk where shareholders have access to the latest monthly financial data released by the Company, together with historical information and financial statements.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Statement of the Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of RIT Capital Partners plc and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 24 and 25 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control although it has delegated the supervision of the system to the Audit Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the systems of internal control within an established framework applicable throughout the Group.
The system of internal control is reviewed annually.
The Board considers that the necessary procedures have been implemented to satisfy the RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 36 requirements of the Financial Services Authority with respect to the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and revised in 2005.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the need to establish a separate internal audit function annually.
The Audit Committee reviewed the role of the Companys Compliance Officer with specific regard to the monitoring and evaluation of the Companys internal controls.
This role amounts to a proportion of an internal audit function.
The precise scope and depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, as appropriate, expanded.
Clear and direct reporting lines between the Compliance Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director have been established to maximise the independence of the Compliance Officer from executive management.
The Compliance Officer also monitors the compliance of external managers with the terms of their investment management agreements as well as reviewing their internal control procedures.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period and up to the date of this report through the monitoring processes set out below.
During the course of its review of the system of internal controls, the Audit Committee has not identified or been appraised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Control Environment The Group has established an organisational structure which allocates defined levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group to a small number of senior executives who meet regularly to discuss matters of importance to the Group.
Risk Management The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board in conjunction with the relevant executives.
The mitigation and monitoring of risks identified is undertaken by the Board or the executive management as appropriate.
Timetables are agreed for implementing any required improvements to systems and progress against these timetables is monitored.
Detailed portfolio valuations are undertaken every week and these form the basis for risk control decisions regarding equity exposure, liquidity, market price risk and exchange rate risk.
Further information relating to risk management is contained in Note 26 to the financial statements.
The system of internal control and risk management is embedded into the operations of the Company, and the action taken to mitigate any weaknesses is carefully monitored.
Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE Responsibility The Board is responsible for investment strategy and related questions of SEE policy.
It has delegated the supervision of SEE related matters to the Audit Committee, and day-to-day responsibility resides with executive management.
As an investment trust, the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE impact is low.
However, SEE risk is considered on a case-by-case basis where management believes that investments made internally, as opposed to those made by external managers, would create an SEE risk exposure.
Potential SEE risk is also considered in the selection of external investment managers.
Financial Reporting and Control Procedures There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the executive management.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and reviewed regularly by the executive management.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
STATEMENT ON GOING CONCERN The Directors have assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern with reference to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The Company and the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7.
Further details of the financial position of the Company and the Group can be found in the Investment Review on pages 8 to 23.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes details of the Companys objectives, policies 37 and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As at the year-end the Group had cash at bank of 115.3m and, after including money market funds, current bank loans and overdrafts, a net figure for cash and cash equivalents of 27.4m.
In addition to these liquidity balances the Group held government securities and quoted equities meeting the IFRS 7 definition of level 1 assets of 905.2m.
These are defined as investments that are valued based on quoted prices in active markets, and consequently they are considered by the Directors to be readily convertible to cash.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
