Governance Internal control Internal control over financial reporting The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanescontrol that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance financial reporting as of 31 December 2010. with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is reporting as of 31 December 2010 based on the criteria set forth by the designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Internal Control - Integrated Framework.
assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and December 2010, the Group's internal control over financial reporting is management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated effective.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 and to 23 February 2011, the date the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This is The Group's auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Group's confirmed by a process which requires senior members of the executive internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified and management to certify that they have assessed the adequacy and opinion.
effectiveness of their internal control framework and the compliance of their business with Group policies and associated standards in Management's report on the Group's internal control over financial accordance with the Group Policy Framework, and they meet the reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F.
The policies that govern these processes, Disclosure controls and procedures and reports on internal controls arising from them, are regularly reviewed As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the company's by the Board and meet the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Exchange Act have been evaluated.
The evaluation concluded that the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Enhancements have been company's disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and made to the Risk Management framework throughout 2010 and further effective and designed to ensure that material information relating to the improvements will be made in 2011. company and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those entities.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board, the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Changes in internal control Committee.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in There was no change in the company's internal control over financial each of the Groups businesses receive regular reports on significant reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
In addition, materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the the Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Details of the company's internal control over financial reporting.
Groups approach to risk management are given in the Risk and balance sheet management section, on pages 119 to 125 of the Business review.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group framework of controls.
The Groups independent auditors present to the Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and Regulatory developments and reviews sections on pages 397 to 399.
