Corporate governance continued Board balance and independence Performance evaluation The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and Following the external Board evaluation carried out in 2009, a number of eight independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the overall performance Independent Director.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and and effectiveness of the Board, including greater advance planning in is considered to be of an appropriate size.
The directors provide the relation to Board agendas to allow more in-depth discussion of Group with the knowledge, mix of skills and experience required.
The businesses and enhancement of Board engagement in risk management Board Committees comprise directors with a variety of relevant skills and and setting risk appetite.
experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
A formal and rigorous internal evaluation of the performance of the Board The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial and Nominations Committee during 2010 was carried out by the Group experience with independent and objective judgement.
A detailed framework of questions was used to structure between non-executive and executive directors enables the Board to individual meetings held by the Group Secretary with each director and provide clear and effective leadership and maintain the highest standards regular meeting attendees.
The Group Secretary then discussed the of integrity across the Groups business activities.
outcomes and recommendations with the Chairman.
Amongst the areas reviewed were the role and organisation of the Board and Board The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment Committees, Board and Committee composition, Board processes, the and all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of the structure and frequency of meetings, Board performance and reporting, Code.
The standard terms and conditions of the appointment of nonstrategy and risk management and external relationships, including those executive directors are available on the Groups website www.
com with shareholders and regulators.
and copies are available on request.
The Board has considered and discussed reports on the outcomes of the Re-election of directors evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation was In accordance with the provisions of the new Code, all directors of the conducted.
The evaluation concluded that the Board is strong and company will stand for re-election by shareholders at the companys 2011 operating effectively, headed by an excellent Chairman, who facilitates Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter.
Colin Buchan will stand good, constructive debate.
Generally, the Board is viewed as currently down as a non-executive director on 5 August 2011 following the being of the appropriate size and has a good dynamic, although Board announcement of the Groups interim results, having served just over composition should be kept under continual review to ensure that the nine years on the Board.
correct balance of skills and experience is maintained, particularly on Board Committees.
On the structure of Board meeting agendas it was The names and biographical details of directors are shown on pages 226 suggested that greater time could be allocated for discussions on key and 227.
Further information in relation to the companys Annual General issues to allow in-depth focus on items which are material to the Group Meeting can be found in the Chairmans letter to shareholders.
and to encourage an emphasis on debate and discussion rather than formal presentation.
Information, induction and professional development All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant Separate in-depth evaluations were carried out for each of the Audit matters, and have access to the advice and services of the Group Committee, Board Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee by the Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Group Secretary, where appropriate in conjunction with the Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Chair.
Further information on the evaluations carried out in relation to the complied with.
In addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee is independent professional advice at the companys expense.
set out on pages 243, 245 and 249 respectively.
In line with recommendations of the Walker Review and the new Code, Additionally, directors were asked to provide feedback on their fellow the company has reviewed the induction programme for new directors.
This feedback was shared with each director by the Chairman, Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the Board, who met with each director individually to discuss their own performance including visits to the Groups major businesses and meetings with and ongoing professional development.
directors and senior management and key stakeholders.
The induction is tailored to the directors specific requirements.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director canvassed the views of the executive directors and met with the non-executive directors as a group, The company has undertaken a comprehensive review of the ongoing without the Chairman present, to consider the Chairmans performance.
professional development programme for directors.
Directors are advised Feedback was sought on governance and stewardship of the Group, of appropriate training and professional development opportunities and relationships with key external and internal stakeholders, execution of the undertake the training and professional development they consider Groups Strategic Plan and delivery of value and return to shareholders.
necessary in assisting them to carry out their duties as a director.
The Senior Independent Director also canvassed views from United Kingdom Financial Investments Limited UKFI and the FSA.
The results of this were then shared with the Chairman who agreed to consider the points raised and provide separate responses in due course.
