Governance Board Committees Nominations Committee In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has All non-executive directors are members of the Nominations Committee established a number of Board Committees with particular responsibilities.
which is chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
The Group Chief The Committee chairmanship and membership are reviewed on a regular Executive is invited to attend meetings.
The names and biographies of all Board Committee members are holds at least two scheduled meetings per year, and also meets on an ad set out on pages 226 and 227. hoc basis as required.
The terms of reference of the undernoted committees are available on The Nominations Committee is responsible for: the Groups website www.
com and copies are available on request.
x assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of Audit Committee directors having regard to the overall balance of skills, knowledge, The Audit Committee is comprised of at least three independent nonexperience and diversity on the Board: executive directors.
The Audit Committee held seven scheduled meetings in 2010. x reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes: The Audit Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities in relation to the disclosure of the financial affairs of the x reviewing membership and Chairmanship of Group Board Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the accounting policies, financial Committees: and reporting and regulatory compliance practices of the Group, the Groups system and standards of internal controls, monitors the Groups x considering succession planning for the Chairman, Group Chief processes for internal audit and external audit and reviews the practices Executive and non-executive directors, taking into account the skills of the Divisional Risk and Audit Committees.
The Audit Committee report and expertise which will be needed on the Board in the future.
No is set out on pages 240 to 243. director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession.
Board Risk Committee The Nominations Committee engages with external consultants, The Board Risk Committee is comprised of at least three independent considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new non-executive directors.
The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled directors to the Board.
meetings and three additional meetings in 2010.
Group Sustainability Committee The Board Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and The Group Sustainability Committee GSC was established in 2009 and advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The GSC is responsible risk exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, including for reviewing the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and determination of risk appetite and tolerance.
The Board Risk Committee policies and aligning the Groups approach to social, environmental and report is set out on pages 244 and 245. ethical issues.
All key business areas are represented on the GSC and it is attended by the Group Chairman.
For more information on the Remuneration Committee governance framework which supports the GSC see page 44.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of at least three independent non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee held nine Further details of the Groups sustainability policies are available on scheduled meetings and six additional meetings in 2010. www.
com sustainability and in the Annual Sustainability Report.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the overview of the Groups remuneration policy and remuneration governance framework, ensuring that remuneration arrangements are consistent with and promote effective risk management.
The committee also makes recommendations to the Board on the remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
The Remuneration Report, including a letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, is set out on pages 246 to 263.
