DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have not met without the governance as it believes that a solid corporate governance framework Executive Directors being present.
The Board have agreed that at least leads to achievement of the Companys objectives and delivery of long one such meeting will take place in 2011. term value to shareholders.
Further explanation of how the main Principles in the Combined Code This Report is structured in line with the headings in the 2008 have been applied is set out below and in the Remuneration Report.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code of Directors: Accountability and Audit: and Relations Corporate governance framework with Shareholders.
Remuneration is covered in the separate RSAs governance structure aims to enable effective and efficient decision Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 69. making with clear responsibilities and describes how the Company is directed and managed.
As an insurer the Group is also preparing for the Combined Code compliance implementation of Solvency II in 2013 which will change the regulatory The UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2010 applies to the capital adequacy regime and governance within regulated insurance Company in 2011 and RSA will report on the status of its compliance companies in EU countries.
The Board has a schedule of matters with that Code in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
reserved to it and each Board Committee has written terms of reference.
Role statements, policies, systems, procedures and controls are also in place Throughout 2010 the Company has complied with the Principles and further details can be found under Accountability on page 46. and Provisions in section one of the Combined Code available from www.
uk with the exception that: DIRECTORS The Company did not have a Senior Independent Director during The Board the year.
The Board reviews the need for this appointment annually The Combined Code states that the Boards role is to provide and believes that it is now appropriate for the Company to have a entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of Senior Independent Director.
Edward Lea was therefore appointed prudent and effective controls.
Matters reserved to the Board include: to this position on 27 January 2011 The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment did not specify Strategy and management of the Company the length of the term for which each Director was appointed.
This has Changes to the structure and capital of the Company now been addressed Financial reporting and controls Purpose of the Board and its Committees Board Responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Company in a manner that is most likely to promote its success for the benefit of its members as a whole.
Group Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Risk Investment Assists the Board Determines the terms and Manages the process Advises the Board on Assists the Board in in discharging its conditions of employment, to advise and make risk management issues, setting investment responsibilities for remuneration and benefits recommendations to recommending the strategy and monitors the integrity of the of the Executive Directors the Board on matters Group framework execution of that strategy.
financial statements, and the Chairman of the relating to the Boards of risk limits and risk for the effectiveness Board and advises the membership and appetite and oversees of the systems of Board on the Groups related appointments.
the risk management internal control and remuneration policy in arrangements of the regulatory and financial relation to senior executives.
Company and the Group risk management and generally.
Ensures that for monitoring the Oversees the operation material risks are effectiveness and of the Companys share identified and mitigated.
objectivity of the internal based long term incentive and external auditors.
schemes including approving the value and timing of awards and the operation of performance conditions.
The terms of reference for each Committee of the Board explaining their role and the authority delegated to them are available on the Companys website www.
com rsa pages ir governance mgtcommittees.
The matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed regularly.
42 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls The Board monitors achievement of the Companys objectives through Approving significant expenditure and material transactions monthly Board reports which include updates from the Group Chief and contracts Executive Group CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO, Group Risk and Communicating with shareholders other functions together with regular functional presentations including Appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary Strategy, Marketing and Customer: IT and Operations: Investments: Determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, Corporate Responsibility: and Human Resources.
The Board has a rolling the Chairman, Company Secretary and senior executives agenda of items that regularly need to be considered by the Board and Corporate governance it is continually updated to include any topical matters that arise.
The Board held 10 scheduled meetings during the year and six single Each year the Board holds an in depth meeting to set the objectives purpose meetings which were unscheduled and called at short notice.
for the year in line with the current Group strategy.
The Board monitors Not all Directors were available to attend all of these meetings and their progress towards these objectives throughout the year at its regular views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meetings.
The diagram below illustrates the type of matters discussed discussions were held and advice sought as required prior to decisions by the Board during 2010. being made.
In addition eight Board Committee meetings were held during the year to finalise matters discussed by the Board such as final approval of financial statements and large operational contracts.
Summary of Board activities during the year People Corporate governance Received the results of the annual Global Engagement Recommended adoption of new Articles of Association Survey which indicated improved employee engagement Articles to shareholders to implement the Shareholder across the Group up 0.22 to 4.21 out of a maximum Rights Directive and Companies Act 2006 score of five Responded to consultations on the Combined Reviewed progress of the roll out of the Global Code and the Walker Report Capability Framework which helps employees identify Carried out the annual review of the Groups learning requirements for their current and future roles governance framework Received regular updates on HR strategy and Continued to work towards implementation activities including the Executive Development of Solvency II in 2013 Programme, the Marketing, Sales and Technical Carried out an externally facilitated Board evaluation Academies, and Fast Track and Graduate Schemes.
Approved roll out of a global guide to business conduct Set the Companys Community and Charitable Policy and received reports on the Groups corporate Communication responsibility activities.
Received regular reports from Investor Relations on institutional shareholders views All Directors were available to talk with shareholders at the AGM in May Appointments Celebrated 300th anniversary with a charity drive Appointed a new Group General Counsel culminating in RSA Day on 25 June.
RSA Day will & Group Company Secretary Company Secretary become an annual event.
Strategy and management Full day dedicated to strategy and M&A and contracts regular updates during the year Considered mergers Financial reporting Approved the 2010 Operational Plan and acquisitions activity and controls Monitored claims and reinsurance in excess of 50m Approved the 2009 full year matters following the Chile earthquake Approved acquisition results, Annual Report and UK Transformation Programme of GCAN in Canada other financial results continued to deliver expense savings.
Approved affinity deal in UK Commissioned external review to provide Tesco pet insurance of the effectiveness of the Group Approved acquisition of Internal Audit function.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 43 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Group Audit Remuneration Board Risk Investment Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year 16 58421 George Culmer 16 3 2 Noel Harwerth 15 5 4 2 Andy Haste 16 3 2 Edward Lea 16 582 Simon Lee 14 Malcolm Le May 13 6 3 2 John Maxwell 14 4 8 11 John Napier 15 821 Johanna Waterous 16 5 2 Notes: Chairman of the Board or Board Committee.
Of these, six meetings were unscheduled and called at short notice to address matters requiring the Boards immediate attention.
Not all Directors were available to attend.
In addition to attendance as above, by invitation Andy Haste and George Culmer regularly attend meetings of the Group Audit Committee.
By invitation Andy Haste regularly attends meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Directors The Group CEO is responsible for the executive management of the The names of the Directors together with biographical details are set out Company including: on pages 38 and 39 and are incorporated into this Report by reference.
Details of the Directors service contracts and terms of appointment, Recommending strategy and objectives to the Board and ensuring together with their interests in the Companys shares are shown in the implementation in line with agreed business plans and budgets Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 69 and are incorporated into this Assessing risk issues, making recommendations in relation to risk report by reference.
appetite to the Board and report on risk exposure on a regular basis Ensuring adequate standards of financial management and control Chairman and Group Chief Executive are in place and that the Company complies with relevant legal The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, with and regulatory requirements responsibilities clearly divided between them and set out in role statements.
Developing management succession plans and making recommendations for change as appropriate to the Board The Chairman is currently Chairman of Aegis Group plc and was interim Representing the Company within the industry and with the business Chief Executive of that company until 1 May 2010.
The Board is satisfied community, the City, UK Government, shareholders, potential that the Chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the investors and the public performance of his role as Chairman as demonstrated by his availability Liaising with the Chairman and keeping him informed on all for a number of unscheduled Board and Board Committee meetings material matters.
Board balance and independence The Chairmans responsibilities include: More than 50% of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes that the Ensuring the Board operates effectively including that it receives size of the Board is appropriate and that no individual or small group accurate, timely and clear information of Directors can dominate the Board.
Directors have access to the Leading the Board in reviewing the recommended strategic operating services and advice of the Company Secretary and in addition may plans and budgets take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company Ensuring that appropriate and related objectives are established for in the furtherance of their duties.
All Non-Executive Directors the Group CEO including the Chairman are subject to a three year rolling period Facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors of appointment in accordance with the Articles.
Edward Lea, John Maintaining effective communication with shareholders Maxwell, Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May were all first elected Ensuring effective liaison with the Group CEO and continuity at the 2004 AGM and are currently serving their third three year of communication on developments occurring between formal term.
The Board considers that each of them remains independent.
44 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Appointments to the Board to make informal visits to different parts of the Group and to meet with The Board considers the leadership needs and succession planning of local management.
These visits deepen the Non-Executive Directors the Board when making decisions on new appointments and ensures understanding of the business and provide them with additional that succession planning processes and plans are in place with regard comfort that they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to senior appointments both below and at Board level.
as Directors to fulfil their statutory duties to the Company and their responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the ensuring that the external auditor is aware of all relevant information.
Board: the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: the skills During the year Noel Harwerth visited the Latin American regional and experience already represented: likely future retirements and those office to attend a regional Risk Committee meeting, attended a Codan appointments to the Board which would be desirable going forward.
Audit Committee meeting in Denmark and visited the office in China.
Johanna Waterous attended Audit Committee meetings in Canada and The Board appointed Edward Lea as the Companys Senior Independent Ireland and a Strategy, Marketing and Customer Conference.
Edward Lea Director on 27 January 2011.
With effect from 1 February 2011, Edward Lea presented at a Group Internal Audit Conference and is due to visit the and Johanna Waterous were appointed as members of the Nomination Canadian business in June 2011.
The Non-Executive Directors regularly Committee and Malcolm Le May retired from the Nomination Committee.
host informal meetings with senior executives outside of the Executive Team.
This gives participants the opportunity to meet and discuss The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint the business.
a person who is willing to be a Director either to fill a casual vacancy or as an additional Director.
A Director who is appointed by the Directors Performance evaluation shall retire at the following AGM and will put himself forward to be In 2010 the Board undertook an evaluation of the performance of the elected by the ordinary shareholders.
In accordance with the Articles Board and its Committees, externally facilitated by MWM Consulting, and the Combined Code, the Directors submit themselves for to assess how well the Board, Committees and the Directors were reappointment at the first AGM after their appointment and for performing.
The review included a questionnaire and interviews reelection every three years thereafter.
Resolutions to reappoint with MWM Consulting followed by a Board meeting to discuss the Directors at the AGM are subject to the approval of the Board, taking issues raised.
The discussion concluded that the Board is strong and into account the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
effective and that there is a good relationship between the Executive Each Director has stood for reelection within the last two years and and Non-Executive Directors with the Non-Executive Directors therefore under the Articles no Director is obliged to retire and stand providing significant challenge to the Executive Directors.
A number for reelection at the 2011 AGM.
However, John Napier, the Chairman: of recommendations were made and are being implemented.
Andy Haste, the Group CEO: and Edward Lea, the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director have offered themselves for reelection this year.
The Company may by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given remove any Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Information and professional development On appointment to the Board, Directors undertake an induction programme and receive a range of information about the Company appropriate to their existing knowledge and experience.
This includes background information on the Group and details of Board procedures, governance issues and Directors responsibilities and a series of meetings with members of the Board and executive management on the business and regulatory matters.
The monthly Board report includes an update from the Group CEO, CFO, financial results, a Solvency II update and functional updates which are discussed at Board meetings.
Development and training for the Directors is an ongoing process which includes briefings on legislative and regulatory changes and on corporate governance issues.
Directors also receive regular presentations about the Companys operations and there are regular discussions on strategy, customer marketing, employee engagement and environmental, social and governance matters.
Opportunities are also created for Non-Executive Directors Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 45 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Summary of main activities of Committees during the year Group Audit Reviewed all results announcements and the 2009 Annual Report and Accounts Committee Reviewed the Financial Control Framework quarterly Received regular reports from the CFO, Disclosure Committee, regional audit or management control committees, the external auditor, the Group Chief Auditor, and Regulatory Risk & Compliance Approved significant non audit services provided by the external auditor Requested an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the internal audit function Approved the 2011 Group Internal Audit Plan Approved the 2011 Regulatory Risk & Compliance Plan.
Nomination Assessed the performance of each Director due for reelection and recommended their reelection Committee at the 2010 AGM to the Board.
Board Risk Closely monitored Chile earthquake claims Committee Reviewed results of stress and scenario tests Considered emerging risks Cyclically reviewed and approved changes to Group policies Reviewed the quantum of the ICA and ECA capital models and made appropriate recommendations to the Board Reviewed risks facing the Group by risk type and region at each meeting Monitored progress on Solvency II compliance and reviewed RSAs Internal Model Regularly reviewed the governance structure and control framework Carried out a survey on the Committees effectiveness Reviewed the 2009 Remuneration Report to assess any implications of the Groups remuneration policies on risk and risk management Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and material risk profile Approved the annual Enterprise Risk Management Plan.
Investment Set the Groups investment strategy Committee Monitored the global economy and market conditions and the economic outlook during the year Reviewed activity in the Groups investment portfolio Monitored compliance with investment strategy and results.
Notes: See page 55 for details of the Remuneration Committees activities during the year.
ACCOUNTABILITY external auditor without any members of management being present.
The Chairman and other members of executive management are also Group Audit Committee GAC invited to attend from time to time.
The GAC is chaired by Edward Lea and its principal duties are: The outcomes of meetings are reported to the Board and the Board To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial receives the minutes of all the GAC meetings.
reporting, internal controls and financial and regulatory risk management systems The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and To coordinate and have oversight of the Companys financial information, as well as to employees of the Company and external reporting process professional advisers.
To monitor compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements of each territory in which the Group transacts business Regular reports are received and reviewed by the GAC from the To provide oversight of the internal audit function Disclosure Committee and regional audit or management control To provide oversight of the external audit firm or firms committees and in relation to the Financial Control Framework and To provide coordination and oversight of the integrity Enterprise Risk Management.
of the financial reporting process.
Whistle blowing The Committee is comprised of Non-Executive Directors, all of The Companys policy on whistle blowing provides a mechanism for whom have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Deputy employees to raise serious concerns in good faith, where they either Group Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the GAC.
The do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management Group CEO, CFO, Company Secretary, Group Chief Auditor, Group or are not satisfied with the local management response.
The GAC Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance and representatives annually reviews the policy and is satisfied that it meets the criteria of the external auditor are regular attendees by invitation and the set out in the Combined Code.
GAC holds regular meetings with the Group Chief Auditor and the 46 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GAC effectiveness audit work over 250,000 will be notified by the CFO to the GAC In addition to the Board and Committee performance evaluation Chairman.
With reference to the protocol, the GAC is satisfied that described on page 45, the GAC Chairman requested that there are no matters that would compromise the independence of  PwC give their view on the quality the external auditor or affect the performance of its statutory duties.
of the interaction between the GAC and the regional audit or Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP during 2010 for audit and non audit management control committees at the same time as their review work are disclosed in the auditor remuneration table in note 4 on page of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys of both the GAC and the regional audit or management control choice of external auditor.
committees was that they interacted well and that the regional audit or management control committees valued the attendance The GAC has reviewed the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of GAC members at their meetings and are sufficiently challenging.
of the external auditor in 2010 and concluded that Deloitte LLP provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
Accordingly the GAC The GAC is satisfied that, during 2010, it has received sufficient, recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2011 AGM reliable and timely information from management to enable it to for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and the Board fulfil its responsibilities.
Regulatory compliance So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The Board is responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK insurance regulatory Companys external auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all obligations.
The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself responsibilities and is committed to dealing with the regulator in aware of, and to establish that the external auditor is aware of, any an open, cooperative and transparent manner.
The FSA carries out relevant audit information.
regular reviews under its risk based regulation operational framework ARROW.
All actions arising from the 2009 ARROW Risk Review Deloitte LLP has confirmed its willingness to continue in office as external due to be closed at the date of this report were closed to the auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2011. satisfaction of the FSA by the due date.
Ongoing queries continue A resolution for its reappointment will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
to be reviewed and appropriate actions agreed with the FSA.
The next ARROW Risk Review and review of RSAs Individual Group Internal Audit GIA Capital Assessment will be carried out by the FSA in 2011.
GIAs activities and effectiveness are monitored and reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC is responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information During 2010 the FSA conducted private meetings with several and resource is given to the Group Chief Auditor and for approving the members of the Board and executive management as a part of their appointment to, and removal of the holder from, that position.
The Group also engaged closely with the FSA regarding development of the Groups Solvency II Internal GIA reports to management on the effectiveness of the Companys Model application.
More information on the Groups approach to systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to Solvency II can be found in the financial review on page 27 and manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
under the Board Risk Committee on page 48.
The GAC reviews and approves the annual Group Internal Audit Plan following presentations from the regional CEOs and regional auditors.
In addition, the Group includes a number of regulated entities which rely In December 2010 the GAC approved a revised GIA mandate and on various licences to carry out their business.
Accordingly, maintaining three year strategy.
effective relationships with the Groups regulators across the world is integral to the success of the Groups strategy and its long term value.
An independent assessment of the internal audit functions effectiveness was carried out during the year by PwC and the report was discussed External auditor at a GAC meeting.
The report concluded that the GIA was generally Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor in 2007. conforming the highest rating with the standards of the Institute of During the year Deloitte LLP was engaged as an adviser on a number of Internal Auditors.
Overall the function was in the upper quartile of occasions.
In order to maintain their independence, such appointments internal audit functions within financial services companies.
The report are only made in accordance with a protocol developed and embedded had also concluded that there was a good relationship between the by the GAC.
This provides that the external auditor should not carry GAC and the regional audit or management control committees.
out work where the output or recommendations are then subject to its review as external auditor.
Work may be given to the external auditor Following the review an updated strategic plan for the function was where it is closely allied with the audit function or it is advantageous developed and presented to the GAC.
The plan aims to further link to the Group to use its external auditor in view of its knowledge and the functions objectives with the Groups objectives, ensure sufficient experience of RSA.
This could include accounting advice, regulatory coverage of key and emerging risks, and support the Groups talent returns, tax advice or due diligence work.
All non audit work over management programme.
A recruitment campaign was launched 100,000 must be approved in advance by the CFO and all non internally and externally to ensure that the function has sufficient Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 47 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED resource to take on new work.
Secondments and rotations will be To recommend the quantum of capital required for the Individual formalised to enhance knowledge sharing and from 1 January 2011 Capital Assessment ICA and Economic Capital Assessment ECA the centres of excellence within the team were further formalised to the Board and strengthened.
To monitor the Groups implementation of Solvency II To ensure that material risks have been identified and Internal control mitigated appropriately The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control To approve new and amended Group policies systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and To approve the remit of the Group Risk team maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility To review the Remuneration Report for any implications of the of the Executive Directors and senior management.
Groups remuneration policies for risk and risk management.
The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly The Committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors, the by the GAC and the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the Group CEO and CFO.
The Group Operations and Risk Director, Group Groups systems of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups Risk Director, Company Secretary, Group Director of Corporate Finance, assets and shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, Group Underwriting & Claims Director, Group Head of Regulatory Risk financial controls, the risk management framework and the process & Compliance and Regional Risk Directors are all regular attendees.
to deliver regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems Other senior management with experience that is relevant to specific are designed to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the agenda items are invited to attend from time to time.
potential risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The BRC has a standing agenda to ensure that all items within its terms financial misstatement or loss.
In February 2011 the GAC and the of reference are covered by the Committee and this is regularly reviewed Board reviewed the systems of internal control in operation during 2010 to ensure it reflects the requirements of the Group, meets current best and concluded that the controls were effective throughout the year.
practice and industry guidance and includes items of topical relevance.
This may include greater focus on specific risk disciplines or individual The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Chief insurance portfolios as considered appropriate through pre meeting Auditor and her team on the integrity of the control environment and discussions between the BRC Chairman and the Group Risk Director.
also receives reports from the external auditor based upon its audit work.
The GAC also receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups The minutes of the regional Risk Committees established in the UK, arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance from the Group Head Emerging Markets and International regions are provided to the BRC of Regulatory Risk & Compliance.
The Board, through the Board Risk and the Regional Risk Directors regularly present to the BRC.
In 2010 Committee, considers reports from risk specialists across the Group Noel Harwerth attended a Risk Committee in the Latin America regional and reviews Group level risk management information.
office and a Codan Audit Committee meeting to enhance her knowledge of local risk issues.
A self certification process is completed by business managers across the Group quarterly to confirm the adequacy of controls and their compliance During the year the BRC has received regular updates from the Solvency II with Company policies, local laws, rules and regulations.
Steering Committee on the Groups preparation for the implementation of Solvency II and its impact on the business.
Solvency II is a fundamental The Board considers that the current reporting framework delivers overhaul of the regulatory capital adequacy regime for insurers and sufficient information to monitor the systems of internal control and reinsurers within the EU which is expected to be implemented from to review their effectiveness as required by the Combined Code.
The BRC discussed the Companys submission to enter The Board therefore considers that an ongoing process for identifying, the FSAs pre application internal model approval process and participated evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has in the European wide Quantitative Impact Study Five QIS5, which was a been in place during 2010 and up to the date of approval of the Annual test of the proposed solvency and valuation rules.
Solvency II also requires Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board regulated insurers and reinsurers to have an effective system of governance and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Combined Code.
in place which provides for sound and prudent management of the business.
This includes ensuring that board members possess sufficient Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group relevant professional qualifications, knowledge and experience to ensure include internal audit, the corporate governance framework, dialogue that collectively they provide sound and prudent management.
There is an with institutional shareholders, constructive use of the AGM and the ongoing process to document the governance policy and processes within areas described in this Accountability section.
each Group company to ensure that a consistent and high standard of governance is maintained throughout the Group which includes ensuring Board Risk Committee BRC that subsidiary Directors have suitable knowledge, skills and experience.
The BRC is chaired by Noel Harwerth and its principal duties are: The BRC oversees and challenges the results of stress and scenario tests To recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk carried out by the Group Risk team.
These tests are carried out each appetite to the Board year with the involvement of senior executives to assess the Groups 48 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE resilience in relation to extreme but plausible events that could have a In addition to his reports to the Investment Committee, the Group material impact on the Group.
The aim is to enable management to Investments Director presented to the Investment Committee on understand the dynamics of the Groups risk profile, identify potential investment strategy and performance in December 2010. mitigation strategies for such events and act as a validation tool for both the Groups ICA process and its risk appetite.
Financial Control Framework The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent approach These tests involve exploring a range of scenarios which could adversely to finance related controls across the Group that is fit for purpose for impact the Groups assets, liabilities and or operational performance.
all regions, embedding a control culture that will strengthen the Groups In particular, the impact of a severe and prolonged economic downturn finance environment by ensuring that the Groups financial processes are and the impact of a major pandemic have been explored.
For both managed effectively in order to mitigate the associated risks.
This is done scenarios Group Risk quantified the size of potential impacts, speed of by documenting and testing the way that core elements of the business crystallisation and the impact of a single event across multiple risk types work, providing a high degree of transparency around the Groups including insurance, operational and financial.
The results have provided financial control environment.
The Group has people, procedures and insights as to the robustness of the Groups monitoring and contingency tools embedded in the business to maintain and streamline the control measures and has allowed for the identification of potential additional environment and to provide ongoing reporting and assurance.
Quarterly management actions that could be taken to protect RSAs customers, reports are presented to the GAC which include notification of any shareholders and continuing operations.
control deficiencies or breaches in the period and action taken.
In addition to monitoring risks that are already recognised as material Delegated authorities to the Group the BRC instructed Group Risk during the year to The Group operates a Delegated Authority Framework which specifies analyse emerging risks that could threaten RSAs position of competitive how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group CEO advantage or successful delivery of strategy to ensure that plans are put and on to other executives in the Group.
Senior executives across the in place where possible to mitigate new risks.
The emerging risks Group receive an executive licence setting out their specific limits of identified are viewed holistically and cover: authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting and other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar Legal and regulatory developments process of delegation is in place within his or her area of responsibility.
The macro-economic environment Changes in claims patterns.
Further detail on the overall risk framework is set out on pages 28 to 31.
A wide range of internal and external data was analysed to identify Going concern the appropriate risk areas, the potential impact to the Group and what In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the Board action is being taken or planned to address each risk.
External sources has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments for the next included the World Economic Forum, the CRO Forum and The Geneva 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included consideration of Association.
Work has also been carried out to identify longer term risks the Groups underwriting plans, strong regulatory capital surplus, diverse which may have an impact over the next 10 to 20 year time frame.
insurance risk profile, considerable undrawn financing facilities and highly A number of these risks are now being analysed in greater detail to liquid investment portfolio.
As a result of this review the Directors have enable appropriate and proportionate risk management plans to be satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare these financial prepared to mitigate the risks.
statements on a going concern basis.
The BRC is monitoring the Companys progress on ensuring that RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS appropriate policies and procedures are in place in order to comply with the requirements in the Bribery Act 2010 the Act which is expected to Dialogue with institutional shareholders come into force in 2011.
The Group has conducted a global assessment The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and of the nature and extent of the risks relating to bribery that it faces and communication with shareholders and welcomes the introduction is designing and implementing proportionate systems and controls in of the UK Stewardship Code in 2010.
A detailed training programme for all staff is being rolled principal institutional shareholders on a regular basis and Non-Executive out.
Further, the Groups Anti-Corruption Compliance Policy has been Directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders as updated to reflect the Act and additional guidance is being produced required.
Executive Directors held 79 meetings with investors during for staff on gifts and hospitality, which will supplement existing materials.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investor Relations team on the views of institutional shareholders.
Presentations and Investment Committee meetings are conducted in compliance with the Companys Inside The Investment Committee is chaired by Malcolm Le May and comprises Information Policy and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to all of the Non-Executive Directors, the Group CEO and the CFO.
ensure that inside information is not disclosed prior to it being made The Committee met twice during 2010.
The Committee assists the available to shareholders generally.
General shareholder information Board in setting the Groups investment strategy and monitors the is also available on the Groups website: execution of that strategy and the Groups investment performance.
com rsa pages ir shareholderservices Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 49 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Annual General Meeting a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company: a resolution The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, is proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, a redemption or purchase of shares : or in such other circumstances 23 May 2011 at 11.00am.
A letter from the Chairman and the notice as the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the preference convening the AGM Notice is available to all ordinary shareholders shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on and preference shareholders when applicable at least 20 working days all the business of the general meeting.
before the meeting and is available at www.
com rsa pages ir shareholderservices shareholdermeetings agm1 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION The Group CEO presents on the Companys performance and Employment policy activities during the year and the CFO presents the financial results The Groups employment policy reflects its belief that motivated of the Company prior to the formal business of the meeting.
and skilled employees are critical to the Groups success.
All Directors are requested to attend the AGM and the Chairman and the Chairmen of each Board Committee make themselves available The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for to take questions from ordinary shareholders at and after the AGM.
all employees including those with a disability.
This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing people solely on the Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantive issue, including grounds of ability to carry out the role and establishing and promoting a resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance a working environment which is free from discrimination.
In order to with provisions in the Articles any form of proxy sent by the Company do this the Group ensures that any reasonable adjustments are made, to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered where it is appropriate to do so, to provide equal opportunities to to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not all in respect of recruitment, terms and conditions of employment, less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting excluding promotions, transfers, grievances, redundancies and vocational training.
non business days or, in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at or The Group is committed wherever possible, to supporting the on the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time rehabilitation and return to work of employees who become disabled appointed for the taking of the poll.
during their career with RSA.
Information on the diversity of RSAs workforce can be found in the Corporate Responsibilty Report available At any general meeting every ordinary shareholder present shall have at www.
com rsair en employees one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll every ordinary shareholder diversityhumanrights present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of which he is the holder.
Each resolution was put to a poll at the AGM The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with in 2010.
The results of the vote on each resolution are announced recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and open to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, attend, partnership agreement which covers collective consultation and speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend payable on the bargaining on behalf of non management employees.
The Management preference shares is in arrears at the date of the Notice: a resolution Association TMA represents managerial employees under a separate is proposed that affects the rights of the preference shareholders: consultative agreement.
The European Consultative Forum ECF is Substantial share interests This table shows the holdings of major shareholders in the Company in accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule five as at 31 December 2010 and the date of this Report: At 31 December 2010 At 23 February 2011 No.
of % of ordinary voting Nature ordinary voting Nature shares rights of holding shares rights of holding Blackrock, Inc 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect Lloyds Banking Group plc 174,418,517 5.06 Direct & Indirect 174,418,517 5.06 Direct & Indirect Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.95 Direct & Indirect 170,851,201 4.95 Direct & Indirect Indirect as Indirect as Newton Investment Management Ltd 168,455,475 4.88 168,455,475 4.88 discretionary discretionar y investment manager investment manager Standard Life Investments 152,266,879 4.42 Direct & Indirect 152,266,879 4.42 Direct & Indirect Legal & General Group plc 136,295,990 3.99 Direct & Indirect 136,295,990 3.99 Direct & Indirect Notes: Of the holding disclosed 164,036,816 shares 4.76% are under the control of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
50 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE a cross European body created to enable information sharing and Each year we run a global employee survey using the Gallup Q12 consultation on transnational issues with the European workforce.
2010 has seen further improvements in the results with an increase of 0.22 to 4.21 out of a maximum score of five putting The Group continues to focus on the development of employees the Group at the 70th percentile in the Gallup database.
In particular, in order to ensure they can deliver high levels of performance.
RSA the response to the question The mission and purpose of my believes it can create real competitive advantage by building and company makes me feel that my job is important increased by 0.23. maintaining a high performance culture across the Group.
RSA encourages employee share ownership through all employee share In addition to the Executive Development Programme, Leadership plans.
Employees from 22 of the 34 countries in which RSA operates Development Programme and Fast Track Programme the Group are invited to participate in Sharesave SAYE and the overall take up has three Academies: Sales, Marketing and Technical and has recently by eligible employees is 47%.
Sharebuild has now been running for a full launched a Global Capability Framework.
year in the UK and 31% of eligible employees participate.
Further details on the Groups share schemes can be found in the Remuneration The Executive Development Programme is a challenging, world class Report on pages 54 to 69. development programme for RSAs top leaders which aims to build RSAs strategic leadership capability.
It is sponsored by the Executive RSA also encourages employees to participate in discount schemes Team who are actively involved in the Programme.
Participants work for employees and their families.
The Staff Saver Scheme in the in global teams on strategically important business challenges, UK currently has approximately 7,800 Staff Saver policies in force researching the issues and recommending a solution.
The Leadership Development Programme aims to develop business, Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and growth and people leadership skills in leaders with high potential to objectives of the Group.
Communications are regularly provided move into a country or regional senior leadership role.
It is a nine through face to face meetings and presentations, by email, intranet month programme consisting of three modules, designed to build articles and staff publications.
Key messages from the biannual Group capability in core areas of leadership.
This incorporates a strategic Leaders Conferences are disseminated to teams by local management.
project based on current business challenges.
The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in The Sales Academy was operational from 2010, creating a community supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in of RSA sales people, recognising success and creating pride in what the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 32 to 35. sales people deliver to the business.
There are currently two modules running: the sales skills module creates value through consultative selling Principal activity and has been rolled out in the UK business with over 180 sales staff The Company is the holding company of the RSA Insurance Group attending.
There is also a Sales Leadership module.
plc group of companies whose principal activity is the transaction of personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group Over 200 marketers from 12 countries have attended the two day operates in 34 countries and provides general insurance products foundation course in the Marketing Academy which was set up in and services in over 130 countries.
2009 to train and develop RSAs marketing staff and support RSAs ambition of building a best in class marketing function.
Business review and management report Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to The Technical Academy aims to continually enhance the technical present a business review in this Report.
The information that fulfils capability of RSAs Underwriting, Claims and Actuarial community by this requirement can be found on pages 4 to 35, and is incorporated providing training programmes, identifying talent, ensuring there are by reference into this Report.
structured career pathways for technical staff, developing global best practice and standards and supporting and recognising the attainment The Business Review has been prepared to the best of the Directors of technical skills and qualifications.
knowledge in order to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair review of the development and performance of the Company and the The Global Capability Framework has been established across the Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Group and enables identification of current and future critical gaps, uncertainties which may affect the Group.
It may not be relied upon for roles, capabilities and talent pipeline so the Group can focus its any other purpose.
Core and functional capabilities have been identified for all roles along with target levels for Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company each capability as appropriate for each role.
Employees can self assess and its subsidiaries and its financial risk management policies are their current capabilities against the targets set for their role or other disclosed in the Business Review, in the Significant Accounting Policies roles that they may be interested in across the Group and tailor their on pages 78 to 85, Risk Management on pages 89 to 98 and note 12 development plan accordingly.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 51 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
5 2 also requires the Annual redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary shareholders for the Report to include a management report.
The information that fulfils Company to purchase up to 344,454,710 of its own ordinary shares this requirement can be found in the Business Review on pages 4 to representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 18 March 2010 35 and the Directors Report on pages 42 to 53. remained in force at 31 December 2010.
Events after the reporting period The Company operates four employee benefit trusts to hold ordinary On 7 January 2011 the Group acquired Glenstone Capital Inc and its shares in RSA which are used to satisfy exercises under the Groups share subsidiary, GCAN Insurance Company, in Canada.
This transaction incentive schemes and Capita Trustees Limited is the current Trustee of makes RSA the fourth largest insurer in Canada.
Further details are each trust.
The Trustee may vote in respect of any shares held in the Trusts provided in note 30 on page 134. but has no obligation to do so and, in respect of the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard to the financial interests of Dividends the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the Companys shares.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.70p per ordinary share to be paid on 3 June 2011 to holders of ordinary shares on Supplier payment policy the register at the close of business on 4 March 2011, subject to It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in ordinary shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with dividend of 3.12p per ordinary share, will make a total dividend those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with for the year of 8.82p per ordinary share.
In most cases agreements for the supply of goods or services are made under standard terms of contract that lay down payment terms.
The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from In the UK these are available on request from UK Strategic Sourcing, 1 October 2010 to 31 March 2011 will be paid on 1 April 2011 to Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business on 4 March 2011.
The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on 31 December 2010 amounted to 3.3m corresponding to 19 days Environmental programme payment when averaged over the year.
Details of our environmental programme can be found on page 33 of the Business Review and on the Groups website Related party transactions at www.
com Related party transactions are set out in note 32 on pages 135 to 136.
Share capital Essential contracts Details of the Companys share capital, together with details of the The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are any contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the success shown in note 18 on page 115.
The Companies Act 2006 has abolished of the Group that is required to be disclosed pursuant to section 417 the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital of the Companies Act 2006. and the Articles adopted at the 2010 AGM reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can allot save in respect Charitable and political donations of employee share schemes.
The current authority allows Directors The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations to allot securities up to a nominal amount of 315,750,151 and renewal of 2.4m 2009: 2.8m during the year, of which 1.2m 2009: 1.5m of the Directors authority to allot shares will be sought at the 2011 related to donations made to UK based charities.
During 2010 the Directors exercised their authority to allot in Community and Charitable policy prohibits political donations.
respect of employee share schemes and the scrip dividend scheme.
Directors conflicts of interest The Company has two classes of shares: ordinary shares of 27.5p each Each Director is required to notify the Company Secretary when a and preference shares of 1 each.
Each ordinary share carries the right conflict of interest arises and the Board reviews Directors conflicts to one vote at general meetings of the Company and no right to fixed of interest annually.
Under the Articles, the Board may authorise any income.
The rights attaching to the preference shares are detailed in conflict of interest.
The conflicted Director shall not count towards the note 18 on pages 116 to 117.
As at 31 December 2010 the ordinary quorum or vote on any resolution to authorise the conflict of interest shares represent 96.5% and the preference shares represent 3.5% and, at the Boards discretion, may be excluded from any meeting at of the total issued share capital.
which the conflict is under consideration.
Where a conflict of interests is authorised, the Board may impose such restrictions on the conflicted There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the Director as they deem appropriate, such as excluding the Director from transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions receipt of information or discussions.
of the Articles and legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Companys shareholders that may result None of the Directors had any interest in any other contract with the in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2010 save that a number of The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any Directors have taken out personal lines insurance with the Group.
52 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board confirms that it has reviewed the schedule of Directors conflicts of interest during the year and that the procedure in place operated effectively in 2010.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Companys ordinary shareholders.
New Articles were adopted at the 2010 AGM and are available on the Groups website at www.
com rsa pages ir governance articles Borrowing powers The Directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company: and The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to certain adjustments.
Directors indemnity Article 140 of the Articles provides that, among other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its Directors against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the Directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide this indemnity to its Directors in order to ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre Directors through competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
The Directors and Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition the Company has indemnified the Directors of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying indemnity provision under section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors responsibility statement appears on page 72 and is incorporated by reference into this Report.
By order of the Board Derek Walsh Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary 23 February 2011 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 53
