51 Audit and Risk Committee report Following the financial crisis there has naturally been In this report we detail the role of the Audit and Risk increased focus on the oversight of risk and internal Committee, its membership and the matters under controls in financial institutions.
Governments, consideration during the year.
regulators and shareholders have all highlighted risk management as critical to companies in helping to Composition of the Committee ensure they are able to withstand such crises in future.
The Audit and Risk Committee comprises three The Walker Review of Corporate Governance in UK independent non-executive Directors: Banks and other Financial Industry Entities was issued Merlyn Lowther Chairman on 26 November 2009 and whilst its focus was on the Andrew Beeson large banks and insurance companies many of its Robin Buchanan findings and recommendations are relevant to Schroders.
Merlyn Lowther was appointed Chairman of theCommittee on 6 May 2010 in place of Andrew We see the Committee as playing afundamentalrole in Beesonwho became Chairman of the Remuneration the oversight of risk management and internal controls Committee and the Senior Independent Director on within Schroders.
We have, therefore, considered that date.
Robin Buchanan was appointed to the carefully how we should adapt our approach to Committee on 6 May 2010 replacing Luc Bertrand discharging our responsibilities in the light of Walker whojoined the Remuneration Committee on that date.
and the regulations and codes published as a consequence.
In this report we set out how we have Merlyn Lowther, former Chief Cashier of the Bank of responded, particularly with respect to risk England, is considered by the Board to have recent management, and how we have provided oversight and relevant financial experience.
ofthe Groups internal controls framework.
The increased emphasis on risk matters is reflected inthe name of the Committee, which is now called theAudit and Risk Committee.
Merlyn Lowther Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 9 March 2011 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 51 15 03 2011 12:43 52 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Responsibilities of the Committee The main role of the Committee remains to encourage The Board has delegated to the Committee and safeguard the highest standards of integrity, responsibility for overseeing the financial reporting financial reporting, risk management and internal andinternal control of the Group and for maintaining control.
In doing this the principal responsibilities anappropriate relationship with the Companys oftheCommittee include: auditors.
Following the publication of the UK Corporate Reviewing the form and content and monitoring the Governance Code, the recommendations of the integrity of the Companys and the Groups financial Walker Report and other developments with respect to statements and the significant financial reporting risk and control matters, the Committee undertook a issues and judgements: detailed review of its responsibilities.
Additionally, the Board considered whether it would be appropriate Reviewing and monitoring the arrangements for forSchroders to establish a separate Board Risk ensuring the objectivity and effectiveness of the Committee, as required for major banks and life external and internal audit functions: companies under Walker.
Recommending to the Board the appointment, At the current time we do not consider a separate risk re-appointment or removal of the external auditors: committee to be necessary but the Audit Committee Developing and implementing policy on the provision was given enhanced risk responsibilities and it receives of non-audit services: regular reports from the Group Risk Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
Following Reviewing and monitoring the adequacy and discussions with the Chairman of the Committee, effectiveness of the Companys internal controls agendas for Committee meetings have been revised andrisk management systems: and toinclude a specific section on matters relating to risk: Reviewing and monitoring the Companys ethical and an additional Committee meeting in September standards and procedures for ensuring compliance each year has been scheduled thereby increasing the with regulatory and financial reporting requirements number of planned meetings per year from four to five.
and the Groups relationship with the relevant This aligns the Committee meetings with those of regulatory authorities.
theBoard and ensures that there is adequate time available to discuss all relevant matters.
The Following the review described above, to strengthen Committee has also been renamed the Audit and further the focus on, and improve the Committees RiskCommittee to reflect better the Committees oversight of, risk matters, the Committees terms of responsibilities for risk matters.
reference were amended to provide for direct access to the Committee Chairman for the Group Head of Riskand a requirement for the Committee to review theoutput of the internal controls report produced annually in respect of a number of Group subsidiaries known as the AAF Report.
The Committees terms of reference already required amember of the Committee to be a member of the Remuneration Committee to ensure there is clear communication between the two Committees on riskmatters.
The revised terms of reference were adopted by the Board on 23 September 2010 and are available on www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 52 15 03 2011 12:43 53 Report on the Committees activities in 2010 Principal issues considered during 2010 were: Meetings and attendance The annual financial statements for 2009 and interim The Committee met six times in 2010, comprising four results for 2010: scheduled meetings, an additional meeting to review the Groups ICAAP and a further additional meeting to The external and internal audit plans: discuss, in particular, the Groups Risk and Control Group Internal Audits quarterly reports on its functions.
There was full attendance at all meetings by activities and the control environment: members.
The scope and mandate of the control functions: Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended Risk, Internal Audit, Finance and Compliance: Merlyn Lowther Chairman 6 6 The Groups risk management process: Andrew Beeson 6 6 The key risks facing the Group: Luc Bertrand 1 1 The Groups overall governance and risk framework: Robin Buchanan 5 5 The appropriateness of the accounting policies used in drawing up the Groups financial statements: A number of senior executives are invited to attend Committee meetings to assist the Committee in The Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment fulfilling its role.
These include the Chief Executive, the Process as required under the Capital Requirements Chief Financial Officer, the Global Head of Compliance, Directive: the Group Head of Risk, the Group Head of Internal The external auditors year-end report, interim report Audit and the Group General Counsel.
The heads of and management letters: control functions each provide reports on their areas of responsibility.
Other members of senior management The valuation and pricing of investment assets: are also invited to attend as appropriate to present The Groups major IT projects: reports.
The Groups external auditors, , were also represented at The governance of pension schemes: five of the meetings and presented reports on their The stress testing process policy: activities at the four scheduled meetings.
Bruno Schroder attended five meetings in 2010.
The Financial Services Authoritys Advanced, RiskResponsive Operating FrameWork risk assessment On two occasions the Committee held private visit: meetings with the Groups external auditors, and met individually the Group Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Tax strategy and governance: Financial Officer and the Group Head of Risk without Management of the Groups capital and hedging of other executive management present.
These meetings currency and market exposures: and provided an opportunity for matters to be raised in confidence.
The performance, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of audit and The Committee has a formal programme of issues non-audit fees.
which it covers during the year.
This programme is formulated by the Committee Chairman and the Other issues Company Secretary and is designed to ensure that The Committee received reports and presentations on allmatters that fall within the Committees remit are various subjects connected principally to the control reviewed during the year.
The Committee has access environment within the Group.
The Committee also to external independent advice at the Companys considered the global compliance mapping project expense if necessary.
to implement Group-wide standards across all jurisdictions, Group insurances and Private Banking loan collateral.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 53 15 03 2011 12:43 54 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Non-audit services and auditor independence To support the principles of independence under In 2004 the Committee adopted a policy covering the Auditing Practice Board Ethical Standards, the provision of non-audit services to the Group by the auditors are required to have a policy limiting the external auditors.
An updated policy was approved in lengthof time apartner can work on the Schroders 2010.
This enhanced the governance of the provision audit to five years.
In accordance with this policy of such services and provides a clear and transparent  changed the senior audit framework for the objectivity and independence of the partner in 2006 and intends to change the senior external auditors.
Under the policy the provision of any auditpartner in 2011.
The Committee is satisfied service that might lead to a conflict of interest is not thatthe external auditors remainindependent.
permitted unless other appropriate providers are The Committee considered the re-appointment of themselves conflicted.
In such exceptional cases the  as auditors, taking into Audit and Risk Committee must approve each service account the results of the auditor assessment process, and approval will only be given where the Committee the quality of work undertaken and the level of audit issatisfied that appropriate measures are in place to fees.
In its review, the Committee took into account manage or mitigate the potential conflict of interest.
independence, the effectiveness of the audit, cost, the During 2010 there were no instances where tenure of the auditors and the rotation of the lead audit  were engaged to provide partner and the assessment of alternatives including services that might have led to a conflict of interests.
global presence, and did not consider it necessary The policy also has strict rules in relation to the torequire  to tender for approval of contracts for non-audit services which do theaudit work.
The Committee recommended not present a possible conflict of interest.
All contracts there-appointment of the auditors and the Board for non-audit services must be notified to the Head of supported this recommendation which will be put to Financial Reporting and contracts valued in excess of shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
25,000 require prior approval and the auditors are required to confirm that they have completed their own Committee evaluation independence confirmation processes as approved The annual evaluation of the Committees bythe lead engagement partner.
effectiveness was undertaken as part of the overall Board evaluation process.
The specific findings In 2010 the value of non-audit services provided by relating to the Audit and Risk Committee were  to Group companies was discussed with the Committee Chairman.
The range of non-audit Committee received information and support from services provided included tax and compliance management during the year to enable it to carry out advice, reports on internal controls and regulatory its duties and responsibilities effectively.
opinions for regulated subsidiaries across the Group.
The Groups external auditors are required to provide areport to the Audit and Risk Committee every six months detailing all non-audit services, including the level of fees charged, and to have their own internal processes to ensure that the firm, its partners and its staff are independent of the Group.
Annually the Committee reviews a formal letter provided by the external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional standards.
