40 Corporate governance report Chairmans overview Code on Corporate Governance, which will be known Corporate governance is very important to us as a as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have listed company and as one of the UKs largest asset amended our owngovernance arrangements managers, investing in more than 6,800 companies accordingly as explained in this report.
Business integrity, ethical values and alsoadopted the new Stewardship Code which professionalism underpin our approach, and the isdesigned toimprove engagement between Board supports high standards of corporate companies and their institutional shareholders.
In this corporate governance report we explain how Following the financial crisis in 2008 there has been Schroders is governed, how we have applied the principles of the current Combined Code and the renewed focus on corporate governance and risk management.
We welcome this as we believe that extent to which we have complied with its provisions.
wellgoverned companies provide greater opportunities for long-term shareholder value.
We have reviewed carefully the recommendations of the Walker Report Michael Miles ongovernance and the changes to the Combined Chairman Corporate governance in Schroders The Board Schroders Corporate Governance Guidelines form the The Board is accountable to shareholders for the basis for how the Board and its Committees operate, creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial what is expected of Directors and how they discharge performance and long-term shareholder value.
These Guidelines and the Groups other TheBoard achieves this by its own decision making, core governance documents, including the Schedule delegating responsibilities to Board Committees and of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of authority to manage the business to the Chief reference of the principal Board Committees, are Executive.
Certain matters can only be decided by the available on our website at www.
These are contained in the Schedule of Matters orfrom the Company Secretary.
Reserved to the Board and include consideration and approval of: Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, the Board The Groups overall strategy, having regard to the is authorised to manage the business of the Company.
risks of such a strategy: The diagram opposite illustrates the Groups high level The Groups half yearly and annual financial governance framework, how authority is delegated statements, annual report and accounts and from the Board and how independent oversight is dividends: organised.
Significant new business activities: The Board has monitored closely recent developments in corporate governance.
As an investor and as a listed Acquisitions and disposals and other material company we generally support the implementation of transactions: the recommendations of the Walker Report to improve Changes to the Companys capital structure, corporate governance in the UK.
increases in borrowings or any material refinancing or variation of existing borrowings: The strategy for the management of the Groups investment capital and approval of the overall limits for the asset classes in which such capital may be invested: Appointments to and removal from the Board and the Board Committees: and Any actual or potential conflicts of interest relating to any Director.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 40 15 03 2011 04:28 41 Board Accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable performance and long-term shareholder value Chief Executive Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsible for the Committee Committee Committee management of the Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for business and the overseeing financial reviewing and reviewing and strategic development reporting, risk recommending the recommending of the Group management and remuneration strategy changes to the internal control of for the Group and for composition of the the Group setting the remuneration Board and its other of the executive Committees Directors Group Management Chief Financial Committee officer Responsibilities Responsible for delegated to individual financial management, members: Committee oversight of risk and assists the Chief systems of internal Executive in discharging controls for the Group his responsibilities Group Capital Group Risk Group Head of Risk Group Head of Committee Committee Identies and quanties Internal Audit Assists the Chief Assists the Chief risks before and after Provides independent, Financial officer in Financial officer mitigation objective assurance the deployment of in discharging his to management and Executive Committees operational and responsibilities in to the Audit and Risk Executive staff investment capital respect of risk and Committee in respect controls within the of risk management, Independent oversight Group controls and governance processes Direct access to the Audit and Risk Committee The Board Committees are composed entirely of non-executive Directors of Schroders plc Composition of the Board The Chairman and Chief Executive each have a job The Board comprises the Chairman, five executive description setting out their respective responsibilities Directors and six non-executive Directors, of whom and these were reviewed and updated in 2010 as part fiveare considered to be independent.
Robin of an overall review of governance.
Buchanan joined the Board as an independent nonThe Senior Independent Director is Andrew Beeson, executive Director on 4 March 2010.
Sir Peter Job who succeeded Sir Peter Job following his retirement.
retired as aDirector on 6 May 2010.
The names and His main responsibilities are to act as a sounding board biographical details of the current Directors of the for the Chairman and as an intermediary for other Company are given in the Directors profile section Directors when necessary, and to provide shareholders ofthis governance report.
The roles of the Chairman with an alternative means of communication with the and Chief Executive are separate.
Board should they have concerns which cannot be The Chairman is Michael Miles.
He is responsible for resolved by discussions with the Chairman or executive leading the Board, ensuring the effectiveness of the Directors.
In addition, Andrew Beeson chairs the Board, promoting a culture of openness and debate meeting of non-executive Directors at which the and monitoring and evaluating the performance of performance of the Chairman isreviewed annually.
The Chief Executive is Michael Dobson.
He is responsible for the executive management of theCompany and its subsidiaries.
This includes recommending the Groups strategy to the Board.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp037 048. indd 41 15 03 2011 15:36 42 Corporate governance report continued The non-executive Directors considered by the Board As a major investor in UK companies we will not be to be independent are Andrew Beeson, Luc Bertrand, requiring the directors of the companies we invest in Robin Buchanan, Philip Howard and Merlyn Lowther.
Bruno Schroder does not meet the test of Details of Directors service contracts or terms of independence in the Combined Code in view of his appointment are shown in the remuneration report.
relationship with the principal shareholder group and because he has served on the Board for more than None of the Directors had an interest in any significant nine years.
The Board considers that he brings contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries valuable experience to the Board and that he either during or at the end of the year.
alwaysacts in the best interests of the Company.
External non-executive directorships The non-executive Directors bring independent The Board believes that it benefits the Company if experience to Board decision making and are executive Directors and other members of staff accept integralto the Boards ability to discharge its non-executive directorships with other companies in .
order to widen their skills and knowledge.
The Board Under the Companys Articles of Association the has adopted a policy on external appointments so Board has the power to appoint Directors.
Any Director thatemployees may continue to discharge their appointed by the Board may only hold office until the responsibilities to the Group.
Under the policy, next Annual General Meeting, when shareholders have executive Directors should not normally take on the opportunity to vote on their election.
The Articles morethan one non-executive directorship of a major ofAssociation also require each Director to retire from company or any chairmanship of such a company.
office not later than the third Annual General Meeting Directors and employees are usually permitted to following his or her last election or re-election to the retainany fees paid in respect of such appointments.
Under the Schroders Corporate Governance To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive Guidelines, if a non-executive Director has served Directors inform the Chairman before taking up any formore than nine years, they are required to be reexternal appointments.
The Board believes that in elected annually.
The Board has considered carefully widening their skills, experience and expertise through the provisions in the new UK Corporate Governance other appointments, the external appointments of Code with respect to annual re-election.
The Board thenon-executive Directors benefit the Company.
believes that the Companys current provisions for Information about external non-executive directorships re-election remain appropriate and that annual can be found in the Directors profiles section of re-election of all Directors does not encourage a longthisreport.
The Board has therefore decided to retain, subject to review, the current re-election provisions, asdescribed above.
Michael Dobson, Massimo Tosato and Andrew Beeson will retire from office in accordance with theArticles and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Corporate Governance Guidelines and the Combined Code, Bruno Schroder, who has served as a Director for more than nine years, will also retire from office at the Annual General Meeting and offer himself for re-election.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 42 15 03 2011 04:28 43 Board meetings Time commitment There were six Board meetings held in 2010, including We do not specify a minimum number of days that a a two-day meeting at which the Groups strategy was non-executive Director must commit to the Company.
The Chairman and Chief Executive agree We do, however, expect Directors to commit sufficient an 18 month rolling programme of items for discussion, time in order for them to discharge their duties as a which is regularly reviewed and updated to ensure key Director of the Company.
The Board is satisfied that all issues are considered in a timely manner.
At each of of the non-executive Directors allocated sufficient time the Board meetings held in 2010 the Chief Executive throughout 2010 to discharge their responsibilities reported on the performance of the business and the effectively.
Chief Financial Officer provided a review of the Groups financial position.
Other items considered by the Board Information provided to the Board included: Prior to each meeting comprehensive reports and papers are distributed to the Board.
In addition to The strategic development of the Group, including Board papers, relevant information is circulated itspeople strategy: between meetings including information on The Groups financial results: management changes, analysts commentaries on the Company and information on the competitive The budget for 2011: environment and the asset management industry The Groups investment capital and liquidity: generally.
Minutes of the Group Management Committee meetings are also circulated to the Board.
The key risks facing the Group: Executives below Board level are invited to present on The level of dividend: their areas of responsibility at Board meetings and other meetings such as Board briefing sessions.
Direct Our businesses in Asia, continental Europe and the access to senior management is offered to all Directors Americas: through such presentations.
Key business areas including Equities, Fixed Income, Multi-asset, Distribution, Alternatives, Private Training and development Banking, and our information technology and Briefing sessions are held to inform Directors of operational infrastructure: developments in the asset management industry, risk matters and all areas of Schroders business.
Acquisitions: The new UK Code on Corporate Governance requires Corporate responsibility and charitable giving all Directors to have a personal development plan and policies: the Company Secretary will agree these with each The Groups pension scheme: and Director in respect of 2011.
Regulatory and governance matters, including the Induction Groups response to the Walker Report.
New non-executive Directors undertake a personalised Attendance at the Board meetings is set out below: induction programme to familiarise them with their duties and the Groups business, operations, risks and Meetings Meetings attended not attended governance arrangements.
The induction programme includes meetings with senior management and Michael Miles 6 0 presentations on key business areas and risks.
Andrew Beeson 6 0 Luc Bertrand 5 1 Alan Brown 6 0 Robin Buchanan 6 0 Michael Dobson 6 0 Philip Howard 6 0 Merlyn Lowther 5 1 Philip Mallinckrodt 6 0 Kevin Parry 6 0 Bruno Schroder 6 0 Massimo Tosato 5 1 | Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp037 048. indd 43 15 03 2011 14:16 44 Corporate governance report continued Support to the Board The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to The Board Secretary is responsible for advising and the Nominations Committee, the Audit and Risk supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate Committee and theRemuneration Committee.
All Directors have access to the Board Committee chairmen report to the subsequent advice and services of the Board Secretary and can Board meeting on the matters considered by their arrange to receive professional advice independently committees and any significant issues that have ofthe Company, but at the Companys expense, arisen.
Minutes of all Board Committee meetings through the Board Secretary.
Chairmans Committee Risk management Prior to most meetings of the Board, the Chairman The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible for andthe non-executive Directors meet.
Items discussed oversight of the risk management process.
include Board performance and evaluation, the During the year the Board reviewed its approach to risk performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive, oversight in light of the recommendations in the Walker investment performance and remuneration issues.
The Board considered whether it would be The Chief Executive may be invited by the Chairman appropriate for Schroders to establish a separate risk to attend such meetings, and in 2010 he attended committee as required for major banks and insurance onfour occasions.
The Board concluded that this was not necessary as the Audit Committees responsibilities, Delegated authorities asset out in its terms of reference, already included Excluding the matters reserved for the Board, thematters that would come within the remit of a risk authorityto manage the business is delegated to committee.
This will be kept under review.
A number theChief Executive, who in turn delegates specific ofother steps were taken as a consequence of the responsibilities to members of the senior management Walker Report or as a result of reviewing our approach team.
The senior management team meets fortnightly to risk issues generally, including: as the Group Management Committee.
The Group Management Committee is chaired by the Chief The Audit Committees terms of reference were Executive.
revised and the Committee was renamed as the Audit and Risk Committee to reflect better its The current members and their roles are: responsibilities for risk matters: Michael Dobson Chief Executive The Group Head of Risk attends Board meetings when the Board considers the six monthly key risks Geoff Blanning Head of Emerging Market Debt review: Alan Brown Chief Investment Officer The Group Head of Risk attends the Remuneration Karl Dasher Head of Fixed Income Committee meetings on occasion to advise on risk Jamie Dorrien-Smith Head of Americas inrelation to incentive arrangements: Lester Gray Head of Asia Pacific Direct access to the Audit and Risk Committee Ken Lambden Head of Equities Chairman for the Group Head of Risk: Philip Mallinckrodt Head of Private Banking A member of the Audit and Risk Committee is also a Nicolaas Marais Head of Multi-Asset Solutions member of the Remuneration Committee to ensure Kevin Parry Chief Financial Officer there is clear communication between the two Markus Ruetimann Chief Operating Officer Committees on risk matters: Massimo Tosato Executive Vice Chairman Increased focus on risk matters as part of the annual and Global Head of Distribution strategic review: and John Troiano Head of Institutional Business The setting of risk parameters for the management Howard Trust General Counsel of the Groups investment capital.
Nicolaas Marais joined the Group Management Committee on The key risks facing the business and their mitigation 7March 2011. can be found in the Business Review.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 44 15 03 2011 04:28 45 Internal controls The internal controls described above also apply The Board is responsible for the Groups system of inrelation to the process of preparing Group internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Thisdoes not extend to the Groups joint ventures The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing andassociates.
Such a system can provide only process for identifying, evaluating and managing reasonable and not absolute assurance against theGroups significant risks that: material financial misstatement or loss and is designedto mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
Has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of the Annual On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee Report and Accounts: carried out the annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2010, including those related Is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies with to the financial reporting process, using the following to the Financial Reporting Councils revised guidance support its conclusions: for directors on internal control: and Annual assessment of the key financial reporting Ensures necessary actions have been or are being risks faced by the Group and reports by the Chief taken to remedy any significant failings identified as Financial Officer addressing financial reporting part of the ongoing risk management process.
matters and key judgements and estimates: Board effectiveness Annual reports on key accounting policies The Chairman led the Board in conducting an internal andfinancial reporting controls and other key evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of considerations relevant to the publication the principal Board Committees, using a Schroders : specific questionnaire.
The Board considered the use Quarterly reports from the Chairman of the Group of an alternative evaluation process including the use Risk Committee and the Global Head of Compliance ofan external consultant, and agreed that the on the control environment within the Group, questionnaire supplemented by interviews between highlighting any major instances of non-compliance individual Directors and the Chairman where required and the actions taken to remedy such nonwas appropriate.
The questionnaire covered Board compliance: and Committee effectiveness, strategy, Company performance, risk and succession planning.
The Regular risk reports provided by the Group Head responses were analysed and the collated results were ofRisk setting out the most significant risks faced considered by the Board at its meeting in March 2011. bythe Group, and where appropriate quantifying these exposures: The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Board to evaluate performance annually, with an Quarterly reports from the Group General Counsel: external assessment performed every three years.
Quarterly reports from the Group Head of Internal TheBoard currently intends to use an external facilitator Audit on the key issues arising from the Group to conduct an evaluation of its effectiveness in 2012.
Internal Audits programme: The performance of the Chief Executive was Review of the Audit and Assurance Faculty report considered by the Chairmans Committee against oninternal controls produced annually in respect hisagreed objectives for 2010.
The outcome was ofanumber of Group subsidiaries: discussed by the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
Regular reports from the Group Head of Internal A meeting of the non-executive Directors, led by Audit on the control environment: and Andrew Beeson in his role as Senior Independent Director, assessed the performance of the Chairman.
The ICAAP internal assessment of the capital Andrew Beeson discussed the outcome ofthis review required to support the business.
This includes a with the Chairman.
series of rigorous stress tests designed to address the potential impact of the material risks facing theGroup.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 45 15 03 2011 04:28 46 Corporate governance report continued Conflicts of interest The Directors have the authority to issue non-voting In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the ordinary shares in relation to awards made under the Schroders conflicts of interest policy, all Directors must Groups share and share option plans as described disclose both the nature and the extent of any potential inthe remuneration report.
or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
The Company does not intend that the issued share Aregister of disclosed conflicts is maintained and capital should increase over the medium term as a regularly reviewed by the Board.
result of awards under the share and share option plans.
The Company intends to repurchase an Insurance and indemnities equivalent number of non-voting ordinary shares to Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained neutralise any dilutive effect of issues of non-voting by the Company.
ordinary shares made as a result of those plans, as At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders described in the notice of the 2011 Annual General authorised the Company to provide indemnities Meeting.
toDirectors in certain circumstances and to fund At the last Annual General Meeting on 6 May 2010, defencecosts.
The Company has subsequently shareholders renewed the Directors general authority granted specific deeds of indemnity to all Directors to issue non-voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate serving since the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
Renewal of this authority will be sought at the 2011 Annual General Capital structure and voting rights Meeting on 5May 2011.
The Companys share capital is comprised of ordinary shares and non-voting ordinary shares of 1 each.
Also at the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders As at 31 December 2010, 226,022,400 ordinary gave approval for the Company to purchase up to and 64,425,731 non-voting ordinary shares of which 14,400,000 non-voting ordinary shares.
During the 3,770,277 non-voting ordinary shares were held in financial year 3,170,277 non-voting ordinary shares treasury were in issue, representing 77.82 per cent.
were repurchased, representing 4.92 per cent.
respectively of the total issued theissued non-voting ordinary share capital.
There are no other securities currently aggregate amount of consideration paid for the inissue.
Since the year end therehave been no further non-voting ordinary shares The non-voting ordinary share class was introduced repurchased by the Company.
All shares repurchased in1986 to facilitate the operation of an employee share are held in treasury in order to fulfil obligations in option plan without diluting the voting rights of ordinary respect of the Groups share plans, to neutralise any shareholders.
Since then, non-voting ordinary shares dilutive effect of issues of non-voting ordinary shares have been used in connection with employee share made as a result of the Groups share and share option and share option plans.
The non-voting ordinary shares plans described in the remuneration report and for carry the same rights as ordinary shares except that other purposes.
As at the date of this report there they do not confer the right to attend and vote were64,467,659 non-voting ordinary shares in issue atanygeneral meeting of the Company, and on a ofwhich 3,770,277 shares were held in treasury.
capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive Renewal of this general authority will be sought non-voting ordinary shares rather than ordinary atthe2011 Annual General Meeting.
During 2010, the Company issued 1,670,234 non-voting ordinary shares as a result of theexercise ofawards under share and share options plans.
Since the end of the year a further 41,928 non-voting ordinary shares have been issued.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 46 15 03 2011 04:28 47 Under the terms of the Schroders Share Incentive Plan Shareholder relations SIP, participating employees use their own funds to In addition to this report, interim management acquire shares in the Company called Partnership statements and announcements to the London Stock Shares and in return also receive awards of shares Exchange, the Company maintains relationships with called Matching Shares of up to a value of 50 per shareholders through a continuing programme of month.
To qualify for maximum tax benefits, presentations and meetings to inform institutional Partnership Shares and Matching Shares must be investors, analysts and prospective shareholders leftin the SIP for five years.
Participants are free to attended by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial withdraw their Partnership Shares at any time but if Officer and other senior executives.
The Company they do so within one year of the acquisition of the holds in excess of 100 such meetings each year.
Partnership Shares they forfeit the corresponding Further information isprovided through the Matching Shares, save in certain circumstances set announcement of significant developments out in the rules of the SIP.
Shares are held in trust on andattheAnnual General Meeting.
The trustee can exercise the The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director voting rights in respect of the participants share areavailable to meet with shareholders.
Feedback entitlement but can only do so at the participants from shareholders is reported to the Board by the direction.
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Under the terms of the Schroders plc Employee Officer and the Senior Independent Director as Benefits Trust the trustee may vote or abstain from appropriate.
Corporate information for potential voting, or accept any offer relating to shares, in any shareholders, and webcasts of all interim and final waythat it thinks fit.
In so doing, it may take into results, can be found on the Companys website, account both financial and non-financial interests www.
The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an opportunity to question the Chairman, the chairmen of the Boards Committees and the other Directors.
The Chief Executive used this opportunity in 2010 to give a review of the Groups performance in 2009 and to inform shareholders of the results for the first quarter of 2010.
The Annual Report and Accounts and notice of the Annual General Meeting are sent, or made available on the website, to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting being held.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp37 48. indd 47 15 03 2011 04:28 48 Corporate governance report continued Amendments to Articles of Association Compliance with the Combined Code on Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Corporate Governance, the UK Corporate Articles of Association of the Company, the Companys Governance Code and the Stewardship Code Articles of Association may be amended by special Throughout the year, the Company has complied with resolution of the Companys shareholders.
all provisions under the Combined Code except that less than half of theBoard, excluding the Chairman, Substantial shareholdings comprised independent non-executive Directors.
As at the date of this report, the Company has received The Board believes that it is appropriate for Bruno notifications, in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure Schroder, in view of his relationship with the principal and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 R, of interests in three shareholder group, to be a Director.
In relation to the percent.
or more of the voting rights attaching to new UK Corporate Governance Code the Company theCompanys issued share capital, as set out in expects to comply with all provisions except that thetablebelow.
currently less than half of the Board comprise independent non-executive Directors, as explained above, and that Directors will continue to be subject to re-election every three years and not annually.
A new Stewardship Code was introduced during theyear to encourage investors to engage with the companies in which they have invested and, where necessary, hold them to account.
As a significant investor in the UK stock market, we already closely monitored investee companies and actively engaged as a shareholder.
We welcome the UK Stewardship Code and have published a statement of compliance with the guidelines on our website.
Voting rights attached to shares No.
of % of Class of voting rights voting rights Notifier shares held indirectly held indirectly Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 Veritas Limited Ordinary 39,218,470 17.35 # Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 # Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
# The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
