49 Nominations Committee report Having an effective Board is an essential ingredient In this report we detail the role of the Nominations forany successful company.
The Nominations Committee, its membership and the matters under Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition consideration during the year.
of the Board and its principal Committees and for recommending new appointments to the Board.
The composition of the Committee Weplace great emphasis on identifying and selecting All non-executive Directors are members of the candidates who will add to the skillsour Board has and Committee and the current composition is as follows: will add real value to our discussions.
Following the Michael Miles Chairman appointment of Robin Buchanan in March 2010, we Andrew Beeson anticipate being able to announce the appointment of Luc Bertrand another independent non-executive Director in2011.
Robin Buchanan Philip Howard Michael Miles Merlyn Lowther Chairman, Nominations Committee Bruno Schroder 9 March 2011 Robin Buchanan joined the Committee on 4 March 2010 following his appointment to the Board.
Sir Peter Job was a member of the Committee until 6 May 2010 when he retired as a Director of the Company.
The Chief Executive is usually invited to attend Committee meetings.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 49 15 03 2011 12:43 50 Nominations Committee report continued Responsibilities of the Committee Principal issues addressed during 2010 were: The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility The size and composition of the Board and the for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board principal Board Committees: and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or the Board Committees.
The appointment of additional independent Theprincipal responsibilities of the Committee include: non-executive Directors: and Reviewing the size and composition of the Board Review of the non-executive Directors standing for and its Committees and making recommendations re-election at the Annual General Meeting taking into to the Board with respect to the role and account the effectiveness and commitment of those responsibilities for each appointment: Directors.
Ensuring there is a formal, rigorous and transparent The Committee reviewed the size and composition procedure for the appointment of new Directors: ofthe Board and the three principal Committees: Remuneration: Audit and Risk: and Nominations.
The Selecting and interviewing potential candidates for principles agreed by the Board in 2003 and reaffirmed appointment to the Board and its Committees: in 2007, that the Board should be composed of Identifying and recommending suitable candidates executive Directors, independent non-executive for the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent Directors and Directors who have a connection with Director: the principal shareholder, were applied in undertaking the review.
Developing and recommending appropriate criteria for determining Director independence: The Committee recommended that Robin Buchananbe appointed to the Board in 2010 Periodically reviewing the terms of appointment of andalsothat Andrew Beeson be appointed as the the non-executive Directors: and SeniorIndependent Director and Chairman of the Conducting an annual review of the Committees Remuneration Committee.
The Committee also performance and periodically reviewing the recommended that Merlyn Lowther be appointed adequacy ofits terms of reference and asthe Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, recommending any changes to the Board.
andthat Luc Bertrand become a member of the Remuneration Committee, with his place on the Audit The terms of reference were updated in 2010 in and Risk Committee being filled by Robin Buchanan.
response to the introduction of the UK Corporate These recommendations were discussed by the Board Governance Code.
The Committees terms of on 2March 2010 and approved by a Committee of the reference are available at www.
com Board on 3 March 2010. orfromthe Company Secretary.
The Committee also continued its search for an Report on the Committees activities in 2010 additional independent non-executive Director to Meetings and Attendance jointheBoard.
The Committee met on four occasions during the year.
Attendance by Committee members is set out in the Support table below.
The Committee received information and support frommanagement during the year to enable it to Maximum possible Meetings attendance attended carryout its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers Michael Miles Chairman 4 4 where it believes that to be appropriate and to seek any Andrew Beeson 4 4 information that it requires from any officer or employee Luc Bertrand 4 1 of the Group.
The Committee used the services of Robin Buchanan 3 3 external recruitment consultants during the year.
Philip Howard 4 4 Sir Peter Job 1 1 Merlyn Lowther 4 4 Bruno Schroder 4 4 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp049 074. indd 50 15 03 2011 12:43
