Corporate Governance report General principles Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
We support the belief The Board is fi rmly committed to high standards of corporate that human rights are universal and adhere to the principles of human governance.
During the year to 31 December 2010 as detailed below rights in our operations.
We support the United Nations Declaration on and in the Remuneration report on page 46, the Company complied Human Rights and work hard to ensure that in all areas of interaction fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on with our employees, clients, suppliers, third parties, interviewees Corporate Governance June 2008. and joint venture parties that everyone is protected and treated absolutely fairly.
Carillion has a Health & Safety Policy and an The Company will also comply fully with the requirements of the UK Equal Opportunities and Diversity Policy.
Corporate Governance Code June 2010 which replaces the former Combined Code on Corporate Governance and which applies to Law and regulation.
Carillion respects the rule of law in all our fi financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010. dealings and has minimum standard compliance with all law and regulation to which our businesses are subject.
We have legal The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available at compliance programmes for: www.
uk European Union and United Kingdom Competition Laws Ethics and Business Integrity Policy Bribery Act 2010 Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity Canadian Criminal Code C46 and ethics which underlies the Groups core values of openness, Corruption of Foreign Public Offi cials Act Canada.
collaboration, mutual dependency, sustainable, profi table growth, professional delivery and innovation.
The Ethics and Integrity Policy Responsibility.
All of Carillions employees have a responsibility to is designed to ensure that Carillion will conducts its business to the protect Carillions assets, including information and goodwill as well highest ethical standards.
Carillion encourages its people to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and in the right way.
The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy sets out the standards and There is a Whistleblowing Policy and an Ethics and Business Integrity behaviours that all Carillion employees are expected to meet wherever Incident Response Plan.
The way Carillion delivers this policy is refl ected in the way the Group competes for business and delivers its This Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is applied by all Carillions services, focused on quality, value for money and the reliability and business through a series of detailed procedures.
They allow Carillion reputation of its employees.
to carry into practice its reputation for conducting business to the highest ethical standards, which are essential to its relationships with The policy is: customers, business partners, employees, shareholders and the public.
The detailed procedures refl ect the way Carillion competes for Prohibition of fraud, bribery and corruption.
Carillion takes business, through the quality and value of its work and through the extremely seriously the effective prevention and detection of fraud, reliability and reputation of its people.
bribery and corruption and any other fraudulent or corrupt activity.
It will not tolerate them in any form.
The Board is fully committed The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy is overseen by the Business to promoting a zero tolerance approach across the Carillion Group.
Integrity Committee, and its implementation is reviewed annually by the Board.
It is prohibited for a Carillion employee to offer or receive gifts or hospitality that could infl uence or be perceived Directors to be capable of infl uencing the outcome of transactions or decisions The Board relating to Carillions business.
There is a Gifts and Hospitality Policy.
At the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company was led by a Board comprising three Executive and fi five Non-Executive Directors.
Those who have access to inside information are The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are considered advised of their responsibilities under the insider dealing rules.
There to be independent of management.
They each have substantial is a Carillion Insider Dealing Code.
relevant experience and have no business or other relationship that could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
All Carillion employees must disclose or seek David Garman is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
direction on any issues that could potentially confl ict with their responsibilities to the Company.
There is a Confl icts of Interest Policy.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
We must ensure that we maintain our ethical standards and behave respectfully when working with others.
The In 2010, a detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate relationships with Carillions suppliers and business partners are based governance procedures and compliance was conducted by the on the principle of fair and honest dealings at all times and in all ways.
Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The internal We expect our suppliers and business associates and joint venture evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on partners to extend the same high standards to all others with whom i the role of Directors, ii the collective and individual performance they do business, including employees, sub-contractors and other third of the Board and all its members, iii Board Committees, iv leadership parties.
There is a Purchasing and Supply Chain Code of Ethics and a and culture, v Corporate Governance, vi Directors remuneration, Sustainable Supplier Charter.
vii relations with shareholders and viii Board accountability and audit.
The Board at its meeting in November 2010 reviewed the results Competition law.
Carillion plc, its subsidiaries and associated of the internal evaluation and, where required, issues were acted upon companies under Carillion control have a policy that all business in order to further enhance the effectiveness of the Boards procedures activities are carried out in full compliance with competition laws and working practices.
Such an evaluation has been conducted in each the laws which prevent anti-competitive behaviour.
Competition law of the last nine years and will be repeated annually.
In addition, the prevents us from carrying out any activities that restrict competition performance of each individual Director has been reviewed.
and makes illegal activities such as price fi xing, unfair pricing, market sharing and refusal to supply customers.
There is a Competition Compliance Guide.
Carillion aims to maintain high standards of conduct by preventing criminal activity through money laundering.
There is a detailed Money Laundering Policy.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Governance Corporate Governance report continued The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Board Committees Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the The principal Board Committees are the Remuneration Committee, following parameters the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Business Integrity Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to to each of these committees.
The terms of reference of each of provide continuity, experience and governance while the Group the Board Committees are available on the Carillion website at Chief Executive provides leadership, energy, imagination and the www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
driving force the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders.
Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of their respective roles Remuneration Committee encourages the Chairman and Group Chief Executive to work well David Garman, Chairman together to provide effective and complementary stewardship David Maloney the Chairman must: Steven Mogford take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of Vanda Murray the Board consult regularly with the Group Chief Executive and be available The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive on a fl exible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the the Group Chief Executive.
appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
the Group Chief Executive must: Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 46 to 51. manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities Audit Committee prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth David Maloney, Chairman in shareholder value David Garman set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the Steven Mogford agreed strategy Vanda Murray ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit The Board had a programme of 10 meetings in 2010 and it also Committee on pages 43 and 44. met on an ad hoc basis as required.
Nominations Committee A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration Philip Rogerson, Chairman and decision is maintained.
These matters include David Garman David Maloney statutory issues such as the approval of fi final and interim fi financial John McDonough statements and the recommendation of dividends Steven Mogford appointments to, and removals from, the Board and the terms Vanda Murray of reference and membership of Board committees approval of Group strategy and annual budgets The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance approval of authority levels, fi financial and treasury policies of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes authorisation for any acquisition or disposal recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are review of the internal control arrangements and risk management deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning strategies to ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both review of corporate governance arrangements.
The Executive Directors and the Carillion subsidiary companies operate Business Integrity Committee within clearly defi ned limits of authority delegated by the Board and Philip Rogerson, Chairman any matters outside of these limits must be referred to the Board for Steven Mogford consideration.
Vanda Murray All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible The Committee established in December 2010 in succession to the to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and applicable rules Review Committee, reviews and oversees the implementation of the and regulations are observed.
The Board approves the appointment Groups Ethics and Business Integrity Policy, monitors the Groups and removal of the Company Secretary.
compliance with relevant legislation such as the Bribery Act 2010 and the Competition Act 2006, ensures that the Groups communication Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent and training programmes on ethics and business integrity is effective professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
in reinforcing ethical values and good practice and reviews the policies and practice in respect of business ethics and integrity in relation to The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the the commencement of operations in any new country or territory in fi financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the which the Company has not previously operated.
Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, markets, Health & Safety, sustainability and other relevant issues.
42 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Attendance at meetings in 2010 Induction and development of Directors The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on attended by each Director during 2010 was as follows: joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a listed company.
In addition, all new Audit Remuneration Nominations Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such matters Board Committee Committee Committee as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and Number of meetings held 10 4 3 3 the Companys corporate governance procedures.
Directors are also briefed by the Companys external advisers, where appropriate, on Richard Adam 10 changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as David Garman 10 4 3 3 receiving briefi ngs from business units throughout the year.
Richard Howson 10 Donald Kenny 6 At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in David Maloney 10 4 3 3 November 2010 the Directors visited the Groups operations in John McDonough 10 3 Oman.
Directors also visit other operations and meet a wide range Steven Mogford 10 4 3 3 of employees.
Vanda Murray 10 4 3 3 Philip Rogerson 10 3 The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the Company Secretary Mr Kenny stood down from the Board in August 2010. is notifi ed by Directors of their requirements in this respect.
The Business Integrity Committee was established in December 2010 in succession to the Review Committee and a schedule of meetings is planned for in 2011.
Relations with shareholders In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time Other Board matters to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate Policy on external appointments Affairs meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in Recognising that external appointments can broaden their knowledge order to foster the mutual understanding of objectives.
Meetings are and so be of benefi t to the Company, Executive Directors are also held with other shareholders and prospective shareholders.
The permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited number of details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
The Chairman such appointments and retain the fees received for such appointments.
and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available for John McDonough was a Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc and meetings with representatives of major shareholders as required.
Richard Adam was a Non-Executive Director of SSL International plc until these companies were each taken over in 2010.
Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Nomination and remuneration of Directors The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the Board The Company complies fully with the provisions of the UK as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
Corporate Governance Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen For Board appointments, the Nominations Committee has used the of the Remuneration and Audit Committees will be present at services of the executive recruitment consultants JCA and Odgers.
the Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2011 to respond to Details of potential candidates are provided by the consultants and shareholders questions.
initially reviewed by a sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with selected candidates are then held with Directors.
Accountability and Audit Subsequently, the Nominations Committee meets to recommend Report of the Audit Committee an appointment, which is then proposed to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors: In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are normally for three years: reappointment is subject to review and is David Maloney, Chairman not automatic.
David Garman Steve Mogford The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a Vanda Murray whole, taking into account the commitment required and participation in the work of committees and other advisory services in relation to David Maloney is an accountant who previously held a number of the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the senior fi finance posts including Chief Financial Offi cer for Le Meridien policy of the Executive Directors to seek independent external advice Hotels and Resorts, Chief Financial Offi cer for the Thomson Travel concerning the appropriateness of the amounts by comparison with Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
The level of fees currently payable to the NonDavid was appointed to the Audit Committee in December 2005.
Executive Directors is based on independent external advice.
David Garman was appointed to the Audit Committee in October The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration 2004.
Until takeover in 2008, David was Chief Executive of TDG plc.
David is a Non-Executive Director of Phoenix IT Group plc, St. Modwen plc and a number of private companies.
Retirement of Directors In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors Vanda Murray is Chairman of Vphase plc, Deputy Chairman of the will submit themselves for re-election at at the Annual General Meeting North West Regional Development Agency and a Non-Executive to be held on 4 May 2011 with the exception of David Garman who Director of SIG plc and The Manchester Airport Group plc.
Vanda will stand down from the Board at the AGM.
was appointed to the Audit Committee in July 2005.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and Steve Mogford is Chief Executive designate of United Utilities Group conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available PLC and will become Chief Executive on 31 March 2011.
Prior to for inspection at the registered offi ce of the Company during normal this appointment, Steve was Chief Executive of Selex Galileo Ltd. business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at the From April 2000 to May 2007, he was a Director of BAE Systems plc.
Steve was appointed to the Audit Committee in September 2006.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 Governance Corporate Governance report continued The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of Internal controls the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the external The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal auditors KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk and the Head of control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it requires from time environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal to time.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external control system.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable and internal auditors.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board the review of the annual and interim fi financial statements confi rms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations and managing the signifi cant risks both fi financial and non-fi financial and the fi financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the compliance with statutory and other external requirements Group including Joint Ventures and overseas businesses.
The process reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of of its audit work and the response of management approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly reviewed reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its by the Board.
cost-effectiveness ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across complementary the Group is provided through a combination of techniques monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and ensuring that the services provided including Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and non-audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the and value for money business and reports its fi findings to management, the Executive recommending to the Board the external auditors to be proposed Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented to shareholders for appointment.
to and approved by the Audit Committee annually recommendations to improve the system of control are made by The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any information Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations necessary to fulfi l its duties, ii call any member of staff to be is followed up and reported on quarterly questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required and Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identifi cation iii obtain external professional advice, at the Companys expense, procedures and control processes implemented by management which might be necessary for the fulfi lment of its duties.
a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in 31 December 2010 their business areas is appropriate.
They also confi rm annually, in In 2010, the Committee met on four occasions and dealt with the writing, that risk management processes and appropriate controls following matters are in place and are operating effectively Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application internal audit reports including control of risk of internal controls in key business projects and on policy and annual and interim fi financial statements procedure changes.
KPMG Audit Plc audit review reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
2010 external audit plan The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and 2010 and 2011 internal audit plans ensures that the level of confi dence required by the Board is assessment of the going concern basis obtained.
It also ensures the fi financial reporting process is credible review of compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate and reliable.
The Audit Committee presents its fi findings to the Board Governance June 2008 regularly and the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the the external audit fee.
An evaluation of the external audit function was undertaken and Any signifi cant internal control issues would be disclosed in this report.
considered by the Audit Committee, following which the Committee On the basis of the assurances given in 2010, no disclosures in this recommended to the Board the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc respect are required.
as auditor to the Company and for it to be put to shareholders in general meeting.
Risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that the Groups The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive systems for risk management are appropriate and operating effectively.
Directors which also refl ect their membership of the Audit Committee However, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute and other Board committees.
The chairman of the Audit Committee assurance against material misstatement or loss.
receives an additional fee for this role.
Details of remuneration are given on page 47.
The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Committee see page 45.
This appraisal ensures that the differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly identifi ed so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the project have been properly identifi ed and considered.
44 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management is responsible for the identifi cation and evaluation of The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by signifi cant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These after discussions between the businesses and the local KPMG offi ces risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Rotation of audit variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, directors responsibilities within KPMG is required by their professions disruption in information systems, competition, corporate social ethical standards.
The current audit director responsible for the responsibility, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Carillion engagement is in his second year of signing the report.
Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of There is also rotation of key members within the audit team.
business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies set by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance review Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and are meetings are held where management reports to the Executive subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
In summary, the procedures are The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts as the audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions including of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support capital expenditure, major contracts and company and business is required then this is considered competitively acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has delegated authority up tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion to specifi ed levels of risk as determined by a risk assessment matrix, uses KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other beyond which Board approval is required.
Signifi cant pieces of tax work are evaluated competitively In addition, practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group general and systems consulting: all signifi cant consulting projects policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels are subject to competitive tender.
for commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of guarantees and management accounting as well as reporting and Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is to determine that other The Board has a policy to prosecute individuals found to have potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for management are identifi ed and action plans implemented to These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate minimise the recurrence of fraud.
confi dence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confi dential Health & safety and sustainability whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party A review of the Groups progress on Health & Safety is provided is available.
in the Group Chief Executives review on page 18 and the Groups Sustainability performance is contained in the Sustainability review The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in on pages 32 to 35. the business and the external environment that affect signifi cant risks.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with regular fi financial information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
These key performance indicators and risks are listed in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 16 to 21.
R F Tapp Where areas for improvement are identifi ed, the Board considers the Secretary recommendations made both by the Executive Directors and by the 2 March 2011 Audit Committee.
Audit independence The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit director is present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the auditor, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any judgmental areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45
