Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Company has taken to Ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and apply the principles and provisions set out in the Combined adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the Code on Corporate Governance.
Company from fraud and other significant risks.
St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of Corporate Deciding the Companys policy on charitable and Governance and supports the principles set out in both the political donations.
Combined Code the Code and the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Listing Rules require UK listed A copy of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board can be companies to state whether they have complied with the found on the corporate website at www.
provisions of the Code during the year.
The Board considers that the Company has achieved compliance with all of the provisions Operational matters are delegated to management via the of the Code throughout the financial year and details of how the Boards Executive Committee, comprising solely Executive Company has applied the principles of the Code are set out in Directors of the Board.
The Executive Committee is responsible this report.
for implementing the Groups business plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources are put in place to achieve those Information relating to substantial shareholdings, restrictions on objectives and managing the day-to-day operational business of voting rights, powers of the Directors, appointment of Directors the Group.
and the authority to purchase own shares are disclosed within the Directors Report on pages 44 and 45.
The Company maintains a Board Control Manual BCM which sets out the primary policy and decision-making The Board mechanisms within the Company.
The manual includes the The Board of Directors are responsible for providing Terms of Reference for the various sub-Committees of the entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company and set Board, the Companys risk policies and risk appetite statement.
the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
They ensure In addition, detailed job descriptions for each Executive and controls are in place to deliver value to shareholders and the subsidiary Director are included, as well as a general job wider community of individuals and organisations which benefit description outlining the responsibilities of the Non-executive from the Companys activities.
The Board also assesses whether Directors.
The BCM is updated by the Company Secretary and the necessary financial and human resources are in place to approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
enable the Company to meet its objectives.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive There were six formal Board meetings during the year, plus an The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the additional all-day Strategy Meeting.
A table detailing the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, Directors attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 50. are clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
No single Director has unfettered powers of decision-making.
The In advance of each meeting, all members of the Board are Chairman is responsible for ensuring the continued effectiveness supplied with an agenda and pack containing reports on current of the Board and for setting its agenda so that adequate time is trading, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and available for substantive discussion on strategic issues.
The Chairmen of the various sub-Committees Chairman also promotes effective communication between the of the Board also report to the Board at each Board meeting and Executive and Non-executive Directors and with shareholders copies of Committee meeting minutes are included in Board generally.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to packs, for information purposes.
manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for it and its primary responsibilities include: The Senior Independent Director Michael Sorkin is the Senior Independent Director and acts as a Determining the overall strategy of the Company.
sounding board and confidante for the Non-executive Directors.
Ensuring that the Companys operations are well managed Michael is available to meet with shareholders on request and to and proper succession plans are in place.
ensure that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved Reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the through the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Implementing appropriate Corporate Governance procedures.
Directors and Directors Independence Periodically reviewing the results and operations of The Board currently consists of an Executive Chairman, four the Company.
Executive Directors, six independent Non-executive Directors and one non-independent Non-executive Director.
The St. Jamess Place plc 48 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance non-independent Non-executive Director, Steve Colsell, has During the year, the Chairman and the Company Secretary been nominated by the Companys largest shareholder, Lloyds reviewed the induction process for new appointments to the Banking Group plc.
Biographical details of all the Directors can Board, as well as the continuing professional development needs be found on pages 42 and 43.
The terms and conditions of of all Directors.
Ongoing training was reviewed and agreed by appointment of the Non-executive Directors are available on the Chairman and Company Secretary for all Directors during request and will be available for inspection at the Annual the year following individual discussions with each Director, General Meeting in May 2011. taking account of their roles and responsibilities on Board committees.
Ad hoc training was set up in the year to deal with Jo Dawson resigned from the Board on 5 February 2010, individual requests and the Non-executive Directors are able to following her decision to leave Lloyds Banking Group.
Charles attend seminars or conferences which they consider will assist Gregson joined the Board as an independent Non-executive them in carrying out their duties.
Non-executive Directors are Director with effect from 1 January 2010. briefed on the views of major shareholders at Board meetings and have an opportunity to meet with shareholders, as necessary.
The quality of individual Directors and the Boards overall composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness.
Directors are regularly updated on their duties and Committee membership is reviewed annually to ensure skills responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company are refreshed over time.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors Secretary, as well as independent professional advice where have sufficient time to devote to their roles.
needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further training is made available, as necessary, to ensure that the whole Board is kept When determining whether a Non-executive Director is abreast of relevant developments such as regulatory changes independent, the Board considers whether each individual has an applicable to their roles.
Topical issues are addressed prior to independent character and considers how they conduct each Board meeting.
During 2010, the Company Secretary and themselves in Board meetings.
Other criteria include how they other senior executives updated the Board on an array of exercise judgement and whether they act in the best interests of pertinent topics such as the Companys Administration and IT the Company and its shareholders at all times.
strategy, Solvency II, the results of the staff survey and they also received a presentation by the FSAs Supervisory Team.
Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin have served on the Board for more than nine years, which is a relevant factor in the Board Evaluation consideration of their independence.
The Board has considered The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own this point with particular care and believes that Derek and performance during the year which included a review of its Michael have continued to demonstrate their independence Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation was when carrying out their duties on the Board.
They have conducted by the Company Secretary, who carried out constructively challenged management as and when they individual interviews with each Board member.
The findings consider it appropriate and have contributed significantly in were presented to the Board and a number of relatively minor Board and Committee meetings.
Their individual skills and improvements were implemented, including the inclusion of extensive knowledge of the financial services sector have been more information in Board packs and devoting more time at extremely helpful to the business in general.
In particular, Board meetings to strategic issues.
The Board has committed to Dereks financial knowledge has been invaluable in connection undertaking externally-led evaluations every three years in with his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee and Michael accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code and Sorkins knowledge of the City has been particularly helpful in the first such evaluation will be carried out in 2011. his role as the Senior Independent Director.
Mike Power was appointed as the Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee in The Chairman met each of the Non-executive Directors 2009, as part of the Boards ongoing succession plans.
separately to discuss the results of the evaluation in relation to their performance on the Board and its Committees.
Other Induction and Continuing Professional Development items discussed included suitable topics for pre-Board On joining the Board, Directors are given a pack of presentations, training requirements and succession plans.
comprehensive documents providing background information about the Group.
An appropriate induction programme is set up The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent for them which enables the new Director to meet senior Director, met without the Chairman present to appraise the management, understand the business and future strategy, the Chairmans performance and to discuss other topical issues such main risks potentially affecting the Group, visit office locations as the overall performance of the Board.
The Senior and speak directly to Partners and staff around the country.
Independent Director carried out a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance, using the feedback obtained during the Board evaluation process and met with the Chairman to discuss any issues raised.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Corporate Governance Report continued Board Committees There are five sub-Committees of the Board: Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees.
The membership and Terms of Reference of the Committees are reviewed annually and the Terms of Reference are available on the corporate website www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company.
Attendance at Meetings The attendance by individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2010 was as follows: Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nominations Investment 7 Meetings 5 Meetings 5 Meetings 3 Meetings 2 Meetings 9 Meetings Sarah Bates 6 5 9 David Bellamy 7 3 3 2 Andrew Croft 7 4 1 9 Steve Colsell 7 2 Ian Gascoigne 7 3 Charles Gregson 7 1 2 David Lamb 7 9 Derek Netherton 7 5 3 2 Mike Power 7 5 5 Michael Sorkin 7 3 3 3 2 6 Roger Walsom 7 5 3 Mike Wilson 7 2 2 Charles Gregson joined and Michael Sorkin ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 1 October 2010.
Figures in brackets indicate where a Director has been invited where a potential conflict of interest situation arises.
Under the by a Committee to attend the meeting, but is not a formal procedure, the relevant Director must disclose to the Board the member of the Committee.
The Group Risk Director is invited actual or potential conflict of interest for discussion by the other to attend part of Board meetings throughout the year to present members of the Board.
The Board will consider the potential his Group Risk report.
He also attends Risk and Audit conflict on its particular facts and decide whether to waive the Committee meetings during the year.
potential conflict if it believes this to be in the best interests of the Company.
The process involves keeping detailed records and Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance Board minutes in respect of authorisations granted by the Board The Company has taken out insurance covering Directors and and the scope of approvals given.
Conflict authorisations are officers against liabilities they may incur in their capacity as reviewed annually by the Board.
All members of the Board and other senior employees who act as Directors of subsidiary companies have Relations with Shareholders each been granted indemnities from the Company to the extent The Board maintains close relationships with institutional permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount and shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings and the protect recipients from certain losses and liabilities that they may Finance Director provides feedback to the Board on topics incur to third parties in connection with the furtherance of their raised by major shareholders.
The Company also meets regularly duties as Directors of the Company, or its subsidiaries.
Copies of with JPMorgan Cazenove, who facilitates meetings with the indemnities are available to shareholders on request.
The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation with shareholders and The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors on other Non-executive Directors are also available to meet with terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in During the year an investor audit was carried out by the force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December independent investor relations consultants Makinson Cowell, to 2010, and remain in force at the date of this report.
seek the views of shareholders on a variety of subjects.
The results of the investor audit were presented to the Board.
Board Procedures to Deal with Directors Conflicts of Interest members receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers Procedures have been approved by the Board to deal with reports on the Company.
situations where a Director either has a conflict of interest, or St. Jamess Place plc 50 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming The Terms of Reference that set out the Committees role and Annual General Meeting to answer shareholders questions on authority can be found on the corporate website.
the Companys business and the activities of the Board and its Committees.
Activities During 2010, the Committee focused on succession plans in Relationship with Lloyds Banking Group plc relation to the Chairman of the Investment Committee and The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the other Board executive and Non-executive positions.
The Agreement with Halifax Group plc in 2000, to regulate the Committee discussed the attributes required for future relationship between the two companies after the completion of Non-executive Directors and the timing of any future changes in a Partial Offer.
The Agreement was novated to HBOS plc, order to continue the gradual refreshing of the Board.
following the merger between Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001.
On 16 January 2009, HBOS plc was acquired by Lloyds Remuneration Committee TSB Bank plc, which subsequently changed its name to Lloyds The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent Banking Group plc LBG.
The Committee met three times during the year and the current members attendees are: The principal purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the Company operates independently of LBG and to provide that the Members: Attendees: relationship between LBG and the Company will be conducted Michael Sorkin Chairman David Bellamy on an arms-length basis.
Under the Agreement, LBG has the Derek Netherton Mike Wilson authority to appoint a number of Directors to the Board and its Roger Walsom Andrew Croft Committees and the number varies in relation to LBGs Charles Gregson from 1 March 2010 shareholding in the Company.
LBG currently has the right to appoint three Non-executive Directors to the Board although, as Duties at the date of this report, LBG has appointed one Non-executive The Committee is responsible for determining the Companys Director, being Steve Colsell.
broad policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors, the Nomination Committee Group Risk Director and other senior executives where The Nomination Committee comprises two independent applicable, including any executive whose total remuneration is Non-executive Directors and the Executive Chairman.
The expected to exceed the median total remuneration of the Committee met three times during the year and the current Executive Directors.
members and attendees are: The Committee agrees at the start of the year the short term Members: Attendees: and long term bonus schemes for the Executive Directors, Michael Sorkin Chairman David Bellamy including any applicable performance conditions or metrics and Derek Netherton then reviews the performance of individual Directors and senior Mike Wilson management against the objectives set by the Committee.
In the event of a Director leaving the Group, the Committee will Duties review and determine the scope of any termination payment and The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating severance terms.
The Committee is also responsible for candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
Prior selecting, appointing and setting the Terms of Reference for any to any appointment being made, the Committee evaluates the remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
skills, knowledge and experience of existing members and prepares a comprehensive description of the role and capabilities The Terms of Reference that set out the Committees role and required for a particular appointment.
authority can be found on the corporate website and further details on the activity of the Committee during the year is set Succession planning forms a core remit of the Committee, out in the Remuneration Report on page 56. taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company at present and in the future and the Committee gives full consideration to the type of skills and expertise required at Board and senior management level.
The Committee will, from time to time, use the services of an external search consultancy to assist in finding suitable candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Corporate Governance Report continued Investment Committee managers.
The Committee also provided oversight of the The Investment Committee met nine times during the year and introduction of a range of example Portfolios to the Partnership, the current members of the Committee are: together with the accompanying client facing material.
Sir Mark Weinberg Chairman More detail on the work of the Committee can be found in the Sarah Bates Report of the Investment Committee 2010, located on the Andrew Croft Companys website at www.
David Lamb Michael Sorkin Audit Committee Vivian Bazalgette from 1 January 2010 The Audit Committee met five times during the year and the Peter Dunscombe from 1 January 2010 current members and attendees of the Committee are: Chris Ralph from 1 January 2010 Members: Attendees: Various members of the Asset Management team and Derek Netherton Chairman Andrew Croft representatives from Stamford Associates were invited to attend Mike Power Deputy Chairman Steve Colsell meetings during the year.
In January 2010, the Committee Charles Gregson appointed 1 October 2010 appointed three new members.
Vivian Bazalgette and Peter Michael Sorkin retired 1 October 2010 Dunscombe are independent consultants who have a wealth of knowledge and experience in the investment management arena.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent NonChris Ralph was appointed as the Companys Chief Investment executive Directors who have considerable financial experience.
Officer and also became a member of the Committee.
In Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 42 and 43.
January 2011, the Company announced that Sir Mark Weinberg Attendees at meetings during the year included the Finance would be stepping down as Chairman of the Investment Director, the Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Committee in July 2011 and that Vivian Bazalgette would be members of the Finance team, as well as the external auditor.
appointed as Chairman of the Committee in his place.
Steve Colsell also attended meetings as the LBG representative.
Duties Duties The Committees main responsibilities include overseeing the The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys Companys Investment Management Approach, monitoring the internal and external audit resource and examining any matters performance and suitability of the Groups range of independent that relate to the financial affairs of the Company.
This includes Fund Managers, as well as ensuring that the Fund Managers advising the Board on the Companys interim and annual follow the terms of their agreements with the Company.
Where financial statements, its accounting policies and compliance necessary, the Committee will make recommendations in with accounting standards.
The Committee also assists the relation to the appointment or removal of Fund Managers and Board to ensure that the financial and non-financial information also considers any new funds which are to be made available to supplied to shareholders provides a balanced assessment of the the Groups clients.
Activities Other duties include maintaining an appropriate relationship During the year, the Committee monitored the performance of with the external auditors, reviewing the nature and scope of the Groups Fund Managers and focused on specific manager the work performed by them and their responses to issues as they arose.
Face-to-face reporting sessions were held management.
The Terms of Reference that set out the with managers, which provided the Committee with an Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate opportunity to evaluate and assess their investment philosophy website at www.
and processes and question the individual fund managers on topical issues.
Activities During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the draft The Committee also considered the Investment Manager Report Interim and Annual Reports and associated announcements and from Stamford Associates and brought about a number of considered the accounting principles, policies and practices changes and additions to the Investment Managers appointed by adopted in the Companys financial statements and proposed the Group.
Following a rigorous review and selection process, changes were made, where necessary.
The Committee the Committee oversaw the changes to the range of funds considered significant accounting issues and areas of judgement, announced in September 2010, bringing the number of funds as well as deferred tax and other liabilities potentially affecting run by the Company to 27, managed by a range of external fund the Company.
St. Jamess Place plc 52 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance The Committee considered the appropriateness, independence Duties and services provided by the external auditor.
Other areas The Committees responsibilities include fostering a culture of considered during the year included: effective risk identification and management and reviewing the major and emerging risks affecting the Group.
The Committee The terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and can call for reports from senior management on how material scope of the audit, as set out in the external auditors risks are being managed and annually review the procedures for engagement letter.
the identification, recording and mitigating of material risks.
Where necessary, the Committee makes recommendations for Issues that arose during the course of the audit and changes in risk related practices and procedures and can seek their resolution.
external input for its work, where necessary.
Key accounting and audit judgements.
Recommendations made by the external auditors and the The Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies are reviewed adequacy of managements response.
annually and all material areas of concern, or weakness, reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Group The Committee increased the financial limit for non-audit Risk Director reports to the Committee on risk issues at each related advice and consultancy work by the external audit firm meeting and has direct access to the Chairman of the Risk to 175,000 from 100,000 per year.
Details of the amount Committee, should the need arise.
The Group Risk Directors paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and remuneration is approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The non-audit related services are set out in the Notes to the Terms of Reference that set out the Committees role and Accounts on page 86. authority can be found on the corporate website.
Other activities undertaken by the Committee during the year Activities included consideration of the Internal Audit function audit plan, During the year, the Committee received regular management which included a review of the Companys system of internal reports from senior executives on risk identification and financial controls and a review of the Groups whistle-blowing mitigation within their areas of the business.
Committee members also received updates from the update from the Group Legal Director on risk mitigation in chair of the Risk Committee and discussed risks identified on relation to the Legal and Client Liaison Departments, an update the Emerging, Topical & Corporate Risk Schedules.
on the risks associated with developing the Investment Management Approach, a review of Partners other business The Committee received and considered the Individual Capital interests and a discussion on the risks associated with Assessment ICA report of the life company, St. Jamess Place professional qualifications.
There was an additional meeting UK plc SJP UK.
SJP UK is required by the Regulator to scheduled during the year to consider the principles set out in maintain a capital assessment for regulatory purposes and one of the FSAs Remuneration Code and whether any of the the responsibilities of the Committee is to review and consider procedures in the Code should be adopted by the Company.
The Committee reviewed and discussed the risks identified on Risk Committee the Emerging, Topical and Corporate Risk Schedules as well as The Risk Committee met five times during the year and the the annual Risk Appetite Statement, the Internal Audit plan current members and attendees comprise: and the Individual Capital Assessment for SJP UK.
The Committee also conducted an annual review of the risk Members: Attendees: management framework.
Mike Power Chairman David Bellamy Sarah Bates Ian Gascoigne The annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers report was Roger Walsom Bill Tonks Group Risk Director reviewed by the Committee during the year.
The report included an examination of the governance framework, All members of the Committee are independent Non-executive operation of systems and controls and training requirements in Directors who have considerable financial and or risk-based respect of anti-money laundering activities within the Group.
Biographies for each Director can be found on pages 42 and 43.
Other attendees at meetings during the year Internal Control and Risk Management included the Head of Internal Audit, Head of Risk Management The Board retains overall responsibility for the effectiveness of and a representative from Lloyds Banking Group, the the Groups system of risk management and internal control Companys major shareholder.
systems including, financial, operational and compliance Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 Corporate Governance Report continued controls.
The Audit and Risk Committees of the Board along This system of internal control is designed to ensure that the with appropriately structured, staffed and qualified Internal primary objectives of compliance with applicable laws and Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the regulation, effective and efficient operations, quality financial Directors in the discharge of these responsibilities and oversee and operational reporting and safeguarding of assets, are met.
When significant control issues have occurred, the Audit The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the UK Committee has received full and detailed reports from Corporate Governance Code throughout the financial year and management and Internal Audit, including proposals for up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
amending and strengthening the business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous improvement.
Where In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, appropriate, such cases have been referred to the Board by the the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Director to maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas for further discussion.
and have processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Adherence to regulatory codes of In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have conduct is required at all times and the Board actively promotes regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks a culture of quality and integrity.
In addition to these ongoing occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore procedures, the Audit Committee conducts an annual review designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to that considers the effectiveness of the Groups risk management achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and and internal control systems, including financial, operational not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement and compliance.
The review also includes the nature and scope or loss.
of the ongoing monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the potential impact on these In the Boards view, the information it has received from processes as a result of any changes during the year to the risks entity-wide risk assessment, operational management, and the that the Group faces.
reports issued by Internal Audit has been sufficient to enable it to properly review the effectiveness of the Companys system of The Group utilises a number of outsourced service providers to internal control, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for provide administration services to the Group companies.
These Directors on Internal Control.
services are detailed in formal contracts and their delivery is monitored by dedicated relationship managers against documented Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of Service Level Agreements and Key Performance Indicators.
the Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements Each year the outsourced service providers are required to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, confirm and evidence the adequacy and effectiveness of their the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial internal control framework as assessed against the requirements statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of the COSO Internal Control Integrated Framework and to confirm that no material control issues have been identified in Company law requires the directors to prepare financial their operations over the course of the year that would require statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors notification to the Company.
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted The Company operates a multilayered series of internal controls by the European Union, and the Parent Company financial over its financial reporting processes.
The key elements of the statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally framework comprise the documentation, assessment and Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting performance of controls in key risk areas, monthly review and Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors sign off of all financial accounting data submitted by outsourced must not approve the financial statements unless they are service providers together with the accounts of all subsidiaries satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs within the Group, and the formal review of the financial of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the statements by senior management, for both individual companies group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, within the Group as well as at the consolidated Group level.
the Directors are required to: In addition, the published financial statements of the Company and the Group are formally reviewed by the Audit Committee, select suitable accounting policies and then apply with particular focus on key areas of judgement and them consistently: accounting estimates.
St. Jamess Place plc 54 Registered No.
3183415 Corporate Governance make judgements and accounting estimates that are Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in reasonable and prudent: the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and that, to the best of their knowledge: applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in the Group and Parent Company financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and respectively: and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis of the Group: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will the European Embedded Value EEV supplementary continue in business.
information has been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value principles issued in May 2004 by The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the Chief Financial Officers Forum as supplemented by the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles : and the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable the business review referenced to in the Directors Report them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 the business and the position of the Group, together with a and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the description of the principal risks and uncertainties that IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the it faces.
assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the Embedded Value methodology EVM contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: identified and described the business covered by the EVM: applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
