Corporate governance Delivering sustainable shareholder value In 2010 I was particularly pleased with the A highly effective board is way that we used individualised tailored about culture, behaviours and engagement plans to ensure that each non-executive director maintained the skills, values underpinned by knowledge, exposure and information robust processes.
needed to be fully effective.
I can confirm that I conducted a rigorous review of the John Peace effectiveness of each director.
Rudy Chairman Markham, in his role as Senior Independent Director, was similarly rigorous in the assessment of my contribution to the Board.
This year we will propose all In 2010 we appointed Boardroom Review to directors for re-election as we believe that Dear Shareholder facilitate the Boards effectiveness this will not adversely impact directors evaluation.
Dr Tracy Long conducted focus on promoting the long-term success 2010 was a year of progress and evolution interviews with all Board members, of the company.
for the Board, particularly in relation to the prepared a report and stimulated a Board Boards composition and the use of conversation regarding her observations.
I strongly believe that Standard Chartereds boardcommittees.
The evaluation almost totally confirmed the open culture where board members have views that we had internally and I see this unfettered access to information and Three new independent non-executive as a good indicator of the openness that people across the network is a critical directors joined the Board.
These exists within the Board and between the enabler for the Boards overall appointments brought deeper levels of Board and the executives.
It was notable that the banking and finance experience to the table particularly useful to gain an external non-executive directors made 40 visits to as well as broader geographic perspective and Dr Long provided greater countries across our footprint in 2010 up representation from across insight into board effectiveness practices from 23 in 2009.
This is one factor that our footprint.
demonstrates the high commitment of the directors to their roles.
We believe in regularly refreshing the We created separate Audit and Risk Boards composition.
In this respect, over Committees during the year and enhanced As Chairman, promoting standards of the past five years there have been nine the remit of the Brand and Values exemplary corporate governance is central appointments and 10 directors have Committee.
We now have four primary to my role.
Engaging with shareholders is stepped down from the Board.
We believe board committees and two enabling board one key aspect of effective corporate that it is important to have the right balance committees.
As described later in the governance.
In this context I am pleased to between directors with a deep and report, these are operating well and we introduce and endorse this Corporate longstanding knowledge of the organisation have enhanced the linkages between these Governance report.
You will notice that the built up over a number of years and new committees with the Board as a whole.
The style of this report is less formal and more joiners who add a fresh perspective to the linkages between the committees are discursive than in previous years.
The aim is Boards deliberations.
critical given that it is impractical for all to provide you with a richer, more textured non-executive directors to be members of avour of how the Board and its Assessing and improving the Boards all of the committees.
committees full their governance effectiveness is something that happens responsibilities on an ongoing basis.
continuously rather than being We believe that a highly effective board is concentrated into a formal annual review about chemistry and behaviour, although it process.
In 2009 we conducted an intensive internal corporate governance is important to ensure that there are good review over a period of months, which led processes that underpin and enable the tothe changes in Board composition and Board and the directors to maximise their the re-conguration of our board effectiveness.
As Chairman I strive to create John Peace Chairman committeestructure.
an inclusive environment where open 2 March 2011 debate and constructive challenge is encouraged within the context of a cohesive unitary Board.
88 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 Smooth induction and integration of three new Continue to focus on the prevailing external conditions independent non-executive directors and one executive and the potential impact on our strategy and director to the Board businessmodel Evolution of individualised engagement plans for each Maintaining the right balance in pursuing growth non-executive director opportunities in tandem with appropriate governance, systems, controls, processes and information ows Separated our Audit and Risk Committee, established a Governance Committee and enhanced the remit of the Nurturing the Groups corporate culture, values and Here Brand and Values Committee for good brand promise as the Group continues to grow Enhanced the linkages between the Board and Continue to focus on dynamic yet structured Board, itscommittees committee and senior executive succession planning Commissioned an independent survey to gauge Continue to balance formal and informal opportunities to investorperceptions focus on key strategic opportunities and risk factors Made space for deeper and broader discussions on key strategic issues Created more informal opportunities for the Board to discuss strategic issues Oversight of a succesful rights issue Undertook an externally facilitated Board  What has our Board done during The full schedule of matters reserved for the Who is on our Board?
Board together with the board committees We have 16 members on the Board: the The Board is accountable for ensuring that, terms of reference are available on Chairman, five executive directors and 10 as a collective body, it has the appropriate www.
A list of the skills, knowledge and experience to individual directors and their biographies perform its role effectively.
It provides Given the fast-changing external are set out on pages 84 to 86.
Details of leadership through oversight, review and environment and volatile markets, the board committee membership are set out by providing guidance whilst setting the Board understands the importance of on page 95 of this report.
remaining cognisant of changes in the regulatory and political environment.
The We welcomed Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE Over the year, amongst other things, the Board is aware that our strategic andRichard Delbridge as independent Board has been engaged with overseeing performance and management of risk is non-executive directors on 1 January the review and execution of our clearly closely linked to the prevailing economic 2010, and Simon Lowth as an independent dened strategy and in probing its and market conditions.
The executive team non-executive director with effect from underlying assumptions.
The Group is ensures that the non-executive directors 1May 2010. managed through a matrix of businesses, receive comprehensive intelligence on the functions and geographies.
The Board has economic and competitive landscape.
We believe that it is important to have a been engaged in a continuous strategic broad representation of executive directors dialogue and undertaken reviews through During 2010 we estimate that each on the Board and in this context we each of the three lenses of the matrix.
It is non-executive director spent at least 30 welcomed Jaspal Bindra with effect from not possible to cover all areas in this report.
days on Board related duties and for those 1 January 2010.
He forms part of Standard In addition to regular business reviews, from who sat on multiple committees up to 100 Chartereds strong executive management a geographic perspective, the Boards days or more.
We believe that the quality of the strategic reviews included Greater China, executive management is one of the Korea, sub-Saharan Africa, India, the United Our non-executive directors travel biggest drivers of long-term value creation Arab Emirates, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
The extensively and have the opportunity to for shareholders.
The Board thanks Gareth Bullock who stepped down from being an Board has also considered and approved validate the strategy and gain an on the executive director on 1 May 2010. our capital and liquidity management plan, ground understanding of the opportunities and the Groups risk appetite statement in and risks that we face, engage with local Our Board reects diversity in terms of addition to considering people, talent, management and country leaders whilst both gender and ethnic background, and is culture and succession planning matters.
acting as ambassadors for Standard regularly refreshed.
The average length of Deeper-dive discussions have focused on Chartered in meetings with customers tenure is 4.2 years.
Five new directors have the potential impact of regulatory change and regulators.
been appointed over the last two years.
We for our strategy and structure: continued are mindful of the need to balance the capital and liquidity strength: the balance composition of our Board and its and disciplines applied to organic and committees, drawing upon the in-depth inorganic growth opportunities: and a knowledge and experience held by our relentless focus on the importance of our longer serving directors whilst embracing values and culture as the Group continues the fresh perspectives offered by more to grow.
recent joiners to the Board.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 89 Corporate governance Snapshot of overseas trips Whilst in Beijing, the Board visited the Beijing branch, and hosted a dinner attended by more than 30distinguished guests from the Chinese government, the British Embassy and some of our key clients.
40 members of staff attended a lunch with the Board.
In Tianjin, Rudy Markham and Oliver Stocken attended the opening of our 59th sub-branch in China.
Ruth Markland had a factory tour of Zongshen Group, one of the top motorcycle manufacturers in China, and participated in an environmental education programme together with 10 employee volunteers from our Chongqing branch.
The strategic away sessions held in Korea There are also open invitations to attend and Richard Delbridge both visited our over three days presented a great key management committee meetings shared service centres in Chennai and opportunity for strategic reection affording andsenior leadership team gatherings.
Kuala Lumpur during the year.
the Board sufficient time to examine Webelieve that it is beneficial for most of In total, our non-executive directors emerging risks and opportunities in detail.
these visits to be unsupervised and conducted 40 visits to overseas markets This provided a useful forum for non-executive directors are actively during the year.
This was increased from 23 comprehensive consultation, debate and encouraged to engage with a broad array visits the previous year and is a testimony of challenge.
In 2010, in addition to ofemployees, clients customers, regulators their commitment levels.
concentrating on the strategic review in this and the wider communities they visit.
three-day session, a mix of formal and How do we ensure that we have an informal strategic conversations were held For example, Jamie Dundas travelled to effective Board?
throughout the year so that directors could Mumbai and Delhi with the British Deputy A core component of Standard Chartered engage even more deeply with key High Commissioner in Mumbai to discuss isour open, accessible and transparent opportunities, risks and issues.
Jamie also met with culture where dialogue and constructive local senior management and employees at challenge is actively encouraged and a local branch in Mumbai: met small and embraced.
In addition to these qualities, medium-sized enterprises SMEs and well organised internal processes are Private Bank clients in addition to receiving inplace to maximise the value of the an update and witnessing first hand our Boardsstrategic contribution.
On a trip to include the use of twelve-month rolling Hong Kong and Shenzhen, Val Gooding agendas, away days and carefully visited branches and a call centre, attended structured Board agendas.
a presentation on our branding, marketing and customer service strategy, and met with senior management.
Rudy Markham Visits made to our markets by non-executive directors in 2010 and 2009 Outer Mongolia 1 China 10 China 1 Hong Kong USA 4 Lebanon 1 Hong Kong 1 South Korea 2 Qatar 10 India 1 Taiwan 5 UAE 1 Malaysia Ghana Nigeria 7 2 1 1 Indonesia Malaysia 1 Singapore 1 7 Indonesia Singapore 1 5 2009 2010 90 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Agricultural Bank of China presentation Rudy Markham and Oliver Stocken visit the Pottery workshops with HIV affected children and signing ceremony construction site of our new building in Tianjin 20 children from Henan beneciaries of our long-term In 2010, Standard Chartered formed a strategic partnership partner, Chi Hong foundation had the opportunity to with the Agricultural Bank of China and became a cornerstone participate in a pottery workshop with our Board investor in their initial public offering in Hong Kong How does the Board ensure that regard shareholders is a key strength and the To ensure that our non-executive directors is given to customers, shareholders, Board will continue to nurture this.
There maintain the requisite knowledge and regulators, communities and other iswidespread support for our strategy, and understanding to enable them to challenge stakeholders?
its execution: no concerns were effectively, they are provided with a Customers and clients expressedregarding our corporate personalised approach to induction, training The Boards identication of new markets governance practices.
Each non-executive and geographies relies on an understanding Standard Chartered as having performed director agrees an annual individualised of current and future customer needs, through the crisis.
Responses to the engagement plan with our Chairman.
These behavioural changes and trends and an surveycredited management for the way plans are dynamic in nature and are assessment of business opportunities.
Our inwhich the strategy was executed so reviewed regularly.
They ensure each corporate culture is client customer focused, successfully despite the challenging non-executive director receives the putting them at the heart of our strategy economic environment.
appropriate support to enhance their and focus.
For example, throughout the effectiveness.
It also means that year the Board reviewed the Groups Meetings with major shareholders non-executive directors are clear about the strategy regarding key client segments We aim for the highest standards of expectations placed upon them regarding such as Local Corporates and SMEs.
Our corporate governance, and in pursuit of this continued development.
The engagement open approach offers non-executive objective, follow an approach that complies plans provide each non-executive director directors a better understanding of how our with all provisions of the UK Financial with key development brieng sessions and strategy is being communicated throughout Reporting Councils UK Corporate deeper dives into relevant topics.
Standard Chartered, while providing Governance Code, the Code and with valuable opportunities to meet and build Appendix 14 of the Hong Kong Listing We believe that it is vital that non-executive relationships with the wider senior Rules, save one exception: under the code, director development is tailored to the leadership including potential successors all non-executive directors are formally specic issues affecting Standard tothe Board.
required to meet with major shareholders Chartered so that the development is of as part of their induction programmes.
Our high quality, relevance and value.
Directors Investors Board received regular updates on the receive briengs from our senior executives, In 2010 an independent survey was views of our institutional shareholders and and sessions are arranged with our advisors.
For example, as described in the undertaken to gauge investor perceptions stakeholders including a presentation from Board Risk Committee report, Jamie of Standard Chartered.
In order to identify four institutional shareholders on their views Dundas and other members of the newly areas of strength, weakness, changes in of the Company as an investment.
Our formed Committee participated in a wide opinion or areas of misunderstanding, Board openly seeks the views of our array of brieng sessions and engagements investors were asked for their views in a shareholders and during the year, the with risk professionals to ensure that they number of areas including strategy, Chairman, Group Chief Executive and were fully equipped to full their new roles in management, capital liquidity and risk, Group Finance Director met with six the Board Risk Committee.
corporate and social responsibility and investors from our top 20 investors.
A total of 23 Our non-executive directors are fully investors took part in the survey Our Remuneration Committee is strongly supported by our Corporate Secretariat representing 42.5 per cent of our issued supportive of an ongoing, open dialogue team.
The team provides advice and share capital at the time.
The survey found and regularly communicates with a variety guidance as well as access to additional that our shareholders hold Standard of stakeholders.
Throughout the year the sources ofinformation and plays a key role Chartered in high regard and that they Committee Chairman, Ruth Markland, in assisting and enabling the non-executive consider us to be a high quality company actively engaged with external bodies such directors to undertake their engagement with a strong management team who take as institutional investors, regulators and plans and to monitor progress.
In addition a conservative approach to running the other advisory bodies.
Over the last 18 our non-executive directors can take business.
The Groups high performance is months she has corresponded and met independent professional advice at the attributed to a combination of the diverse with our primary regulator, the Financial expense of Standard Chartered in nature of our business and the excellent Services Authority, on a number of furtherance of their duties.
operational control exercised by occasions regarding the recent changes in management in the areas of risk, liquidity remuneration regulations.
In addition, she and capital.
Our Board recognises that the has met with institutional investors relationship that we enjoy with our regarding proposed discretionary share www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 91 Corporate governance Boardroom Reviews summary of the five major strengths demonstrated by the Board The quality of the The Boards focus on the The quality of The culture and The Boards processes Boards strategic external environment the executive diligence of the and support contribution and the management of team Board inuential stakeholders The Board demonstrates This is evidenced The Board This is evidenced by the provision This is demonstrated this by effective by the high levels demonstrated this of high quality information, well by ongoing strategic engagement with of understanding by an open and structured agendas and a discussions regulatory and political and knowledge of transparent professional and well resourced throughout the year, change, the competitive the business that approach, high secretariat team.
and an effective landscape, attention to exist, attention to levels of strategy board customers, and corporate culture non-executive As part of the review, the directors session.
The Board management of and leadership, director identied two main themes that has strategic clarity shareholders.
and alignment engagement, warranted further greater visibility and there is with the long-term oversight and by the Board going forward: rstly, continuous strategic objectives of the diligence, the importance of ensuring that the dialogue throughout business.
appropriate levels right balance is maintained in the year in of formality, and pursuing business growth with conjunction with a the leadership of support by the various systems, rolling agenda and the Chairman.
controls, processes, information deep dives into complex business ows and corporate culture: and areas.
secondly, the need to continue to focus upon board and executive succession planning.
independent external evaluation covered a perspective was considered specically.
More detail can be variety of aspects associated with board The Chairman reported the outcome of found in the Directors remuneration report effectiveness and was conducted through these discussions to the Nomination on pages 106 to 125. the use of condential interviews with all 16 Committee, which used this information as directors and the review of selected part of its consideration leading to John Peace and the executive team ensure papers.
Following the review, Dr Long, of recommending to the Board the re-election that the Board is aligned with the long-term Boardroom Review, attended a Board of all directors at our Annual General interests of shareholders through the use of session to stimulate a discussion on the Meeting.
both formal and informal channels of observations arising fromthe evaluation.
There is regular feedback a result an action plan to address the key Part of Rudy Markhams role as Senior to the Board on any issues or concerns that findings has beenformulated.
Independent Director is to facilitate a review have been raised by shareholders.
He obtained Following any market announcements such A summary of the key observations feedback from every Board member as as our results, pre-close and interim emerging from the 2010 evaluation and partof this process.
As a result it was management statements any significant theaction to be taken is included in the concluded that John has the unanimous shareholder feedback is shared with table on page 93 together with a further support of the Board for his leadership theBoard.
update on the observations arising from ofthe Board.
His effectiveness was also the2009 evaluation.
notedas a strength in the externally What were the findings of our facilitated board effectiveness evaluation.
independent externally facilitated Board Individual director and Chairman The Board drew great encouragement effectiveness evaluation?
effectiveness reviews fromthe progress made by the Group Reviewing effectiveness is an ongoing In addition to the review of the Boards during the year, noting that Johns process with adjustments continuously effectiveness, each individual director contribution to this has been significant.
In 2009 we conducted an discussed his or her self assessment with Inparticular, the Board welcomed the intensive internally facilitated corporate the Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
These opportunities John has created for governance review.
This took into account discussions included details of time informaland reective discussion on emerging governance trends arising from commitment including where relevant the issuesof longer-term signicance.
the Walker and the UK Financial Reporting potential impact of outside interests held by Council reviews and resulted in many of the each non-executive director, engagement In addition to attending the overseas Board Board composition and committee changes outlined in this report.
In 2010 we plan implementation and other broader meetings in Seoul and Beijing, John Peace commissioned an independent external contributions to the Board.
Outlines for visited Singapore and Shanghai twice: board effectiveness facilitator Boardroom future engagement plans were covered Hong Kong, Taiwan, Bahrain, India, and Review to assist our Board to evaluate its providing a guideline for the activities that theUSA.
The Board recognised this effectiveness.
The evaluation was designed every non-executive director intends to external representation as evidence of to assess the quality of the Boards decision undertake over the next 12 to 18 months in Johns commitment to Standard Chartered.
making and debate, its overall contribution order to continue to build on their to, and impact on, the long-term health and understanding of our business.
In relation to success of the Company, and its those directors with longer tenure, preparation for future challenges.
This continued independence of mindset and 92 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Summary of some of the observations arising and actions taken as a result of the Boards effectiveness review 2010 2009 Observations Actions taken to be taken Observations Actions taken Our Board has been strengthened Looking forward, it was The Board will continue to receive Priorities included with the appointment of three observed that it is regular updates from management strengthening the independent non-executive directors important to ensure that viaits committees regarding the Board through the and one executive director.
We have we continue to maintain development of systems, controls, appointment of added diversity and enhanced skills the right balance in processes and information ows additional directors with the addition of Simon Lowth, pursuing business andthe protection of our and enhancing the who is a serving chief financial growth supported by the corporateculture.
diversity of our officer: Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE, a various systems, Boardthrough theappointment Korean national and a climate controls, processes and ofadirector from change expert with regulatory and information ows and to ourfootprint.
government relations: and Richard nurture our corporate Delbridge who has deep banking culture as we grow.
Jaspal Bindra was appointed executive director, bringing wide-ranging international experience to the Board.
There is a need to We will continue to develop our Overseas Board Two overseas Board meetings continue to focus upon structured approach to succession meetings and the wereheld in Seoul and Beijing in Board and executive planning whilst being mindful of introduction of more 2010.
thecomplexities of balancing individualised plans introduced in 2009 have board size with board diversity and engagement plans, beenenhanced and more the skills and experience required brieng sessions and opportunities have been provided on ourBoard.
informal lunches and forthe Board tomeet outside formal dinners were meetings atinformal dinners and considered important other gatherings.
and needed to continue as they provide the opportunity for the Board to meet with customers, employees and the communities in which we do business.
There is a need to We have introduced one-page More focus on the In March 2010 we separated the balance conciseness of outlines for all corestrategic review effectiveness and Audit and Risk Committee into two information provided to papers.
Theseprovide a roadmap structure of board separate committees.
The the Board and the for the issues discussed in more committees and the Sustainability and Responsibility Groups open culture depth inthe body of the papers.
interaction of these Committee was renamed the Brand where executives want Early feedback on this initiative has with the full Board.
and Values Committee and has an Board members to have beenpositive.
A Governance open access Committee has been created.
acknowledged that following the separation of the board committees, a key challenge would be to ensure that the linkages between the Board and its committees remained effective.
This has been achieved byhaving common committee members, formal updates to the Board and more informal briengs from the committee chairmen throughout the course of 2010.
All ofthese board committees have enhanced the interaction between the Board and its committees.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 93 Corporate governance Rudy Markham has been on the Board for Board meetings and attendance We have increased the number of 10 years and as a result, his continued It is our Boards responsibility to ensure scheduled Board meetings from eight independence has been the subject of thatthe Group is governed properly to 10.
Through this, combined with the particular scrutiny.
The Nomination andprudently: responsibilities and delegation of more matters to the board Committee considered this point in detail.
complexities are rising and the amount of committees and the scheduling of more Rudy continues to demonstrate excellent time devoted by non-executive directors in informal gatherings such as lunches and stewardship as Senior Independent Director order to full their obligations has increased.
dinners, the Board has made space to and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
As a The time commitment for non-executive enable more and deeper reection on result of his length of service and directors, as illustrated by the engagement keystrategic issues.
commitment, he provides an in-depth plans, is high and encourages the Board knowledge of the Group that is invaluable to tospend time on overseas visits.
This External directorships the Board, the Audit Committee, the Board increases and contextualises levels of The Boards executive directors are Risk Committee, the Governance directors local knowledge and permitted to hold only one non-executive Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of the executive directors other It was concluded that Rudy Markham A careful balance of formal and informal directorshipscan be found in their displays independence of thought and meetings throughout the year exists and biographies on pages 84 to 86. judgment habitually and this has not there is an atmosphere of friendship and diminished over the period of his tenure.
This creates an environment that We closely monitor the outside business encourages challenge, advice seeking, interests of the non-executive directors.
During 2010, the Board has experienced a information sharing, innovative thinking and Before taking on an additional role, both number of changes with the new committee openness of communication.
executive and non-executive directors structure and the appointment of three new will confirm that no conict arises from independent non-executive directors.
This Number of Board meetings held in 2010 that role and provide assurance that demonstrates the Groups commitment to the appointment will have no adverse Scheduled Ad hoc regularly refreshing the composition of the impact on their ability to continue to full Board as required by the UK Corporate Number of meetings their role as Board member.
Committee in 2010 4 Governance Code, and, as a result, chairmen are particularly mindful of retaining the continuity and experience theirobligations.
Whenever required J W Peace Chairman 10 10 4 4 duringthe year, non-executive directors thatRudy Markham demonstrates is P A Sands 10 10 4 4 have consistently demonstrated their believed to be in shareholders best abilityto provide any additional time interests at this time.
R H Meddings 10 10 4 4 The Nomination Committee has also S P Bertamini 10 10 4 4 Re-election of directors considered the fact that Rudy Markham Traditionally, non-executive directors were is a non-executive director on the board J S Bindra 10 10 4 4 initially appointed for a three-year term.
of Astra Zeneca PLC whilst Simon Lowth 1 G R Bullock 4 4 0 0 Under the 2008 edition of the Combined is an executive director at the same R Delbridge 9 10 3 4 Code now the UK Corporate Governance company.
We do not believe that this Code, anyone who was proposed for creates a cross-directorship that in any J F T Dundas 10 10 4 4 re-appointment for more than two way impacts upon the independence of V F Gooding 10 10 3 4 consecutive three-year periods should be either director.
subject to particularly rigorous review.
Dr Han Seung-soo 9 10 2 4 Jamie Dundas, Ruth Markland, Val Gooding In line with the UK Corporate Governance 2 S J Lowth 5 5 4 4 and Paul Skinner are all in their third Code, we will propose all directors for R Markland 10 10 3 4 three-year term on the Board.
The re-election at the Companys Annual Chairman took this into consideration when General Meeting.
It is our belief that this will J G H Paynter 9 10 4 4 reviewing their performance and not have any adverse impact on directors A M G Rees 10 10 4 4 effectiveness.
He provided feedback from ability to focus on the long-term success of P D Skinner 10 10 4 4 these reviews to the Nomination the Company.
It was observed that, O H J Stocken 10 10 4 4 particularly in the case of the Committee 1 Stepped down on 1 May 2010 chairmen, there is a positive benefit to 2 Appointed 1 May 2010 having non-executive directors with a deep and long-standing knowledge of the Group in these roles.
94 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Group board committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Primary committees Enabling committees Audit Board Risk Brand and Values Remuneration Nomination Governance Oversight and Oversight and previously Oversight and Oversight and Oversight of reviewof financial, review of Sustainability review of review of board overallboard effectiveness and audit and internal fundamental and Responsibility remuneration, and executive governance issues control issues prudential risks share plans and succession including credit, Oversight and other incentives market, capital review of brand andliquidity positioning, treating customers fairly, reputational risk, ethics and sustainability issues How have we ensured that appropriate Board committees 2010.
This was facilitated by the Corporate linkages exist between our Board, our As a result of our 2009 internal governance Secretariat.
It involved each director Committees and our management review, in March 2010 we re-congured our completing a questionnaire providing committees?
This took the form of: feedback on each committees We have ensured that there is some effectiveness.
This feedback was then The separation of the Audit and Risk common membership across our discussed at each committee with an Committee into two committees one committees.
For example the Chairmen of action plan being formulated for each.
covering financial, internal controls and the Audit and Board Risk Committees sit Details of the findings of the reviews can be compliance the Audit Committee and on each others committee and there are found in the individual committee reports.
the other covering risk issues the Board two other common members.
There is also Risk Committee some common membership between the The feedback that has been provided as Board Risk Committee and the An enhanced remit and new name for the part of the 2010 board committee Remuneration Committee.
This is important Sustainability and Responsibility effectiveness review confirms that the to ensure there are no gaps between the Committee becoming the Brand and re-conguration has further enhanced the remit of the various committees or Values Committee Boards effectiveness and allowed more unnecessary duplication.
In addition to the time to be spent on strategic issues.
Further The formation of a Governance minutes of committee meetings being sent details concerning the activities of each Committee committee are provided in the report of to the Board, a framework has been put in each committee on pages 96 to 105. place where committee chairs provide Given the recent re-conguration of the regular updates to the Board on the work of Board committees, we decided to conduct the committee.
This is supplemented by a internally facilitated effectiveness reviews in number of more informal briengs on the topics covered by various committees.
Current membership of the board committees Audit Brand and Values Governance Nomination Remuneration Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee R Delbridge O O J F T Dundas OO O O V F Gooding OO Dr Han Seung-soo O S J Lowth R H P Markham O OO O R Markland OO O O J G H Paynter O O J W Peace O OO O P A Sands OOO P D Skinner O OO O O H J Stocken O O Chairman O Member Copies of each board committees terms of reference can be found on our website.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 95 Corporate governance knowledgeand experience that has controls and accounting policy, the contributed to the quality of the discussions performance and benchmarking of the held at Committee meetings and the Group Internal Audit function and the Committees effectiveness.
development and resourcing of the Group Compliance function.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, I can confirm that information that the Committee Over the course of the year, the demands has received has been balanced, on the Audit Committee have increased, as appropriate and timely and has enabled the have the expectations of our regulator, the Committee to provide effective oversight of Financial Services Authority FSA.
The the Groups key financial reporting risks and Committees effectiveness is definitely internal controls.
enhanced through the existence of Dear Shareholder synergies in membership.
For instance, Jamie Dundas is both a member of the During 2010, the Audit Committee has Audit Committee and Chairman of the deepened its focus on internal controls, Board Risk Committee, Ruth Markland is Chairman and John Paynter is a member of compliance and assurance and internal the Remuneration Committee.
This has been made synergies have ensured that the interplay of possible by the separation of the Audit and Rudy Markham Chairman of the Audit Committee risk, remuneration and the financial Risk Committee into two Committees.
Part outcome are considered from different of the rationale for the separation was the perspectives but result in a consistent view desire to dedicate more time to the and treatment of performance within the consideration of risk related issues but it Group.
In 2010 Richard Delbridge joined the has also enabled the Audit Committee to Committee, bringing with him deep banking intensify its focus on reviewing financial Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 13245 Established separate Audit andRisk Continue to monitor changes in the Committees and ensured thatthere external regulatory environment to were no unnecessary duplications ensure that we continue to have between these committees or appropriate financial, compliance and significant gaps internal controls in place Reviewed the potential implications of Continue to fully evaluate and take into the Bribery Act and the Foreign account the risks and uncertainties Account Tax Compliance Act when considering budgets and forecasts that support going concern Reviewed and modied the Audit and and impairment assessments the Compliance risk radar Further evolve the Committees remit Increased focus on compliance and and effectiveness following the Audit Committee assurance resources separation from the Board Risk Strengthened the oversight of Committee in March 2010 Members workundertaken by the Group Continue to consider emerging best 1 Scheduled Ad Hoc statutoryauditor practice recommendations for enhancing the Committee Reviewed Group Internal Audits Number of meetings in 2010 7 1 compliance with the Institute of Internal Continue to hold deeper-dive half-day Auditors Standards R H P Markham sessions on key strategic issues Chairman 5 7 7 1 1 In conjunction with the Board Risk Continue to ensure that we are R Delbridge 2 7 7 1 1 Committee, reviewed the Groups satisfied that our Group statutory PillarIIIdisclosures J F T Dundas 1 7 7 1 1 auditor has allocated sufficient additional and experienced resources Reviewed the Indian Depository R Markland 4 7 7 1 1 to address heightened risks Receipts Prospectus J G H Paynter 3 6 7 1 1 Continue to ensure that our Group Conducted deeper-dive half-day 1 Two of the scheduled meetings were as the joint Internal Audit and Group Compliance sessions on key operational and Audit and Risk Committee prior to the separation of and Assurance functions have the two committees in March 2010 controlissues adequate experienced resource to Considered Customer Due Diligence, deliver on their audit and compliance Anti-Money Laundering processes plans andprocedures and the operational Ensure that new International Financial control environment of our Private Reporting Standards are implemented Banking business 96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance We conducted a review of the performance Towards the end of the year, the Committee What has the Committees role and and effectiveness of KPMG Audit Plc which considered the proposal to move the focus been in 2010 and how has it aided included an assessment of its Groups local internal audit and assurance the Board with the delivery of its independence and objectivity.
As in from our Group Compliance and Assurance strategy?
previous years, the review was performed function to Group Internal Audit.
This Financial reporting jointly by Group Internal Audit and Group became effective from 1February 2011.
We have increased our focus on the Finance by way of a structured Part of the rationale behind this realignment management of financial positions and questionnaire.
The questionnaire was sent was as a result ofthe success of the Rules accounting issues, considered the to country Chief Financial Ofcers, Based Assurance team indriving discipline provisionof non-audit services by the members of our Finance Leadership Team, throughout the Group.
This has allowed the Group statutory auditor and those country Chief Executive Ofcers and our Assurance function toplace more focus on non-audit services provided by other Business Leadership Team covering all building control effectiveness reviews that auditing rms, details of which can be ofour major markets.
The questionnaire are closer toaudit type work, so it was found in note 8 to the financial statements considered KPMG Audit Plcs value-add to natural to consider how the activities of the and in our reviews of issues that have the Group, the level of engagement, the two functions could be combined to arisen, distinguished between those that ability to demonstrate an understanding .
are business related versus process related.
ofStandard Chartered and our risk environment, and the demonstration In addition, regulators in many of our Over the course of 2010, the Committee ofappreciation of the issues faced by countries of operation have increased their has discussed and sought assurance that countryChief Executive Ofcers, Chief level of supervision, with a more local focus, the effects on our business of the continued Financial Ofcers and Business Heads leading to specic challenges over the volatility in financial markets and the together with their objectivity, perceived independence of local audit and reduced supply of credit are being closely independence and effectiveness.
We are satisfied that we have considered for disclosure all material The principal nding was that KPMG Audit As a result of this initiative, the Committee is relevant issues that have concerned Plc is considered to be effective, objective comfortable that the independence management during the year.
and independent in its role as Group oftheGroup Internal Audit function has statutory auditor.
In 2010 the Group been reinforced.
We have promoted a culture of compliance statutory audit partner was rotated and as a and financial reporting integrity throughout the year and have reviewed areas identied Committee we are satisfied with the level of Independent review of Group Internal by Group Internal Audit and Compliance as service that has been maintained through Audit having control issues.
this change together with the style of As a Committee we monitored and contribution to Committee meetings assessed the role and effectiveness of our As part of our discussions concerning the and the evident independence of Group Internal Audit function.
We reviewed financial statements we have considered KPMG Audit Plc.
Group Internal Audits charter and the and are comfortable that our audited findings of an independent review of Group financial statements describe fairly all of the In addition, given the current complexity of Internal Audits compliance with the Institute key judgments about the application of our operating environment, the shifting of Internal Auditors Standards.
The findings accounting policies and the estimation regulatory landscape and the continuing of the review were that the Group Internal uncertainties inherent in the value of assets demands of embedding International Audit fully complies with the Institute of and liabilities.
Financial Reporting Standards and Basel II Internal Auditor Standards and standards have made continuity of the demonstrates good industry practice.
In the Group statutory auditor Group statutory auditor an important factor.
spirit of continuous improvement During 2010, we strengthened our oversight As a result, the Committee recommended enhancements have been made to Group of the work undertaken by the Group to the Board the re-appointment of Internal Audits existing methodology statutory auditor KPMG Audit Plc, in terms KPMG Audit Plc as Group statutory auditor.
including its reporting format in order to of the quality of the reports made to the highlight priorities and the changing risk Committee, and Rudy Markham, Jamie Group Internal Audit and Group prole of the business where needed.
Dundas and Ruth Markland have met with Compliance and Assurance local audit partners in Korea, China and We have reviewed the resourcing and Control environment Hong Kong.
proposed work plans for both the Group Our activities included the consideration of Internal Audit and the Group Compliance reports in respect of the control We have discussed with KPMG Audit Plc and Assurance functions and are satisfied environment in a number of our markets.
the business and financial risks and have that both the work plans and resources are From time to time the Committee exercises sought assurance that these risks have appropriate in terms of proposed areas of its freedom to invite senior executives and been properly addressed in the audit focus and the expertise and skill that exist management from across the Group to strategy and plan that have been reviewed within both functions given the current discuss developments and issues that by the Committee.
We are satisfied that regulatory environment.
The way in which havearisen in their jurisdiction.
In 2010, KPMG Audit Plc has allocated sufficient the findings of the Group Compliance and these included the President Director of additional and experienced resources to Assurance function have been presented to Permata Bank a consortium of Standard address heightened risks.
We have sought the Committee has evolved over the year Chartered Bank and Astra International in assurance and are comfortable that no resulting in greater clarity of the issues and Indonesia, the Vice Chairman of Standard undue pressure has been asserted on swifter resolution.
The Committee is Chartered Korea Limited and the new thelevel of audit fees so as to ensure that conscious of the higher level of regulatory ChiefExecutive Ofce of Standard there is no risk to audit work being scrutiny that has emerged across the world Chartered Bank Pakistan Limited.
and as a result, the Committee has enhanced its focus on compliance During the year, we approved the breaches, their causes and managements re-appointment, remuneration and reaction to them.
engagement letter of KPMG Audit Plc.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 97 Corporate governance What were the findings of the Committee One of the findings of our 2010 committee Interaction with management and Group effectiveness review?
effectiveness review was that the statutory auditors In conjunction with the overall board Committees size and composition are Our Committee Chairman, Rudy Markham, effectiveness evaluation, an internal appropriate and that the Committee held separate meetings with the Group committee effectiveness review was also members possess the necessary Statutory auditor and the Group Heads of conducted.
The Committee feels that it is accounting, financial, legal, banking and our internal audit, compliance, risk and legal effective in that it covered the areas of its investment knowledge and skills that functions to discuss matters specically terms of reference thoroughly with the right areneeded.
within their areas of responsibility.
Rudy balance between oversight and challenge.
Markham, Jamie Dundas and Ruth Committee papers are of the highest quality Our Committee members have detailed and Markland also met separately and privately and strike a balance between brevity and relevant experience.
Details of their with the FSA.
However, it was acknowledged that experience can be found in their as a result of the Audit and Board Risk biographies on pages 84 to 86.
All of the The Committee meets separately with our Committees being separated in 2010 there Committees members are independent.
Group statutory auditor and the Group is a need to continue to ensure that the risk The Board is satisfied that Rudy Markham Finance Director and the Head of Group of duplication or gaps are managed as Chairman has recent and relevant Internal Audit, allowing members to discuss appropriately, and a need to continue to financial experience and that all other freely matters relating to the auditors remit focus on forward looking challenges on Committee members have broad and issues arising from the audit.
TheCommittee felt experience and knowledge of financial Committees remit also includes the that it benefited from the deeper-dive reporting and international businesses.
The consideration of the appointment, half-day sessions and thatthe opportunities Board and the Committee members believe resignation or removal of our Head of for these sessions should increase.
As a that Rudy Markham is a highly effective Group Internal Audit.
result the number ofthese sessions has chairman who reacts with balance to issues been increased to three in 2011. and ensures that all Committee members Ongoing training and development are included in discussions.
In addition to other ongoing training and What qualities do the members bring to development activities in each the Committee?
non-executive directors engagement or In 2009, the committee effectiveness review induction plan, the Committee attended a suggested that an additional committee half-day informal meeting in May to consider the strategic oversight and member was required who would bring infrastructure and controls of equities and fresh input to complement what was collateral management already in existence and that more informal sessions with internal audit would be useful.
A second half-day informal meeting was In response to these observations, Richard held in November to consider core banking Delbridge was appointed to the Committee systems and information security and with effect from 1 January 2010.
Richard technology investment programmes and has been the group comptroller and the progress that had been made in these managing director of JPMorgans London areas.
All non-executive directors were ofces, group finance director at HSBC invited to these sessions.
Holdings plc and group chief financial officer of National Westminster Bank Plc.
Speaking Up Policy Richard brings with him a wealth of financial The Committee also reviewed the Groups experience as part of a wide-ranging Speaking Up Policy, which allows our banking career.
The already existing employees to raise, in confidence, any members of the Committee possess a concerns that they may have about balanced mix of legal, financial and banking possible improprieties in matters of financial professional experience combined with reporting or other areas.
The Committee complementary business experience reviewed these arrangements and andskills.
ensured that any matters of concern were investigated appropriately.
98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance The Committees remit includes oversight of see the positive impact our brand has had the Groups brand positioning, reputational on customers, employees and other risk, client customer-focused strategies stakeholders.
These investments have including Treating Customers Fairly, further strengthened the Groups public standing and reputation across the regulatory relationships, sustainability geographical areas in which we operate.
issues and our culture and values.
These issues are rightly seen as key drivers of the On behalf of the Committee I can confirm long-term success of the Group and that we receive a sufficient and transparent potential sources of business and ow of good-quality information from the competitive advantage.
During a period of relevant executive teams to enable us to rapid growth it is also important that the discharge our responsibilities on behalf of Dear Shareholder underlying strength of the Groups culture the Board.
Recognising the increasing importance to the Groups business of its reputation and I am pleased to report that the Committee values, as seen by all external stakeholders made a positive start to its work in 2010 and and encapsulated in our brand, the Brand has established clear priorities for 2011. and Values Committee was established in During 2010, the Group has made March 2010. significant investments in its Here for good brand positioning.
It is very encouraging to Paul Skinner Chairman of the Brand and Values Committee Highlights Our priorities in 2011 132456 Reviewed our brand, ensuring there are Secure continued value from our clear strategies in place to increase its brand investment programmes value, focusing on our Here for good Consolidate our Here for good campaign and the development of our brand promise across the Group Liverpool Football Club sponsorship Conduct an annual review of Conducted a review of the governance reputational risks including of brand implementation to ensure that processes and outcomes, in line it is consistent and t for purpose with the Group Risk Appetite Conducted a review of the reputational Statement, while regularly tracking risk management processes to ensure shifts in reputational risk they are effective and transparent Provide oversight on the Reviewed Wholesale and Consumer implementation of our client-focused Brand and Values Bankings client-focused strategies strategy in Wholesale Banking and against our Here for good the delivery of our customer-focused Committee Members brand promise strategy in Consumer Banking against our Here for good 1 Conducted a robust review of our Scheduled brand promise approach to Treating Customers Fairly Number of to ensure that it is embedded within Continue to ensure that the Group meetings in 2010 4 the Wholesale Banking and Consumer can demonstrate how we are P D Skinner Chairman 3 4 4 Banking strategies Treating Customers Fairly J F T Dundas 1 4 4 Conducted a review of the Groups Oversee the Groups approach to V F Gooding 5 4 4 approach to sustainability maintaining business ethics Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE 6 3 4 Conducted a strategic overview of the Continue to review our Groups environmental impact environmental strategy and J W Peace 4 4 4 processes for measuring and Reviewed the community investment P A Sands 2 4 4 monitoring our environmental impact programmes undertaken in 2010, 1 The final meeting of the Sustainability and including the developments in Conduct a full review of the Responsibility Commitee, the precursor to the employee volunteering throughout community investment strategy and Brand and Values Committee, was held on 11 February 2010 and has not been included in this the year monitor expenditure against the number as the Committee membership changed plans on a bi-annual basis Reviewed managements efforts over when the Sustainability and Responsibility Committee transitioned into the Brand and Values the last two years to reinforce and Ensure that we maintain and Committee and the meeting attendance number sustain our culture and values develop our culture and values as would not be comparable the Group continues to grow Conducted a review of the current status and future plans in relation Oversee the progress of toemployee wellbeing and employeevolunteering diversity inclusion Reviewed our approach to our main government and regulatory relationships inmajor markets www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 99 Corporate governance We want to measure the positive and social Dr Han, KBE, joined the Committee in 2010, What has the Committees role and and economic impact on the communities and brings with him a strong background in focus been in 2010 and how has it aided where we operate.
As a result, we sustainability, climate change and the Board with the delivery of its commissioned an independent study of our governmental relationships, having been strategy?
impact in Ghana, to help us to understand special envoy of the UN Secretary-General Brand our contribution and how we can deepen on Climate Change.
The Committee has focused on ensuring it.
One of the highlights of thestudy that value is achieved from our Here for confirmed that our impact amounted to Peter Sands represents executive good campaign and our Liverpool Football $400 million of value-added in 2009, managements perspective in the Club sponsorship to ensure that brand equivalent to 2.6 per cent ofGhanas Committee discussions while John Peace awareness and value is increased over GrossDomestic Product.
Further details has extensive brand management and time.
The Committee has oversight of the can be found in ourseparate online retailexperience.
processes to ensure brand consistency Sustainability Review.
throughout the Group and intensify brand The Chairman of the Brand and Values governance, and has conducted regular Culture and values Committee, Paul Skinner, is also a member reviews of brand tracker data.
Looking As the Groups culture and values are of the Board Risk Committee, the forward, the Committee will continue to important sources of competitive Remuneration Committee and the review the direction of brand development, advantage, our role has been to oversee Nomination Committee, and as a result he aiming to grow the value of the brand.
theway the Group reinforces and nurtures can ensure that the relevant issues such as the culture and values and to challenge the approach to reputational risk are taken Reputational risk future priorities.
into account in these other committees.
On behalf of the Board, we have reviewed the Groups approach to managing Government and regulatory What were the findings of the Committee reputational risk in line with the Group Risk relationships effectiveness review?
The Committees view We conducted reviews of the Groups Our 2010 Committee effectiveness review was conveyed to the Board Risk approach to government and regulatory recognised that the Committee is operating Committee, whose remit is to consider the relations and we will continue to conduct an under enhanced terms of reference.
wider aspects of risk, which then fed into the Board discussion.
The common annual overview of our approach to Considerable time has been taken to membership of Paul Skinner and Jamie government and regulatory relationships in understand the context and history around Dundas on both Committees has ensured our major markets.
each of the key areas and this has provided an integrated co-ordinated approach in this a strong foundation for good quality important area.
We regularly review risks on In 2010, the Group was included in the discussions.
We feel that the right balance an existing and forward looking basis: 2010 Dow Jones Sustainability World Index has been struck between the Committees together with the actions that management for the first time, enabling us to achieve one size and composition, that a good start had are taking to mitigate these risks.
of our major sustainability objectives for been made, and that the Committee has 2010.
Also, we continued to be listed on the the potential to create value for the Group.
Client customer focus and Treating FTSE4Good and FTSE4Good Environment Customers Fairly Indexes as well as the 2010 Ethisphere There were four main actions arising from On behalf of the Board, we have provided Worlds Most Ethical Companies.
We won the Committee effectiveness review.
Firstly, oversight on the implementation of our the FT ArcelorMittal Boldness in Business to identify further opportunities where a client-focused strategy in Wholesale Award for Corporate Responsibility and wider group of senior business leaders can Banking and the delivery of our were named as a Top 8 Group in Managing contribute to the Committees discussion customer-focused strategy in Consumer Environmental, Social and Governance on relevant topics.
Secondly, to review and Banking.
We have robustly reviewed Issues by GS Sustain.
Further details can clarify any potential linkages that exist with managements approach to Treating be found in our separate online the other committees, for example, on the Customers Fairly to ensure that these Sustainability Review.
area of regulatory relationships to avoid principles are clearly embedded in the overlap.
Thirdly, to explore opportunities for Groups operations.
We will continue to What skills and experience do the Committee members to participate in conduct an annual overview of these members bring to the Committee?
Corporate Social Responsibility activities strategies in Wholesale Banking and Paul Skinner, the Committee Chairman has first hand whilst visiting overseas markets.
Consumer Banking to reinforce the Here for extensive experience of brand management Fourthly, to benchmark the Committees good brand promise.
Robust reviews of and sustainability issues from his prior activities against other global organisations Treating Customers Fairly will be carried out experience at Royal Dutch Shell and Rio to ensure that best practice is being by the Committee bi-annually.
He is also active in public sector work followed.
Sustainability Remuneration Committee Our role has covered policies falling within Both Jamie Dundas and Val Gooding were The role and focus of the Committee are set the Groups sustainability agenda.
This has members of the Sustainability and out in the directors remuneration report on included the Groups social, economic and Responsibility Committee the precursor to pages 106 to 125. environmental contribution.
We reviewed the Brand and Values Committee from its the Groups approach to building a inception.
Their membership of the sustainable business model: as well as its enhanced Committee has provided community investment programmes and continuity as the Committee has become have had oversight of the Groups embedded over the course of the year.
Val processes for measuring and monitoring its has extensive experience of customer environmental impact and the strategies facing, branded businesses.
100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance assurance to the Board that managements I can confirm that the information that the Committee has received has been approach to the management of risk is balanced, appropriate and timely and has appropriate.
enabled the Committee to full its remit.
During its first year, the Committee The Committee will continue to build on the considered a wide range of risk-related work carried out during 2010. matters and has overseen the restructure and enhancement of the risk information reporting system, and this is summarised in the report below.
The individual members of the Committee have benefited from a risk-related induction programme that was Dear Shareholder appropriate and relevant to the remit ofthe Jamie Dundas Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Committee and designed to complement The Board Risk Committee was established their existing skills and experience.
The in March 2010 following the separation of Committee has achieved good linkages the responsibilities of the former Audit and with the Board and other board Risk Committee.
Having a separate Board committees, and there has been excellent Risk Committee has enabled a deeper interaction with the Audit Committee to understanding and focus on key issues ensure there is no unnecessary duplication of work andresponsibilities.
whilst being mindful that the Committees remit is to have oversight and provide Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 1324 5 6 Established Committee in March 2010 Continue to build on the work carried out by the Committee in 2010 on the Developed the overall structure, Groups risk appetite, taking into content and design of the Risk account the macroeconomic and Information Report financial environment Reviewed and approved the Groups Optimise and enhance the Risk Management Framework Committees effectiveness through Conducted a deeper dive into the rening the reports it receives and subject of risk appetite and provided continuing to evolve our terms of specic recommendations to the reference and rolling agenda Board on risk appetite policy for 2011 Continue to conduct deep dives into Provided input to stress testing for selected areas of risk Board Risk specic areas of the Groups business, and reviewed the results Committee Members Held detailed discussions on the 1 Scheduled Ad Hoc framework for Internal Ratings Based modelling Number of meetings in 2010 7 2 Reviewed the due diligence processes and potential effect on Group Risk J F T Dundas Appetite of several inorganic Chairman 4 7 7 2 2 transactions considered in 2010 R Delbridge 6 7 7 2 2 Maintained oversight of the R H P Markham 3 7 7 1 2 mechanisms used to manage the R Markland 1 7 7 2 2 Groups balance sheet with a 2 particular focus on capital liquidity P D Skinner 5 5 7 2 2 and funding 2 O H J Stocken 2 5 7 1 2 Reviewed detailed plans for enhanced 1 Two of the scheduled meetings were as the joint management of operational risk Audit and Risk Committee prior to the separation of the two committees in March 2010 2 Became a Committee member following the separation of the Audit and Risk Committee www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 101 Corporate governance businesses, at country and client segment What qualities do members bring to the What has the Committees role and levels and using Group-wide scenarios.
focus been in 2010 and how has it aided well as noting the Groups overall stress The Committee members have a wide the Board with the delivery of its testing plan the Committee built an range of experience and bring a wealth of strategy?
understanding of how stress testing works detailed relevant knowledge and expertise The Committees role, as set out in its terms and noted the stress tests carried out to the Committees deliberations.
of reference, is to have oversight and to specically on Eurozone fragmentation.
challenge where appropriate managements Wealso reviewed the framework for In our view, it is essential that the approach to the identication and Reverse Stress Testing being established Committee should benefit from deep and management of risks.
by the Group in the context of the FSAs broad experience of banking and of the risk regulatory requirements.
factors affecting it, but also from very senior Risk management experience of other industries and At each of its meetings since establishment, Quality of risk information professions.
The composition of the the Committee has reviewed and discussed It is vital that non-executive directors have Committee, with three members possessing data regarding the Groups exposure to all open access to risk information, but simply deep banking and finance experience major risk types, including especially but inundating them with large volumes of Jamie Dundas, Richard Delbridge and not limited to credit risk, market risk, information may do little to enhance risk Oliver Stocken and three with a broader liquidity risk and capital adequacy.
Much effort has therefore business and professional background at a with one of the recommendations of the been devoted to the formulation of a very senior level Rudy Markham, Ruth Walker review of 2009, the Committee has standard set of relevant risk information Markland and Paul Skinner reects these ensured that its consideration of Group metrics.
The Committee needs to be able considerations.
Four Committee members exposures has taken into account to review all risk areas but, perhaps more sit on both the Board Risk and Audit macroeconomic and other external factors importantly, be able to identify key risk Committees and two of the Committee likely to affect the Groups business.
issues that require Committee and, if members sit on the Remuneration appropriate, Board focus.
To address this Committee, providing important linkages The Committee has also sought to build issue a Risk Information Report the Report between the three Committees.
assurance around the risk management was developed in 2009 in conjunction with procedures in the Group.
Substantial focus the use of external consultants to ensure The Committees insight and awareness has also been given to ensuring that all that the Report captures industry best regarding relevant management processes members of the Committee have a sound understanding of the Groups established practice.
During 2010 the Report has been have been facilitated through individual risk management framework and of the regularly reviewed and rened.
For example, committee members attending, as organisational mechanisms in place to over the course of the year, more observers, Group Risk Committee and manage all risk types across the Groups informative and useful information has been Group Asset and Liability Committee business and geographies.
This provided regarding operational risk metrics.
Reports from those committees groundwork has been valuable, and will This Report is submitted to each are prepared and presented to the help to underpin the Committees work in Committee meeting and an extract from the Committee at each of its meetings.
Report is also provided to the Board at each meeting.
What were the findings of the Committee Risk appetite statement effectiveness review?
The Committee has devoted considerable Risk induction The findings of the committee effectiveness time to its review of the Groups overall All the members of the Committee have review evidence that members of the position regarding risk appetite, taking as taken part in individual and collective risk Committee believe that having a dedicated its starting point the risk appetite policy induction briengs and the Committee Board Risk Committee has enabled fresh approved by the Board in 2009.
In chairman has regular meetings with the thinking around risk appetite, and particular, the Committee has questioned Group Chief Risk officer and the Group signicantly enhanced both risk and reviewed the processes by which Finance Director.
management reporting to the Board and compliance with Board-approved risk the Boards ability to digest and make best appetite is monitored and tested, and has Committee members have also participated use of the information it receives.
discussed in detail the assumptions made in specialist risk-related sessions, provided in all such testing.
We have also probed the by our in-house experts on either a Looking ahead, the Committee believes it consistency of our overall strategy, our one-to-one basis or for the Committee will benefit from further deep dives into budgets and performance targets with as a whole, to help Committee members selected topics such as liquidity, exposure approved risk appetite, and vice versa.
This understand and interpret the data to banks, reliance on models, and stress process, which we expect will roll forward contained within the Risk Information testing.
The Committee also expects that on a continuing basis, culminated in the Report.
These sessions have occasionally as it moves into its second year, it will wish Committee making recommendations to focused on specic key risk issues that are to allow more time for white space the Board in late 2010 to the effect that it particularly topical or current.
In addition to discussion regarding less easily identiable was satisfied that existing risk appetite the induction sessions, all Committee risks to the Groups business, and for a policy continued to be t for purpose and members have unfettered access to deeper review of managements approach consistent with the Groups strategy and management at all times and in all in relation to operational risk management.
During 2010, members of the In addition to regular meetings of the Committee have met with risk management Committees six scheduled in 2011, Stress testing staff in many locations including Singapore, individual members expect to visit a variety During the year the Committee has Seoul, Shanghai, Mumbai, Chennai and of our major markets during 2011 and will reviewed the Groups programme for stress London.
This has provided more granular continue to engage with many levels of the testing at various levels.
This programme insight regarding how risk management is Groups risk management across the included carrying out stress testing within operationalised on the ground.
102 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 13 2 Formation of this new enabling Continue to monitor closely committee within the Groups corporategovernance best practices governance structure with a view to recommending enhanced practices for adoption Oversight of the process for reviewing bytheBoard as appropriate the effectiveness of the Board, board committees, Chairman and Provide oversight of the development individual directors ofthe Groups refreshed Governance Manual Reviewed the geographic governance framework that is applied consistently Monitor progress to implement actions across the Group arising from the Board and Committee effectiveness evaluation and reviews Reviewed the findings of the subsidiary Governance Committee governance review and the Continue to review the effectiveness subsequent actions that were taken ofthe Groups governance framework Members in consultation with our Governance Scheduled Monitored developments in the Chief Executive Ofcers regulatory environment and the Number of potential impacts on our corporate Consider and agree the most meetings in 2010 3 governance practices appropriate mechanisms for reviewing J W Peace the Boards, board committees and Considered the proposed corporate Chairman 2 3 3 individual directors effectiveness governance disclosures for the 2010 R H P Markham 3 3 3 in2011 Annual Report and Accounts P A Sands 1 3 3 governance environment in terms of Each of the Governance Committees What has the Committees role and , developments and members is either a member or regularly focus been in 2010 and how has it aided best practice in our markets.
The update attends most of the other committees.
This is the Board with the delivery of its includes consideration of any emerging important as often matters are discussed in strategy?
trends such as governance codes, the Governance Committee that fall within The Governance Committee was formed in standards and legislation that are being the remit of another committee or the Board 2010 as an enabling body to provide a more enhanced and implemented in the markets as a whole.
Committee members understand formal and structured mechanism to inwhich we operate.
that one of their roles is to channel such consider corporate governance issues such matters to the appropriate forum for as industry governance reviews as well as to During the year, we reviewed the process for discussion.
There is particular room for drive and oversee the annual board reviewing the effectiveness of our Board, overlap between the remit of the Governance effectiveness evaluation process.
Our remit each of the boards committees, our and Nomination Committees.
John Peace also includes oversight of the Groups Chairman and each individual director.
This who chairs both Committees is mindful to governance framework including the way that included the consideration of the findings of ensure that all directors are kept informed our subsidiaries are governed.
the report by the independent facilitator, and involved as appropriate, particularly Boardroom Review, prior to discussion by regarding Board composition, governance The creation of a separate Governance the Board.
Committee was one of the recommendations arising from the internal governance review The Committee has oversight of the In addition, the Governance Committee has that we conducted in 2009.
In addition to mechanisms by which the Group is governed reviewed the geographic governance allowing for more in-depth discussions on and this includes governance of subsidiaries.
framework that is applied consistently across governance matters, it has also created During the year, we considered the findings Standard Chartered, including the linkages space for the Board as a whole to focus arising from a review of our subsidiary that are in place between our Board and our even more on key strategic issues.
Messrs Bindra and banking subsidiary boards and the additional benefit arising from the creation of the Shankar, who have geographic governance governance measures implemented as a Governance Committee is that the responsibility across the network, met with result of our subsidiary governance policy Nomination Committee has more time to the Committee and shared insights regarding forour subsidiaries and special purpose concentrate on key issues such as board and senior management succession.
the Groups governance practices and entities.
emerging market trends across our During 2010 we considered geographic footprint.
What were the findings of the Committee recommendations arising from the new effectiveness review?
Stewardship Code, the Walker review and The Committee consists of the Group The Committee had three scheduled the UK Corporate Governance Code as well Chairman, the Senior Independent Director meetings in 2010.
Although the Committee as numerous other European and and the Group Chief Executive.
The Group isnew, feedback arising from the international reviews relevant to governance.
Company Secretary is an important effectiveness review was that the Committee Given the importance that we place on contributor to the Committee as one of her is proving to be effective in providing a forum corporate governance, Standard Chartered key roles is to support the Chairman and where corporate governance issues are took a proactive role in contributing to both Group Chief Executive in enhancing the considered and discussed together with the Walker and the Financial Reporting effectiveness of the Board, its committees consideration of the findings of Board Councils reviews of the Combined Code.
Ateach meeting, the Committee receives anupdate on events in the corporate www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 103 Corporate governance Our highlights Our priorities in 2011 132456 Maintained oversight of executive Continuation of the structured succession planning approach to Board and committee succession, considering the range Considered the new mentoring ofattributes, perspectives and programme for selected members of experience needed over the long-term the Groups senior management Continued focus on executive Continued our review of the Board succession planning including structure, size and composition, consideration of diversity issues particularly in light of changes made during 2010 Reviewed and made recommendations to the Board on the directors seeking re-appointment and or re-election at Nomination Committee the Annual General Meeting Members Considered the performance and continued independence of nonScheduled executive directors Number of Reviewed conicts or potential conicts meetings in 2010 2 of interest for all directors J W Peace Chairman 4 2 2 J F T Dundas 5 2 2 R H P Markham 1 2 2 R Markland 6 2 2 P A Sands 3 2 2 1 P D Skinner 2 1 1 1 The first Committee meeting took place prior to appointment in March 2010 opportunity to observe the strength of the What has the Committees role and Over the course of the year, the structure, size and composition of the Board and its leadership cadre across the Group as well focus been in 2010 and how has it aided ongoing leadership needs were as providing the delegates with an the Board with the delivery of its continuously reviewed.
opportunity to have more interactionand strategy?
open dialogue with members of the Board.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Supplementing our activities, during the Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive year John Peace has facilitated several We also established a mentoring and the chairman of each board committee.
informal discussions with the non-executive programme between some of our We primarily focus on the existing and directors regarding executive succession non-executive directors and several of our future composition and balance of the planning.
most senior high potential leaders.
This Board and its committees.
We seek to programme provides development support ensure that the individuals in place are Succession planning to these leaders whilst also allowing our those best able to discharge the In addition, on behalf of the Board, we members to gain a more in-depth responsibilities required by the Group at all reviewed the planning and development perspective of the strengths and times.
When considering Board processes that are in place designed to capabilities of these individuals.
composition, we believe that a board that is ensure that the Group has appropriate comprised of people with different senior executive management to deliver the We reviewed the long-term succession backgrounds, skills and experiences can Groups strategy.
plans for non-executive directors looking provide diverse perspectives that support atthe balance of skills and experience the functioning and effectiveness of the During the year our members and other available to the Board.
We recognise that any board non-executive directors interacted with analysis was applied to the Board appointment should be meritocracy based, many of the senior management of the Committees.
In 2011, we will place even and we ensure that the individual selected Group.
For instance, most of the members greater focus on ensuring a structured possesses not only the right skills and participated in parts of the Groups andsmooth succession for all key roles experience, but also the rightbehavioural leadership programme Leading the Journey onthe Board, particularly the chairman strengths and skills to fullthe role.
attended by the most senior management.
Our members participation provided an 104 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Corporate governance Corporate governance Exemplary corporate governance Re-election of the Board We believe that strong corporate We reviewed and made recommendations governance is essential for delivering to the Board on the directors sustainable shareholder value and as a re-appointment and or re-election.
As leading international bank, we are at the described previously, we have decided to forefront of corporate governance.
We propose all directors for re-election this believe that simply complying with written year.
As a result, the Group Chairman corporate governance standards is not reported to the Committee on the outcome enough.
It is vital for companies to have of his performance evaluation of each anunderlying culture with behaviours individual director.
The Committee used this andvalues that support effective information, along with details of meetings corporategovernance.
At Standard attended, time commitment, overseas Chartered, our open, challenging yet visits, fullment of other activities outlined in cohesive and collaborative culture enables each non-executive directors engagement us to aim for the highest standards of plan as well as other contributions.
result, we were comfortable to recommend to the Board that each of the directors are eligible for re-election by shareholders atthe next Annual General Meeting in May2011.
Situational conicts Annemarie Durbin Group Company Secretary As part of its remit, we reappraised 2 March 2011 authorisations that it had provided for situational conicts under the Companies Act 2006.
What were the findings of the Committee effectiveness review?
We will need to build on the work that it has done in 2009 and early 2010 in terms of succession planning for the Board and its committees.
In particular, we are mindful that a number of non-executive directors have similar tenure and most of these play key roles as chairs of our various Committees.
It will be important to ensure that there is a structured and smooth succession for these chairmanships.
We felt that the Committee should continue to focus on executive succession planning and that it would be helpful to share periodically the findings of this review with the rest of the Boards non-executive directors.
This practice was already in place during 2010 when several brieng sessions with the rest of the non-executive directors where scheduled to keep them updated on developments and issues.
The general consensus is that these were helpful and should continue.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 105
