SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 38 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, published in 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
In 2010, the FRC has published an updated version known as the UK Corporate Governance Code the revised Code.
The revised Code will apply for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The Board is keeping its practices under review in light of the revised Code.
Compliance Statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance statement, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 31 and Going concern set out on page 40, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the best practice provisions in Section1 of the Code, other than the requirement that the Remuneration Committee comprise of at least three non-executive Directors.
Caroline Goodall has been appointed to the Remuneration Committee subsequent to the year end bringing its membership tothree.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy, decides on individual fund investments and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and, where appropriate, future prospects in annual and half-yearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence At 31 December 2010, there was one executive and seven non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Profiles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 28 and 29.
Caroline Goodall joined the Board on 4 October 2010.
TheBoard considers each of Francis Finlay, Caroline Goodall and Charles Sinclair to be independent.
The Board considers Edgar Koning independent in both character and judgement, notwithstanding that he is an employee of AEGON, a large shareholder inthe Company and has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board considers Denis Raeburn independent in both character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
AndrewSykes was appointed as a non-executive Director on 8 February 2010.
The Board considers Andrew Sykes independent having considered his role as a non-executive director of SVGA and is comfortable this role increases the Companys oversight of its subsidiary and does not affect his independence.
The independence of each Director is considered on a continuing basis.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group of individuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
Senior Independent Director Charles Sinclair was appointed Senior Independent Director on 4 March 2009.
The Senior Independent Director leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
As part of the evaluation process, the non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman being present, and the Senior Independent Director chairs these meetings.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of non-executive Directors will continue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
While the revised Code recommends that all directors be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting, the Directors believe that such a policy on tenure is not appropriate given the Companys long-term investment horizon.
However, any non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Otherwise, Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
This policy will be kept under review.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 39 Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
Performance evaluation The Board has adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
This year, the evaluation was completed in December 2010 and was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The process involved compiling a discussion guide which covered designated topics, with a particular focus this year on board dynamics and effectiveness, corporate governance, risk management and the development of strategy.
The Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary undertook a confidential, unattributable interview with each Director based on the discussion guide.
Following the meetings, the Senior Independent Director produced a written report which was discussed with the Chairman, before being sent to Board members and discussed at the following Board meeting.
Among the main themes highlighted by this years evaluation were the importance of reviewing the development of strategy further and of continuing scrutiny of the composition of the Board and various committees.
A list of action points to deal with the issues arising from the performance evaluation has been compiled and is being implemented under the direction of the Chairman.
Overall the evaluation process confirmed that the Board and its principal committees had functioned efficiently during the year and that each Director continued to contribute to his or her role effectively and with proper commitment, including of time.
The Board will consider whether the evaluation of its performance should be externally facilitated at least once every three years.
Meetings The Board held six scheduled meetings during 2010 including one, full day, strategy event.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Nicholas Ferguson 6 6 N A N A 2 2 Francis Finlay 5 6 N A 2 2 2 2 Lynn Fordham 6 6 N A N A N A Caroline Goodall appointed 4 October 2010 2 2 N A N A 0 0 Edgar Koning 4 6 N A N A 2 2 Denis Raeburn 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 Charles Sinclair 6 6 3 3 N A 2 2 Gary Steinberg resigned 12 January 2010 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Andrew Sykes appointed 8 February 2010 6 6 3 3 N A 1 1 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Information flows Management reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specific matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal controls.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Insurance and Indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Officers under a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by United Kingdom law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conflicts of interest In the light of changes to the law resulting from the implementation of the Companies Act 2006, the Board has approved a policy on Directors conflicts of interest.
Under this policy, the Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and approval.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conflicts if deemed appropriate.
Corporate information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 40 Corporate governance Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to Committees.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 31 December 2010 may be found below and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be found above.
Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity in financial reporting and internal control.
The Board considers each member of the Committee to be independent.
The Board also considers that members of the Committee have competence in accounting.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on three occasions during the year ended 31 December 2010 and considered the annual financial statements, the half-yearly financial statements and the quarterly valuation update, the external Auditors year end reports and management letters, the effectiveness of the audit process, the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor, the risk profile of the Group and the internal audit review process.
Following Gary Steinbergs resignation on 12 January 2010, Denis Raeburn acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
With effect from 26 October 2010, Andrew Sykes replaced Denis Raeburn as Chairman of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The role of the Committee is to determine remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group and to operate the Companys Share Awards Schemes.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met formally on two occasions during the year ended 31 December 2010 and considered the approval of annual bonus proposals and long term incentives for the executive Directors, and key staff based on performance in respect of the years ended 31 December 2009 and 31 December 2010.
In addition, a number of informal meetings of the Committee took place during the year.
Nominations Committee The role of the Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skills and experience, and on individual appointments, to lead the process and make recommendations to the Board.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met twice during the year ended 31 December 2010 and considered the appointment of Andrew Sykes and Caroline Goodall and considered an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board and succession planning.
Neither an external search consultancy nor open advertising was used when recruiting Andrew Sykes, due to the fact that the Board was familiar with Mr Sykes prior to his appointment.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board also undertakes shareholder perceptions research.
During 2010, the Chairman and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with major shareholders and their representatives to discuss governance issues ahead of the 2010 AGM.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
Proceedings include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year end is valuable.
The notice of AGM at page 91 sets out the business of the meeting.
Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 and 7, the Chief Executives report on pages 8 and 9 and the Business Review on pages 10 to 25.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 14 and 15.
In addition note 30 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk profile.
A description of the Groups risks and risk management are also outlined in the Business Review on pages 24 to 25.
In light of the Groups financial resources, the Directors believe that the Group is positioned to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook, and, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 41 Internal control The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal control and report to shareholders that it has done so.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all the aspects of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors, as revised in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance under which the Board is responsible for the Groups system ofinternal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has approved a detailed Risk Map identifying significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider-related risks and has adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis.
The Board has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide internal audit support and management are required to provide appropriate support to Deloitte LLP in its efforts.
The Board believes that the key risks identified and the implementation of an ongoing system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are appropriate to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The ongoing risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control including whistleblowing polices where appropriate adopted by major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Groups performance or condition.
No significant control failings or weaknesses were identified during the course of the year and up to the date of this report from the Boards continuing risk assessment.
The Board considers that adequate controls exist over the financial reporting process.
A single team is responsible for preparing and consolidating the financial reporting for each of the Group entities and ensuring that financial information is accurate, complete, reconciled and reviewed by senior members of staff, and that transactions and balances are recognised and measured on a consistent basis and in accordance with accounting policies and financial reporting standards.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place, this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
