Overview Directors report: Directors report: Financial statements Business review Governance 19 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the NonThe Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis Executive Directors of the Company.
The terms of reference are on the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors, regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and are then referred to  LLP, when performing their role in the the Board for approval.
These are available at www.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on their independence from The Audit Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes, who has recent the Company.
and relevant financial experience, and its other members are Simon Metcalf and Geoff Brady, both of whom are independent NonThe Audit Committee reviews independence, objectivity and Executive Directors.
The Committee met four times during the performance of the auditors annually, including the annual report on year with full attendance.
the auditors produced by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial Reporting Council.
On the basis of that review, the Audit Committee At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive, recommends the reappointment of the auditors to the Board.
the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors regularly attended  LLP have been auditors to the Company meetings.
Other Directors and senior managers also attend if since 2005 when they were appointed following a competitive tender.
There were also regular private meetings with the The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys external and internal auditors without management present.
relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The The Audit Committee has an agenda linked to events in the Groups auditors may only provide such services provided that such advice financial calendar.
During the period ended 1 May 2010, the Audit does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical Committee discharged its responsibilities by: guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial reviewing the Groups draft annual results announcement limits set out by that policy.
Details of the auditors remuneration and financial statements and the interim statement prior to for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 1 May 2010 Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed are disclosed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
reports thereon: The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the accounts reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the Groups is set out on pages 27 to 28.
The Statement by the Auditors on their accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in their standards and methods used to account for significant or report on page 67. unusual transactions: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Annual General Meeting.
external auditors and, on the basis of that review, recommending to the Board their reappointment at the AGM: reviewing the Groups Corporate and Social responsibility report: approving the audit fees paid to the external auditors and reviewing the application of the policy on non-audit work performed by them together with the non-audit fees payable to them: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the process for ensuring that senior management confirm that they have supplied the auditors with relevant audit information: reviewing the internal audit plan, monitoring the delivery of that plan during the year and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: reviewing the work of the EDs Group, which oversees the identification and management of the risks to the business, together with reports on the Groups systems of internal control, and reporting the results of this review to the Board: reviewing its terms of reference and effectiveness: and reviewing the whistleblowing policy and relevant items reported under that policy.
