16 Corporate governance The Group recognises the importance of high standards of corporate SID is of enhanced importance.
In particular, the SID plays a governance, and is committed to operating within an effective significant role in determining the Board agenda and Board appraisal corporate governance framework through the operation of Board process and in ensuring that any issues raised by the Non-Executive committees, internal procedures and Group policies.
This report, the Directors are fully dealt with.
Baroness Noakes has been the SID Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, since June 2004. explain how the Company has applied the principles set out in the A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and Remuneration UK Financial Reporting Councils 2008 Combined Code on Committees has been undertaken.
The exercise to evaluate the Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
performance of the Board was led by the SID, and those of the Audit and Remuneration Committees was led by the chairmen of those The Board committees.
The results of these assessments have been considered The Board consists of four Executive and four Non-Executive by the Board and confirmed the strength of leadership within the Directors, brief biographies of whom can be found on page 15. business and a sound governance framework.
Geoff Brady, one of the Non-Executive Directors, has announced his intention to stand down from the Board on 31 August 2010.
A The Non-Executive Directors generally meet privately with the search is currently underway to appoint a replacement.
There is a Chairman and Chief Executive at least twice each year.
The Nonformal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors present, of new directors to the Board and this is described in the section at least once each year inter alia to review the performance of concerning the Nomination Committee on page 17. the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Guy Weston and Christian Sollesse both retire from office, having The full Board met six times during the year with full attendance.
completed three years service since last being re-elected to the Board Six meetings are scheduled for the current year.
and, being eligible, both offer themselves for re-election at the The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Baroness Noakes policies, providing effective leadership and control and for approving retires from office, having completed nine years service as a Nonthe Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital Executive Director, and offers herself for re-election at the AGM.
It has responsibility for the management, direction The Board believes that the current structure of the Board is of an and performance of the Group and is accountable to the Companys appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an effective shareholders for the proper conduct of its business.
The Board has a and successful manner.
formal schedule of matters which sets out those matters requiring Board approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
Day-toThe Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key governance day management is delegated to the Chief Executive and the role and bring an extra dimension to the Boards deliberations.
Board has considered the independence of each Non-Executive Director against the criteria specified in the Combined Code and Directors receive monthly trading results, commentary, briefing determined that each remains fully independent.
The Board in notes and reports for their consideration in advance of each Board particular considered the independence of Baroness Noakes, who meeting, including reports on the Groups operations to ensure that is considered by the Board to be independent in character and they remain briefed on the latest developments and are able to make judgment notwithstanding that she has served as a Director of fully informed decisions.
the Company for more than nine years from the date of her All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company first election.
Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association every Director will may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
submit himself or herself for re-election every third year.
Additionally, In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them under the Companys Articles of Association and in accordance with to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
All new the Combined Code, every Non-Executive Director who has served Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
as a Director for nine years or more is subject to annual re-election as a Director.
Board committees The Board has three Committees, each of which has written terms The position of Chairman is combined with the role of Chief Executive.
of reference which are available on the Companys corporate website The Board does not at present consider it necessary to separate the www.
The Chairman is one of the leading figures in the industry both in the UK and Europe and the Board believe that it is in The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees shareholders interests that he should be seen to take the leading to ensure that Committee membership is refreshed.
The Company role in the Companys affairs.
He also has extensive listed company provides the Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their experience at board level.
The Chairman was a member of the duties.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
Nomination Committee during the year under review, and he The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how attends the Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings by it carried out its duties are set out in the Audit Committee report invitation.
The Board recognises that with a combined Chairman on page 19. and Chief Executive the role of the Senior Independent Director Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Directors report: Directors report: Financial statements Business review Governance 17 The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and Identification of business risks details of how it carried out its duties are set out in the Directors The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks remuneration report on pages 20 to 24. faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The EDs Group identifies and assesses risks to the Groups medium-term The Nomination Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes and its strategy.
The EDs Group directs both the UK and European Risk other members are Lord Harris and Guy Weston.
The Committee Management Committees to address each of the identified risks, met three times during the year with full attendance.
formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely impact of such The role of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate risk occurring, and provides regular reports to the Audit Committee.
candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies and make The UK Risk Management Committee and the European Risk recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
Management Committee each comprise a small number of the External search consultants assist in the search process for all senior management team as regular members, who are able to call new Board appointees.
The Committee considers the skills on the expertise of other managers as required.
Each Committee, and competencies of the existing Directors when drawing up which meets at least quarterly, regularly reviews the risk management a specification for new appointments and is ensuring that the and control process within its territory and considers the response development needs of Executive Directors and other senior to the significant risks which have been identified by management managers are addressed appropriately.
and others and monitors the maintenance of a control environment The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire by directed towards the proper management of risk.
Both risk rotation should be recommended for re-appointment, and whether management committees report to the EDs Group.
the appointment of Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of Additionally there are working groups covering Corporate their three-year term should be renewed.
Committee members do Responsibility, Stock Management and Business Continuity not vote on their own reappointment.
and, in Europe, Health and Safety.
These report to the UK Risk Management Committee or the European Risk Management Risk Management and Internal Controls Committee as appropriate.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to fulfil The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the set out on pages 11 and 12.
Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, Health and safety lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated Enforcing the health and safety policy is a high priority for throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work or Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, if of internal control, this system is designed to meet the Groups necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health and safety issues are particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather than included as part of the internal audit review of all premises.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal audit The Board has reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls The internal audit function: including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as works to develop, improve and embed risk management tools risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the guidance and processes within the business operations: on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the Financial undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, Reporting Council in October 2005. based on a risk assessment model: The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by reviewed by management at all levels of the Group and that the Executive Directors.
The Board has established an Executive Directors are periodically appraised of key risks: Directors Group EDs Group comprising the Executive Directors provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective and senior managers who review key risk and control issues.
The assurance on the control environment across the Group: and EDs Group meets quarterly.
monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Several key processes exist within the Group to ensure a sound system of internal control which is described below: www.
uk 18 Corporate governance continued Planning The Groups planning process underpins the development of the annual budget.
The budget is reviewed and approved formally by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Key performance indicators are monitored weekly.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Statement of Compliance During the period ended 1 May 2010 the Company complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except provision A.
2.1 as the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, an explanation for which is set out above.
The Board does not at present consider it necessary to separate the two roles.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2010
