Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued Audit committee Relations with shareholders The audit committee is a formally constituted committee Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the of the Board with defined terms of reference which are Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at Group communicates with shareholders is through the half the registered office of the Group.
It normally meets twice yearly reports, annual reports and interim management yearly and among its specific responsibilities are a review statements.
The information contained therein is of the audit plan for the year, the review of the Groups supplemented by regular NAV announcements and by a annual and half yearly results, together with associated monthly fact sheet available on the Groups website.
documentation, and the review of the internal and financial The Board largely delegates responsibility for controls applicable to the management company.
The communication with shareholders to the management Committee also reviews the cost effectiveness, company and, through feedback, expects to be able to independence and objectivity of the auditors with develop an understanding of their views.
Members of the particular regard to non-audit fees, of which there were Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose none in either the current or prior financial years.
All of the of discussing matters in relation to the operation and directors are members of the audit committee and the prospects of the Group.
The Board is satisfied that The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM and members of the audit committee have relevant and recent encourages questions and discussion on issues of concern financial experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The or areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements auditors, who the Board has identified as being have been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme independent, are invited to attend the audit committee investors to participate fully at AGMs.
A separate resolution meeting at which the annual accounts are considered and will be proposed at the AGM in respect of each any other meetings that the committee deem necessary.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the Manager makes a presentation to the Nomination committee meeting outlining the key investment issues that face the A nomination committee has been established to oversee a Group.
formal review procedure governing the appointment of new directors and to evaluate the overall composition of Accountability, internal controls and audit the Board from time to time, taking into account the The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all existing balance of skills and knowledge.
documents released by the Group, including the Annual The committee is also responsible for assessing the Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the individual performance of directors and for making Groups position and prospects.
recommendations as to whether they should remain in After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable office.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Management engagement committee future, including recourse to a 25 million overdraft facility As all the directors are fully independent of the with HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the directors continue to management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
function of a management engagement committee.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order Board audit committee nomination to facilitate the control process the Board has requested committee director ongoing evaluation the Manager to confirm annually that they have conducted On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its the Groups affairs in compliance with the legal and performance, together with that of the audit and regulatory obligations which apply to the Group and to nomination committees and the effectiveness and report on the systems and procedures within Investec contribution of the individual directors, including the which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in The review encompasses an assessment of how cohesively each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial these bodies work as a whole as well as the performance of and statistical information to enable it to monitor the individuals within them.
On the basis of these reviews adequately the investment performance and status of the the Board has concluded that it has a proper balance of business.
skills and is operating effectively.
24 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
