Active investment working for you Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES There were seven Board meetings and two audit The Board attaches great importance to ensuring that the committee meetings held during the year and the Group operates to high ethical and compliance standards.
attendance by the directors was as follows: In addition, the Board seeks to observe the principles set Number of meetings attended out in the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, established Board Audit Committee specifically for investment trust companies and endorsed John Reeve 7 2 by the Financial Reporting Council.
By following the Code, June fide Moller 7 2 the Group continues to meet its obligations in relation to Richard Jewson 7 2 the FRCs Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Martin Riley 6 1 The Code provides a guide to best practice in certain Field Walton 3 1 areas of governance where the specific characteristics of David Webster 7 2 investment trusts suggest that alternative approaches to those set out in the Combined Code may be preferable.
Independence of the directors COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE Each of the directors is independent of any association OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE with the management company and has no other Operation of the Board relationships or circumstances which might be perceived to Each of the directors is independent of any association interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Two with the management company which might interfere with of the six directors Mr Reeve and Mr Jewson have served the exercise of independent judgement.
There is a formal on the Board for more than nine years from the date of schedule of matters to be specifically approved by the their first election, but given the nature of the Group as an Board and individual directors may seek independent investment trust and the strongly independent mindset of advice at the expense of the Group within certain limits.
the individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the view The Board has delegated the investment management, that all of the directors can be considered to be within clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, and independent.
In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes the administration of the business to Investec Asset a clear distinction between the activities of an investment Management Limited IAM.
The Board makes all strategic trust and a conventional trading company.
An investment decisions, reviews the performance of the Group at Board trust has no employees or executive directors, the only meetings and sets the objectives for the Manager.
The significant relationship being with the management directors have a range of business and financial skills company.
In overseeing this relationship it is the view of or experience relevant to the direction of the Group.
the Board that long service aids the understanding, Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
judgement, objectivity and independence of the directors The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board, inter and in no way detracts from any of these qualities.
alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for compliance with applicable rules and regulations Re-election of directors including the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the nominated representative of the Corporate Company first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter for the subject to retirement by rotation at intervals of no more Board as a whole.
In addition, the appointment of each The content and presentation of Board papers circulated director is reviewed by other members of the Board every before each meeting contain sufficient information on the year.
Directors are not, therefore, subject to automatic financial condition of the Group.
Non-executive directors are not appointed IAM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe for specified terms.
Because of the nature of an investment on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain trust the Board believes that the contribution and issues.
independence of a director is not diminished by long service and, conversely, that a more detailed knowledge of the Group and its business has a beneficial impact.
The directors due to stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM are Mr Jewson, Mr Reeve, Mr Riley and Mr Copple.
The Board has carefully considered the position of each of these directors and believes it would be appropriate for them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors continues to be effective and to display an undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 23
