THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Board Committees The Board recommend the reappointment of Ernst & The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out Young LLP as Auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
The Management Engagement Committee, which The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at also carries out the functions of a Remuneration the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
Committee, was formed in November 2006.
Further details are set out below.
The Board does not have a Management Engagement Committee Nominations Committee.
This function is carried out by The Management Engagement Committee MEC was the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board formed in November 2006 comprising the Chairman and meetings when required.
all directors of the Company.
Audit Committee The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all end of the financial year.
The MEC met in March 2010. the members of the Board.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Spencer.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of Committee member has recent and relevant financial Thames River and its continued suitability to manage the experience.
It also reviews the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are The Committee has written terms of reference, which competitive and fair and in the best interests of the clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
found on the website, are available on request and will At the MEC meeting in March 2010, the MEC confirmed also be available for inspection at the AGM.
that Thames River should be retained as the Investment The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2011. internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board and recommend to the Board for approval the contents has delegated to external third parties the custodial services of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day and to review the accounting policies and significant accounting, company secretarial services, administration and financial reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity, into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the effectiveness, appointment, remuneration, the quality of services offered, including the control systems in operation the services of the service providers to the Company, and, insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These together with the Investment Manager, reviews the contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
Representatives of the In addition to the reviews by the MEC the Board reviews and Investment Managers, Administrators and Company considers performance reports from the Investment Manager Secretarys internal audit and compliance departments at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular may attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and the Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the The provision of non-audit services by the Companys performance of all other third party service providers.
Auditors is considered and approved by the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis.
The MEC also reviews, on an annual basis, the directors fees.
The results of the most recent review are set out in Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47.
Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are Tenure Policy given the opportunity to speak to the Committee No director has a contract of employment with the members without the presence of the representatives of Company.
Directors terms and conditions for the Investment Manager.
appointment are set out in letters of appointment which The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company and will be available at the AGM.
