Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report The directors are responsible for the corporate governance of the received fees of 97,744 for the year ended 31 December 2010 from Group.
They support the principles of good corporate governance Collins Stewart plc, which he is entitled to retain.
and code of best practice laid down by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council The terms of the directors service agreements and letters of in June 2008 the Combined Code.
appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 32 to 38.
The terms and conditions Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the Board believes of appointment of the non-executive directors will be available for it has complied with the principles and provisions recommended inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other by the Combined Code.
The manner in which the Company than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the date the has applied the principles of good governance set out in the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM.
Combined Code during 2010 is outlined below.
For the financial year commencing on 1 January 2011 the Company is subject to the Independence of directors UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting The Board has determined that all four of the non-executive Council in June 2010.
The Combined Code and the UK Corporate directors are independent.
Governance Code are publicly available at www.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director, David Clark, has Directors responsibility for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns, Composition of the Board which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief The Board currently comprises two executive directors, four Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such independent non-executive directors and a non-executive Chairman.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board during 2010, except that Michael Fallon resigned as a non-executive director Induction and professional development with effect from 1 June 2010 and was re-appointed as a nonAll directors receive induction on joining the Board and relevant executive director on 28 September 2010.
The directors biographies training is available to directors to assist them in the performance are shown on page 25 and demonstrate the Boards depth of of their duties.
The Audit Committee and the Remuneration experience and skill.
The non-executive directors also have the range Committee receive brie ngs on current developments.
The of experience and the calibre to exercise independent judgement non-executive directors take advantage of sector and general and contribute to Board discussions.
Four of the directors and three conferences and seminars and training events organised by of the non-executive directors have extensive previous experience professional rms and receive circulars and training materials at a senior level in the financial services sector and three of the from the Company and other professional advisers.
Regular directors are chartered accountants two of whom were audit presentations are made to the Board by members of the partners in a major rm of accountants, one of the non-executive Companys Executive Committee, and arrangements are made for directors was a Senior Adviser to the Financial Services Authority, non-executive directors to meet members of the management and both the Chairman and the Finance Director were previously teams and they attend the Companys management conferences.
Finance Directors of a number of other companies.
The average Non-executive directors regularly visit the Companys international age of the members of the Board is 56 non-executive directors, of ces, usually in connection with other activities.
including the Chairman 58 and the average length of service of the non-executive directors excluding the Chairman including Con icts of interest membership of the Board of Collins Stewart Tullett plc is six years.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a director has an The Chairman, Keith Hamill was, at appointment, independent interest that con icts, or may possibly con ict, with the interests of the Company and the management, but, as Chairman, is not of the Company a Relevant Situation.
The Board has a formal classi ed as independent.
His other signi cant commitments system in place for directors to declare Relevant Situations to be are noted in his biography on page 25. considered for authorisation by those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-con icted directors must and the Chief Executive.
The primary responsibility of the Chairman act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to is the leadership of the Board.
The primary responsibility of the promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is the running of the Companys or conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if they operations and the development and implementation of strategy think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed in order to maximise shareholder value.
procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise Relevant Situations and believes that the systems it has in place for In the event that any of the executive directors wished to take up a reporting and considering Relevant Situations, including an annual non-executive appointment with another company, the Board would review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
be amenable to such a proposal, provided that the time commitment involved would not be too onerous.
Following the demerger of During the year the independent non-executive directors, led by Collins Stewart plc on 19 December 2006, Terry Smith became the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, reviewed the Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
On 1 April 2010 Terry Smith external business commitments of members of the Board and handed over the Chairmanship and served as Deputy Chairman concluded that none of these gave rise to con icts of interest or until 6 December 2010 when he retired as a director.
Terry Smith other factors which might affect the effective operation of the Company or the Board.
28 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Performance evaluation Board appointments and removals: Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and reporting to shareholders: and individual directors in respect of the previous financial year have environmental, social and governance policies, including been undertaken.
In this process, consideration was given to corporate social responsibility policy.
whether the Board or Committee ful lled its terms of reference satisfactorily, whether the terms of reference needed to be revised, Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority which whether the administration operated effectively and whether sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual directors individual directors performed their roles effectively.
In March 2010 and March 2011, the Chairman formally met with The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations the non-executive directors without the executive directors being Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
present to evaluate, amongst other matters, the performance Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference, which can of the individual executive directors.
The Senior Independent be viewed on the Companys website and a schedule of business to Non-executive Director met with the other non-executive directors be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the without the Chairman being present to evaluate the Chairmans Committees together with an overview of their meetings during performance.
Appropriate feedback was provided following these the year are described below.
The Chairman has also provided feedback on performance to the non-executive directors.
The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their Re-election duties.
All directors receive written reports prior to each meeting Under the Companys Articles of Association the Articles all which enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM business issues under review.
All Board meetings are minuted and after their appointment.
Thereafter, any director who has held any unresolved concerns are recorded in such minutes.
of ce for three years or more is required to retire by rotation at the AGM but is entitled to seek re-election.
The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to arrange Michael Fallon is subject to election at the AGM in May 2011, as he these meetings so that all directors can attend: additional was re-appointed since the last AGM.
Michael Fallon first joined the meetings are arranged as required.
Board of Collins Stewart Tullett plc in September 2004.
The following table sets out the Board and Committee attendance David Clark and Richard Kilsby will seek re-election at the AGM in record during the year: May 2011.
David Clark joined the Board of Collins Stewart Tullett plc Audit Remuneration Nominations in March 2003.
Richard Kilsby joined the Board of Collins Stewart Board Committee Committee Committee Tullett plc in June 2005.
Executive Directors The Board is satis ed that, following particularly rigorous review given Terry Smith 8 8 the length of service of these directors on the Board of the Company Paul Mainwaring 8 8 and its predecessor company, and after formal performance Non-executive Directors evaluation, each of these directors performance continues to Keith Hamill 8 8 2 2 be effective, and each demonstrates commitment to their role.
David Clark 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 Following review during 2010 the Board concluded that David Clark Michael Fallon 4 5 2 2 3 5 should continue to act as the Senior Independent Director until a Richard Kilsby 8 8 4 4 4 5 2 2 successor is identi ed.
Rupert Robson 8 8 4 4 5 5 2 2 Under the new UK Corporate Governance Code all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by Excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to shareholders.
The Company expects that it will transition to complete business approved by the Board or routine business.
adopting this policy for the AGM in 2012 when the Company also During 2010 Michael Fallon served as a director from 1 January intends to seek shareholder approval to amend the Articles to replace to 1 June and from 28 September onwards.
In the period when the current requirement for directors to retire by rotation after three Michael Fallon was a director there were no meetings of the years with a requirement for directors to seek annual re-election.
Board administration All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary The Board has a formal Schedule of matters reserved to it for and there are procedures in place for taking independent decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
The Schedule includes, among other things: approval of the Groups strategy: The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board changes to the Groups management and control structure: keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which affect the approval of any material borrowing or commitment: Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
29 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT & BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued available to carry out the schedule and key findings.
A system of Audit Committee reporting to follow up on all matters raised by both internal and The Audit Committee is chaired by Richard Kilsby, who has recent external audit was taken into account in assessing the and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Audit effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Committee are David Clark, Michael Fallon and Rupert Robson, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other The Chairman, the executive directors, the Companys external and than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the date the internal auditors, the Group Treasurer and Head of Risk Control, and notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM, and are other senior finance personnel may attend Committee meetings also available on the Companys website.
The Committee has a discussion with the external auditor at least once a year without executive directors being Remuneration Committee present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
The other members of the Remuneration Committee are Michael Throughout 2010 the Committees terms of reference included: Fallon, David Clark and Richard Kilsby, all of whom are independent recommendation on appointment of the external auditor: non-executive directors.
review of independence and objectivity of the external auditor: review of effectiveness of the audit process: The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the approval of the annual audit plan and scope of audit engagement: Remuneration Committee: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements: reviewing and approving the general principles of the review of the results of the audit: Companys remuneration policies: review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control reviewing the relationship between incentives and risk: procedures: determining the application of the Companys remuneration review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function and policies to the Executive Directors: consideration of internal audit reports: and determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and the review of the arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, Chairman: raise concerns about improprieties in financial reporting and reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration other matters.
policies to Senior Management, Brokers and other employees: a pproving the remuneration of Senior Management after The Audit Committee has reviewed the cost effectiveness, consultation with the Chief Executive: and objectivity and independence of the external auditor, and the level approving all share and long term incentive schemes and their of fees received in respect of the various services provided by them application.
in addition to the audit during 2010.
The non-audit fees paid to the auditor are disclosed in Note 6 to the accounts.
The auditor The Chairman and the executive directors attend certain parts of con rmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that certain meetings of the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
the level of non-audit fees had affected their independence.
The The Chairman and the executive directors do not attend meetings Audit Committee additionally considered the professional and where their own remuneration is being discussed.
regulatory guidance on auditor independence and was satis ed with the auditors representations.
The Companys policy is to use During 2010 and subsequently, the Remuneration Committee has the most appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking account been advised by  executive compensation of the need to maintain independence.
has approved a formal policy governing the engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services.
Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and share options are given in the Report on Directors The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the half-year and Remuneration set out on pages 32 to 38. preliminary announcements of results and the statutory accounts prior to their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee will be the Committee considers the continuing appropriateness of the available for inspection during normal business hours on any week accounting policies, judgements made in the production of the day other than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the numbers and the adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures.
date the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM, and are also available on the Companys website.
The Committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of Nominations Committee financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting the review, the The Nominations Committee is chaired by Keith Hamill.
The other Committee took into account whether the policies were in line members of the Nominations Committee are David Clark, Michael with guidance published by the Financial Services Authority.
Fallon, Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the The Audit Committee received reports from the internal auditor, Nominations Committee provide that the Chairman of the Board , during the year and reviewed the would not be permitted to chair the Committee if it were dealing schedule of work proposed by the internal auditor, the resources with the issue of his replacement.
30 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations Relations with shareholders Committee for: The Board recognises the importance of communication with reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience of shareholders.
com, the Board: provides information for shareholders on the Groups activities, agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection of new results, products and recent developments.
Board appointments: and making recommendations to the Board on all proposed new There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund appointments.
managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results announcements and also on request.
The Chairman In considering the appointment of new non-executive directors, maintains ongoing relations with shareholders when necessary the Committee takes account of the time commitment likely to be or appropriate and is available to those shareholders who have a required of the appointee.
The likely time commitment is referred policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss speci c matters.
to in all new letters of appointment.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other non-executive directors are available to meet with shareholders, The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee will be should such meetings be requested.
available for inspection during normal business hours on any week day other than public holidays at the Companys of ces from the Annual General Meeting date the notice of AGM is posted until the conclusion of the AGM The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and and are also available on the Companys website.
Notice of the AGM, and related papers, are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Risk management and internal control meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the directors, The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management at AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy framework and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by disclosed at those meetings.
To encourage shareholder participation, the Group.
The Groups risk management governance structure and those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are the Groups risk pro le are described in the Risk Management offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
section of the Business Review.
Accountability and Audit The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal The directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In discharging its the Annual Report is set out on page 39 and the independent responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is on page 41.
Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to Going concern the Board thereon.
This process has been in place for the year under The Groups business activities and performance, and the financial review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, borrowing reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull facilities and hedging strategy, together with the factors likely to guidance appended to the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee affect its future development, performance and position, are conducted a formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups discussed in the Business Review on pages 05 to 23.
Analysis of the internal control systems for 2010, considering reports from Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also set out management, external audit and the work of the risk control in the Business Review on pages 15 to 19.
Details of the Groups and internal audit functions.
interest bearing loans and borrowings, obligations under finance leases, derivative financial instruments, long term provisions, The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting other long term payables and financial instruments are set out in which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management accounts including balance sheets and cash ows are prepared at all levels of The Group has considerable financial resources both in the regions the business and consolidated reports are reviewed by the Board.
and at the corporate centre to comfortably meet the Groups These reports include comparisons of performance and position ongoing obligations.
against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to associated companies.
Where the Group is not directly involved in continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
the management of the investment, it can in uence, through Accordingly, the annual report and accounts continue to be Board representation, but not control, the internal control systems prepared on the going concern basis.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiaries.
31 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT & BUSINESS REVIEW
