Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, in applying financial reporting and internal control including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship Mr Boyle was appointed Chairman of the Committee in with the Groups auditors.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
The other two The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in members are Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were its terms of reference, which comply with the Combined appointed in 2002 and 2006 respectively: details of their Code.
The terms of reference are available on request qualifications and experience are given on page 22.
The from the Company Secretary and can be seen on the Committees programme is to meet at least three times a Companys website.
year: in advance of the publication of both the annual and the half year results and on at least one other The Committee is responsible for monitoring the occasion.
integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of the Companys accounting The Committee held three meetings during the year, at policies and significant reporting judgements.
It reviews two of which representatives of the auditors were present: the Companys internal financial controls and risk to consider the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2009 management systems.
It reviews the scope and financial statements and to consider the plan for the effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the audit of the Groups 2010 financial statements.
It conducts a formal review of the performance of the external auditors During the year the Committee addressed all the matters and makes recommendations in relation to this set out as its responsibilities under its terms of reference appointment, including their remuneration and the and confirmed that the Group should not establish an provision by them of any non-audit services.
In particular, the Committee Committee has established a procedure to ensure that the conducted a detailed review of the internal processes of engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services the investment managers.
cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees without due consideration being given by the Committee to the proposed appointment.
The Committee also reviews the process for negotiating and Robert Boyle monitoring major contracts undertaken by the Chairman of the Audit Committee Company, the Boards investment restrictions and the 15 March 2011 values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures that the Company maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
The Committee reports to the Board, identifying matters on which it considers that action is needed and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
