Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement Background The FRC issued the UK Corporate Governance Code and The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency the UK Stewardship Code, in June and July 2010 Rules the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to respectively, in place of the Combined Code.
The Board disclose how they have applied the principles and has reviewed the changes made to the Combined Code complied with the provisions of the Combined Code on and this statement reflects that review.
Corporate Governance the Combined Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC.
The Compliance provisions of the Combined Code issued by the FRC in Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the June 2008 were applicable in the year under review.
The Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Combined Code can be viewed at www.
uk The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in the Code and seeks to observe its principles.
The Board The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC considers that reporting against the principles and Code, issued by the Association of Investment recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to Companies the AIC, provides specific corporate the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code, governance guidelines to investment companies.
The provides the most relevant information to shareholders.
FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs The Principles of the AIC Code Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
Its will be meeting its obligations in relation to the three sections cover: the Board: Board Meetings and Combined Code and the associated disclosure relations with the Investment Manager: and Shareholder requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
issued in March 2009 was applicable in the year under review.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
co. uk Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board 1.
The chairman should be Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since the Annual independent.
General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the Board in 1988.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in conflict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of confidence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is firmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove & Co. the firm which for many years acted as the Companys stockbroker.
However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management division.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Chairman has no relationships that might create a conflict of interest between his interests and those of the other shareholders.
28 Annual Report 2010 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 2.
A majority of the board should At 31 December 2010 the Board was composed of seven independent nonbe independent of the executive directors and one executive director the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board expects to maintain this balance.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement.
Directors should be elected for New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual general a fixed term of no more than meeting of the Company that follows their appointment.
Thereafter all directors three years.
Nomination for stand for re-election at least every three years.
Directors who have served for re-election should not be more than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There are currently two assumed but be based on directors with service of more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson the disclosed procedures.
Chairman and Mr R H McGrath but Mr McGrath will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2011.
The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as published in June 2010, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board considers that the annual re-election of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons for this view: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders choose not to exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 as if the Company was not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration Committee, which serves as its nominations committee, oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 below.
The board should have a policy New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three years from the on tenure, which is disclosed in date of their first annual general meeting after appointment and with the the annual report.
expectation that they will serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the Board as a whole.
None of the directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their 29 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
Therefore there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
There should be full disclosure Details of the directors are set out on page 22.
They demonstrate a broad range of information about the of investment, professional and commercial expertise and experience, gained board.
overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The board should aim to have The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
a balance of skills, experience, ages and length of service.
The board should undertake a The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance on an annual formal and rigorous annual basis.
This process is based on open discussion and seeks to assess the evaluation of its own strengths and weaknesses of the Board and its Committees.
The Chairman performance and that of its leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews committees and individual with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and directors.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
The Boards Remuneration Committee oversees this process.
However, in the summer of 2010 the Board reviewed Provision B.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, and concluded that, regardless of the size of the company, periodic external evaluation should add value to the process.
Accordingly, a sub-committee of the Board reviewed a number of the firms offering this service and appointed Trust Associates Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The Board has reviewed the report submitted to it and the Chairman will lead on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board considers should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
Trust Associates Limited as a firm has been used to identify possible candidates for recruitment to the Board.
Director remuneration should The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39 details the process for reflect their duties, determining the directors remuneration and sets out the amounts payable.
responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The independent directors The Boards Remuneration Committee serves as its nominations committee and should take the lead in the oversees the recruitment process.
However, all the independent non-executive appointment of new directors directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the sub-committee and the process should be appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
Notwithstanding this, the disclosed in the annual report.
Chairman would not expect to be involved in the selection of his successor.
30 Annual Report 2010 Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 10.
Directors should be offered Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an introductory relevant training and programme covering the Companys strategy, policies and operations, induction.
including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys executive team and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The chairman and the board As a long established investment trust company, this principle does not apply should be brought into the to the Company.
process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
Board meetings and the relationship with the manager 12.
Boards and managers should Typically, the Board meets at least ten times each year.
The Chief Executive operate in a supportive, coOfficer who is himself a director, other representatives of the Companys operative and open executive team and a representative of the Company Secretary expect to be environment.
The Board devotes two full days each year to meetings with the Companys investment managers and each investment manager sends representatives at least once a year.
The Chairman seeks to encourage open debate within the Board and a supportive and co-operative relationship with the executive team and with the Companys investment managers, advisors and support staff.
The primary focus at regular The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor investment performance board meetings should be a and all associated matters.
He reports to each Board meeting, at which review of investment investment performance, asset allocation, gearing, marketing and investor performance and associated relations are usually key agenda items.
matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for determining the strategic direction of the attention to overall strategy.
Company and for promoting its success.
At least one of its meetings is devoted entirely to reviewing overall strategy and progress is monitored throughout the year.
The board should regularly The Boards Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of and the review both the performance of, contractual arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief and contractual arrangements Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for reviewing the performance with, the manager or executives and the contractual arrangements of his staff.
The Boards Remuneration of a self-managed company.
31 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles 16.
The board should agree policies The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for all operational with the manager covering key matters.
He operates within agreed parameters and reports to each Board operational issues.
Each of the investment managers operates within the terms of the mandate given to them, as set out in the relevant investment management contract.
Boards should monitor the The Chief Executive Officer and his team monitor the share price and the level of the share price discount discount to net asset value on a daily basis and he reports to every Board or premium if any and, meeting.
if desirable, take action to The Board has a share buy-back programme that seeks to add to the net asset reduce it.
value per share and achieve a sustainable discount of not more than 10%.
The board should monitor and The Chief Executive Officer and his team are responsible for monitoring and evaluate other service evaluating the performance of the Companys various service providers, including providers.
The Boards Audit Committee oversees this process.
The board should regularly The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective monitor the shareholder profile communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works closely with the of the company and put in Chief Executive Officer and there is regular liaison with the Companys place a system for canvassing stockbroker.
There is a process in place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder views and for shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the communicating the boards institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expect to be available to meet the larger shareholders.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee all expect to be present and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The board should normally While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on preparing take responsibility for, and and effecting communications with investors, all major corporate issues are have a direct involvement in, put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, to a Committee thereof.
the content of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The board should ensure that The Board places importance on effective communication with investors and shareholders are provided with approves a marketing programme and budget each year to enable this to be sufficient information for them achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report and the Half Year Report are circulated to understand the risk : reward to shareholders, to those who hold shares through the subsidiary companys balance to which they are products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products exposed by holding the shares.
and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published on-line.
In addition, the Company publishes a fact sheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
32 Annual Report 2010 The Board Meetings of the Board and its Committees The Board is collectively responsible for the success of The number of formal meetings during the year of the the Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a Board and its Committees, and the attendance of the framework of prudent and effective controls that enable individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the table that follows.
Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys Audit Remuneration Articles of Association, and to such approval of the Number of meetings Board Committee Committee shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and ensures that the necessary 1 0 3 3 resources are in place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
H M Henderson 10 3 3 A L C Bell 9 of 9 3 1 The Board has typically met at least ten times a year and R H McGrath 9 3 deals with the most important aspects of the Companys R A Bruce 10 3 affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the A Watson 9 3 monitoring of investment strategy, the review of J E B Bevan 9 investment performance and the extent to which R W Boyle 10 3 borrowings may be used.
The Chief Executive Officer M C Claydon 10 3 is responsible to the Board for the overall management R E Clarke 2 of 2 1 1 of the Company including investment performance, business development, shareholder relations, marketing, Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all investment trust industry matters, administration and or part of the meetings.
The duties of the Chief Executive All the then directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April and the Boards away day in May.
Officer include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the Directors Remuneration investment managers and their terms of reference and The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors on the use of derivatives.
The Chief Executive Officer Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39. reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes confirmation that the Boards investment limits and Accountability and Audit restrictions have been adhered to, including those which The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of govern the Companys tax status as an investment trust.
the accounts is set out on page 40.
The Company receives monthly confirmation from each of the investment managers that they have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their The report of the independent auditors is set out on investment mandates.
The investment managers take pages 41 and 42. decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments and are responsible for effecting those The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, decisions on the best available terms.
The Chairman is including the various investment managers, the responsible for ensuring that the directors are management of the investment portfolio, global custody provided, in a timely manner, with management, which includes the safeguarding of the assets, the regulatory and financial information that is clear, investment administration, management and financial accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief Executive accounting, company secretarial and certain other Officer or otherwise.
administrative requirements and the registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost Board have been defined and there is an agreed of the services offered, including the control systems in procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the duties, to take independent professional advice, if Company.
The Board receives and considers regular necessary, at the Companys expense.
reports from the investment managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board from its other contractors as required.
Board Committees The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The membership of the Audit Committee Internal Control and the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 22, The Board has established an ongoing process for in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 35 and in identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 39. faced by the Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully in place during the year 33 Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Corporate Governance Statement continued under review and up to the date of this annual report.
internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board The Board remains responsible for the Companys system will continue to monitor its system of internal control in of internal control and has conducted its annual review order to provide assurance that it operates as intended of the effectiveness of the system, covering all the and the directors will review at least annually whether a controls, including financial, operational and compliance function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
controls and risk management systems.
This review took Going Concern into account points raised during the year in the regular The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities appraisal of specific areas of risk.
However, such a system that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of has adequate financial resources to continue in failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to against material misstatement or loss.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial The Board routinely reviews the Companys business risks.
In reviewing the position as at the date of These are analysed and recorded in a risk map.
The this report, the Board has considered the guidance on Company receives from its main contractors formal this matter issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
reports which detail the steps taken to monitor the areas See also note 1 b on page 47. of risk and which report the details of any known internal Stewardship and the Exercise of Voting Powers control failures.
The Board receives each year from its It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long term investment managers and its investment administrator success, companies need to maintain high standards of reports on their internal controls: in most cases these corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
include a report from the relevant companys auditors Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is on the control policies and procedures in operation.
invested to comply with best practice in corporate The Companys subsidiary, Witan Investment Services governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation Limited, is authorised and regulated by the Financial of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst Services Authority to provide investment products and recognising that a different approach may be justified in services.
The compliance structures required for these special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, activities, including a compliance manual and a current best practice in corporate governance matters is compliance monitoring programme, have been duly put set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board encourages the Companys appointed The Company has a formal policy for staff to raise in investment managers to engage with companies and to confidence any concerns about possible improprieties, vote proxies, in the best long term interest of Witan whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for shareholders but in accordance with their own appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff comprises investment philosophies.
Where applicable, it monitors only six people including the Chief Executive Officer, the policies of the investment managers in respect of the who are well known to and have frequent formal and UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere in the world it can be informal contact with the members of the Board.
more difficult to vote shares as each country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder notification, The Company does not have an internal audit function.
voting restrictions, registration conditions and share It delegates to third parties the management of its blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
investments and most of its other operations and Therefore, while the Companys investment managers employs only a small staff.
The investment managers and are apprised of the Companys approach to the certain other key contractors are subject to external stewardship of its assets and the importance of sound regulation and most have compliance and internal audit corporate governance, they use their discretion according functions of their own.
The Companys investments are to their knowledge of the relevant circumstances.
held on its behalf by a global custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and administrators is In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys responsible for investment administration, for executive management maintains regular touch with the maintaining accounting records and for preparing management of the investee holdings and will engage financial accounts, management accounts and other when issues arise that are controversial or potentially management information.
The investment performance prejudicial to the interests of Witans shareholders.
of the investment managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for Witan by a company that is By order of the Board independent of all the investment managers.
E Cranmer ACA The corporate company secretary is a company with well For and on behalf of established experience in servicing investment trusts.
The Frostrow Capital LLP, appointment of these and other professional contractors Secretary provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of 15 March 2011 34
