Governance Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance What good governance means to Centrica Sir Roger Carr Chairman I am also pleased to report that as a result of these appointments, Transparency in governance is Centrica is now in full compliance with the Combined Code on something I passionately believe in Corporate Governance.
and, as Chairman, I am proud of Looking forward, next year we will be required to report against the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which replaces the Centricas achievements in this area Combined Code.
I am pleased to report that the Board has over the past year.
reviewed the new UK Code and is supportive of it.
We intend to observe the new UK Code to ensure ongoing good governance Chairmans letter is maintained.
I also welcome the introduction of the new UK Stewardship Code with a view to furthering constructive I am pleased to present Centricas corporate governance report engagement with our major shareholders in 2011. for 2010 on behalf of our Board.
This report has been prepared to provide you with a clear and meaningful explanation of what A more detailed report on our corporate governance arrangements governance means to us as a business and how it will guide is set out on the following pages.
our decision making in the future.
Good governance at all levels is taken seriously at Centrica and it is up to the Board to set the tone and show leadership.
For us, good governance is more than just a set of policies and processes, it is about translating these into meaningful practice.
The Board believes that good practice should flow throughout the Company and should guide the decisions taken by all our employees on a daily basis.
If we achieve this, then we can be sure that we are taking the right actions for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman It is important that we continue to enhance our board structures, 24 February 2011 processes and procedures to ensure that our governance remains relevant and focused on improving our business and driving our strategic priorities.
During 2010 we undertook a number of Contents initiatives.
We reviewed our core governance structures and also enhanced our risk management processes.
We also refreshed our Chairmans letter 40 business principles and communicated them throughout the The Board 41 business during the year to reinforce our core values.
I consider Board performance 42 that these initiatives have helped us to maintain robust processes which both foster good governance and support the needs of Board committees 43 our business.
Audit Committee 44 I believe the drive for transparent reporting has continued to improve Nominations Committee 45 business conduct in recent years.
Recently the Financial Reporting Remuneration Committee 45 Council, under the leadership of Baroness Hogg, has built into the UK Corporate Governance Code an emphasis for organisations to Corporate Responsibility Committee 45 actively consider the make up and diversity of their boards.
The Executive Committee 45 benefits of greater board diversity are clear and this has been a Disclosure Committee 46 positive step forward which I not only welcome but on which Centrica has already taken action.
Compliance statement 46 As I have reported in my Chairmans Statement, we have recently Relations with shareholders 46 appointed Ian Meakins and Margherita Della Valle as Non-Executive Risk management and internal control 46 Directors of the Company and I am proud of Centricas efforts in Going concern 48 reinvigorating the Board.
Centrica undertook an extensive process to look at the diversity of the Board, looking not only at those who Directors responsibility statement 48 had significant experience as directors of listed companies but also Disclosure of information to Auditors 48 those who had other experience and qualities.
indd 40 11 3 11 14:11:40 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 includes reports from the Chief Executive, the Group Finance The Board Director and an assessment of the performance of each Board of Directors business unit.
The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant to Centricas performance.
A clearly defined framework of roles, committee meetings.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this and committee meetings during 2010 are set out in the table below.
supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the Where a Director was not in attendance, this was due to other prior benefit of customers, employees and shareholders.
The Directors work commitments or illness and in respect of Andrew Mackenzie, consider that the Board leads and controls the Group effectively.
due to prolonged overseas business commitments.
Directors who were unable to attend specific Board or committee meetings This report explains how the Board applied the principles of the reviewed the relevant briefing papers and provided their comments Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code during 2010. to the Chairman of the Board or committee, as appropriate.
In All listed companies are subject to the Code, which came into effect addition, any Director who misses a meeting will as a matter of for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008.
The course, receive the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
Company complied fully with the provisions of the Code except for a period from January 2010 to September 2010, as explained on Corporate page 46.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee As reported in the Chairmans letter, the Board reviewed the new UK Number of Corporate Governance Code new UK Code.
Following their review, meetings 10 4 8 34 the Board concluded that no material changes were required to the Sir Roger Carr 10 8 3 current governance processes.
However, the Board has agreed that Sam Laidlaw 10 3 4 each Director shall be subject to annual re-election with effect from Phil Bentley 10 4 the 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM and that the Chairman will Mark Hanafin 10 hold regular development reviews with each Director in 2011.
Nick Luff 10 The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles Chris Weston 10 4 of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys Helen Alexander 10 4 8 3 website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
The Mary Francis 10 4 8 3 4 Directors also have responsibilities and duties under other legislation Andrew and in particular the Companies Act 2006.
Mackenzie 8 3 6 3 4 The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its Paul Rayner 10 3 7 3 approval.
A summary is shown below and the full schedule is i Ian Meakins 3 1 3 1 available for inspection on the Companys website.
i Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board in October 2010 and attended all subsequent The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director has provided Board and committee meetings.
assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and the Board is satisfied that they can dedicate As part of its responsibilities, the Board monitors the development of the necessary amount of time to attend to the Companys affairs.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, each year the Board holds a conference devoted specifically to The Board is responsible for: strategy.
In 2010, the Board conference focused on some of the key strategic issues facing Centrica over the short and long term, development of strategy and major policies: including: the Groups corporate governance and system of internal the current gas supply market: control: electricity market reforms: reviewing performance: investments in gas storage, power generation, renewable approving interim dividend payments and recommending final technology and nuclear power generation: and dividend payments: options for driving further growth in North America and approval of the annual operating plan, financial statements and British Gas.
major acquisitions and disposals: Board constitution and appointments the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including health, safety and environmental matters: and The Board is made up of a balance of Executive Directors and independent Non-Executive Directors which promotes high quality the appointment and removal of Directors and the consideration of the key issues facing Centrica and the Companys Company Secretary.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been approved by the Board meetings Board and are available to view on the Companys website.
The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year as The Non-Executive Directors play a key governance role and bring a key part of its governance framework.
During the year, the Board an external view to the Boards deliberations through their had eight scheduled meetings and two unscheduled supplementary knowledge, experience and insight from other sectors.
Three other committee meetings of the Board were held annual review of corporate governance, the Board considered the which considered technical aspects of financing arrangements, independence of each Non-Executive Director other than the ongoing projects and potential acquisitions.
Chairman against the criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive Director remained independent.
During the year the The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently business issues for the Company over the short, medium and of management.
Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which facilitate meaningful debate on the performance and future direction of the Company.
At each scheduled meeting the Board considers the key issues affecting each part of the Group.
This Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 41 11 3 11 14:11:40 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during the The 2010 process used the same key themes from 2009 so that selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors to the performance could be measured on a consistent basis.
This process is described in the section on the Nominations in 2010, the Board was asked to specifically assess how well the Committee on page 45.
Board had addressed the key areas for improvement identified in the 2009 evaluation and how well the Board had progressed against Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive the key strategic areas highlighted for action in 2010.
Director from 1 October 2010 and Margherita Della Valle was also appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director from The Board believes that this evaluation process leads to a thorough 1 January 2011. and meaningful assessment of how well the Board is equipped to lead the Company.
It also clarifies what actions need to be taken to The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles require the maintain and improve the Boards performance.
Board to consider any potential conflicts of interests.
The Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises each Directors reported The evaluation report for 2010 concluded that the Board and its actual and potential conflicts of interest regularly and at least committees continue to operate effectively.
Each Director abstained from approval of their own actions and improvements were identified.
In particular, the following reported conflicts.
enhancements were identified, which will be incorporated into the future programme for the Board and its committees: During 2010 and in accordance with the Code and the Articles, all Directors were subject to reappointment by shareholders at the first a greater focus on the North American market: AGM following their appointment to the Board and thereafter were a deeper understanding of the markets, in particular the subject to reappointment at least every three years.
Following competitive landscape and the political and regulatory appointment, Non-Executive Directors are subject to review by the environment, within which the Group operates: Nominations Committee and can serve up to a maximum of nine years.
As recommended by the new UK Code, the Board has additional in-depth discussions on selected key risks and internal decided that all Directors will be proposed for reappointment at control issues: each AGM, with effect from the 2011 AGM.
additional briefings on developments in financial reporting and Details of the Directors of the Company, including their biographies associated issues: and and their Board committee memberships, are set out on pages a greater focus on succession planning.
Details of Directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the Remuneration Report on In addition to the above process, during the year the Senior pages 50 to 63.
Independent Director chaired a meeting of the independent NonExecutive Directors in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the Directors indemnities and insurance Chairmans performance.
The conclusion of the appraisal was that the Chairman continued to provide effective leadership of the Board.
In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors and the The Chief Executives performance is reviewed regularly by the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Deeds were in place Chairman and the Chief Executive reviews the performance of throughout the year and up to the date of this report and revised the other Executive Directors and the other members of the deeds were granted during 2010 to reflect changes introduced by Executive Team.
The Company also maintains directors In accordance with the provisions of the new UK Code, the Board and officers liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
intends that the evaluation of the Board will be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Board evaluation in 2008 was Board performance conducted using an external consultant.
In 2009 and 2010 the Board evaluation evaluations were conducted internally and hence the Board intends to conduct an externally facilitated review in 2011.
The Board recognises the value of a formal process whereby there is a comprehensive, open and honest assessment of how well they The Board and its committees will continue to review critically are performing so that the Board continues to deliver effective their procedures, effectiveness and development throughout the leadership of the Company.
Therefore, each year the Board coming year.
undertakes a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation was prepared and carried out by the Chairman and the General Counsel & Company Secretary in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
The evaluation process involved the use of a comprehensive questionnaire, which was considered and completed by each of the Directors.
A consolidated report of the output from the detailed evaluation exercise was prepared for review and consideration by the Board.
Key evaluation themes were identified in the review in 2009, including: Board composition: Board expertise and knowledge: strategic oversight and delegation of powers: efficiency and effectiveness: Board support: risk management and internal control governance: succession planning: and improving Board performance.
indd 42 11 3 11 14:11:41 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 the power generation market: Board development a review of the conclusions and the legal, regulatory and All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive operational impact on the industry following the Deepwater induction briefing tailored to meet their individual needs.
The Horizon incident: Chairman and General Counsel & Company Secretary are responsible for delivering an effective induction programme for newly customer loyalty: appointed Directors.
corporate responsibility strategy: Ian Meakins was appointed to the Board in October 2010 and acquisitions and investments: following his appointment he discussed with the General Counsel & Company Secretary what briefings and meetings would most be of the impact of the Bribery Act 2010: and benefit to him to ensure an effective induction.
Further to these corporate governance developments.
discussions, an induction programme was devised for Ian Meakins which included: The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
They are also able to seek briefings from members of the Executive Team: independent professional advice at the Companys expense in briefings on key areas of the business: respect of their duties.
an overview of the Groups risk management processes, the key risks facing the business and the internal audit function: Board committees a comprehensive briefing in respect of corporate governance in The Board has delegated some of its authority to committees to Centrica: and carry out certain tasks.
The Board reviews each committees terms of reference against best practice and approves revised terms on follow up on any actions arising from these sessions.
The full written terms of reference for the Audit, A similar process was undertaken following the appointment of Remuneration, Nominations, Corporate Responsibility, Executive Margherita Della Valle as a Non-Executive Director with effect from and Disclosure Committees are available on the Companys website 1 January 2011. and hard copies are available upon request.
Ongoing development and training is also provided to all Directors at All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are members of Board and committee meetings.
During the year, Directors received the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Board regular updates and presentations on changes and developments considers that this membership structure currently provides a to the business and to the legislative and regulatory environments consistency of membership within each of these principal in which the Group operates.
committees and avoids undue reliance on particular members.
Membership of these committees is reviewed regularly.
Minutes of In particular, the Board was briefed on the following key issues committee meetings are made available to all Directors on a timely during 2010: basis and the chairmen of each of the Board committees provide an overview of the North American business environment: updates to the Board at the next Board meeting.
the competitive landscape and market conditions for oil and A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive gas prices: committees structure is set out below.
Details of each Board committee, including membership, are set out in the following health, safety and environmental issues.
In particular the Board committee reports.
received a briefing on issues relating to nuclear power generation: Board governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Disclosure Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Health, Safety Investment Management and Environment Sub-Committee Committee Committee Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 43 11 3 11 14:11:41 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee Audit Committee The Committee considered a number of key issues during the year, including: Audit Committee members: considerations in respect of reporting throughout the year: Paul Rayner Chairman governance structures, in particular the links between the Groups Helen Alexander Audit Committee, business unit level governance and governance of the Groups legal entities: Mary Francis information technology general controls and management Andrew Mackenzie framework: Ian Meakins from 1 October 2010 internal audit strategy: Margherita Della Valle from 1 January 2011 security, data protection and identity and access management: In accordance with the Code, Paul Rayner and Margherita Della and Valle are identified as having recent and relevant financial ongoing compliance with the undertakings in respect of experience.
The Board has determined that each member of the Centrica Storage Limited and compliance reporting in general.
Committee is independent and that the membership meets the requirements of the Code.
The Committee members also participated in two training sessions during the year, one of which was facilitated by PwC and the other Audit Committee responsibilities conducted by Centrica Energy senior management.
The training The key function of the Audit Committee is to review the sessions focused on bespoke issues on risk management in effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal the Group.
controls together with the procedures for the identification, PwC has been the external auditor of the Group since the demerger assessment and reporting of risks.
In accordance with its terms of Centrica in 1997.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations of reference, the Committee is authorised by the Board to: through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the AGM, or at monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys Financial any time during the year, on the appointment, reappointment or Statements: removal of the external auditor.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
Accordingly, review the Companys internal financial controls, internal following consideration, the Audit Committee has recommended control and risk management systems: to the Board that a resolution to reappoint PwC be proposed at monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal the 2011 AGM and the Board has accepted and endorsed audit function: this recommendation.
establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the The Board has approved policies that restrict the types of non-audit external auditors, including monitoring their independent work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and restrict status: and the employment by the Group of former employees of the external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, within categories that the establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud external auditors are permitted to carry out under the Board prevention arrangements within the Company.
approved policies, is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
At each Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
The Groups of these meetings, the Committee met privately with the external policy to seek competitive tenders for all major consultancies and auditors, and separately with the Head of Audit & Risk who advisory projects is set out in note 13 to the Financial Statements is responsible for internal audit.
In addition, the Committee was provided with reports of all non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditors and, The Committee received regular comprehensive reports from the on a regular basis, a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred Head of Audit & Risk, senior management and the external during the year.
The Committee also requested clear objectives, timescales and achievement In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & milestones against which performance could be clearly Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting measured in respect of all ongoing issues.
Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
Paul Rayner Audit Committee Chairman 44 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 44 11 3 11 14:11:42 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work Nominations Committee members: carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, Sir Roger Carr Chairman including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Code in setting Executive Directors remuneration, is included Helen Alexander within the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 63.
Mary Francis Sam Laidlaw Corporate Responsibility Committee Andrew Mackenzie Paul Rayner Corporate Responsibility Committee members: Ian Meakins from 1 October 2010 Mary Francis Chairman Margherita Della Valle from 1 January 2011 Phil Bentley Sam Laidlaw Nominations Committee responsibilities Andrew Mackenzie The Committees membership is comprised of a majority Catherine May of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: Chris Weston make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the A report detailing the work carried out by the Corporate appointment, reappointment or replacement of Directors: Responsibility Committee during the year is included within the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 24 to 29. devise and consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior executives: and regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Executive Committee Board and to recommend any proposed changes to the Board.
Executive Committee members: In making its appointment recommendations, the Committee Sam Laidlaw Chairman reviews the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience Phil Bentley on the Board against current and future requirements of the Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required Grant Dawson candidate attributes.
Mark Hanafin Nick Luff Catherine May Sir Roger Carr Anne Minto OBE Nominations Committee Chairman Chris Weston The members of the Executive Committee are those shown above and their biographical details are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Executive Committee responsibilities The Committee is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups operations within the limits set out in the Groups Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee delegation of authority.
The Committee also has a schedule of The Committee met on three occasions during the year and matters specifically reserved for its approval.
considered the proposed appointments of Ian Meakins and The Committee has delegated certain tasks to the subMargherita Della Valle.
In addition to these appointments, the committees below and receives regular updates from each one: Committee considered: Group Risk Management Committee: the reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation at the 2010 AGM: Health, Safety and Environment Committee: and Board committee memberships: and Investment Sub-Committee.
that Directors appointments outside of Centrica would still allow sufficient time for those Directors to devote to their duties at Centrica.
In particular, the Committee considered Sam Laidlaw being appointed the lead non-executive board member for the Department of Transport and Sir Roger Carrs appointment as deputy president of the CBI and his nomination as president of the CBI from June 2011.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 45 11 3 11 14:11:42 P o l i c i e s a n d p y r o t i c r T o e N G P d h C N E E I u R t O N M T F r I N u N D S O A e U T R S a L A R M P E s L A O S C A d N Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available to Disclosure Committee shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed inappropriate.
Disclosure Committee members: Centricas website contains up-to-date information for shareholders Sam Laidlaw Chairman and other interested parties including Annual Reports, shareholder circulars, share price information, news releases, presentations to Grant Dawson the investment community and information on shareholder services.
Nick Luff Centrica hosted a Capital Markets Day in March 2010, comprising a series of presentations to institutional investors and analysts on Disclosure Committee responsibilities the Companys strategic priorities.
The presentations were also The Committee met on a number of occasions during the year made available on the Companys website.
Centrica also took the and is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and opportunity in 2010 to meet with the UK Shareholders Association controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside UKSA, which is a leading independent organisation representing information.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the interests of private shareholders.
Members of the UKSA who regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses attended, received a summary presentation on the Company and and other documents issued by the Company comply with any had the opportunity to ask questions directly to members of applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
Risk management and internal control Compliance statement As the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control subject to the Code, which is available from the Financial Reporting and risk management, and considers this to be fundamental to the Council www.
achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company Governance, risk and control framework complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, with the exception of provision A.
3.2 which states that at least half of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Following Paul Walshs retirement as a Non-Executive Director in 2009 and Chris Westons appointment as an Executive Director also in 2009, the constitution of the Board did not meet provision A.
However in October 2010, Ian Meakins was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
As a result of this appointment, the membership of the Board has been fully compliant with provision A.
3.2 of the Code since October 2010.
Whilst the Board recognises the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors was not in line with the Code throughout the year, it believes that it still had a Board and robust governance structure during the period of non-compliance Sub-committees and that no individual or small group of individuals dominated the Boards decision making.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining an effective investor relations and communication programme.
The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director held regular meetings with the Companys major shareholders during the year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the The above diagram shows some of the key elements in the meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented to governance, risk and control framework by which Centricas major investors and analysts.
The Chairman also met a number of operations are conducted.
The work of the Board and its submajor institutional shareholders during the year in order to gain a committees are at the heart of the process.
The Board and its first-hand understanding of their concerns and key issues.
committees set objectives, performance targets and policies The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity designed to achieve a balanced and transparent assessment of the to develop further their understanding of the Company and to ask risks facing the Groups operations and to measure the effectiveness questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, of the key controls in place to manage them.
The work of the Board including the Annual Report.
The Company intends to send to is underpinned by clear delegations of authority, effective policies shareholders the Notice of AGM and any related papers at least 20 and procedures covering key areas of Group operation together working days before the meeting.
All Directors are invited to attend with a set of business principles and human resource processes each AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairman and the Chief Executive which are communicated to Centricas staff.
present a review of the Groups business.
A poll is conducted on In addition, mechanisms are in place to ensure that both strategic each resolution at all Company general meetings.
All shareholders and operational risks are identified and assessed and that the also have the opportunity to cast their votes in respect of proposed controls designed to manage such risks are operating effectively.
resolutions by proxy, either electronically or by post.
Following the These mechanisms are reinforced through regular performance AGM, the voting results for each resolution are published and are management and business reviews.
available on the Companys website.
Lastly, it is important that the effectiveness of the framework is assessed impartially.
There is therefore a programme of independent 46 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 46 11 3 11 14:11:43 N I L S G C R e A E E E A T t T K A C M N a I P R A T S T I I N e g S V R A o I G e T E p l I M E l e E S e N D T a n d v a l u e s Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 reviews by the internal audit function which is designed to cover reinforced understanding of Centricas business principles through the key processes and risks.
the introduction of a process for extended self-certification so that more than 3,000 managers throughout the Group have affirmed As with any such system, the processes are designed to manage that they have a full understanding of the principles we believe rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives and underpin good governance at Centrica: can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
implementation of a comprehensive training programme in respect of controls awareness across the Group: and Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out in pages 30 to 36 of the Business Review.
introduction of a group policy portal on the Companys corporate intranet which allows all employees to easily find the key policies 2010 developments they must follow to ensure Centrica operates professionally, fairly and with integrity.
Centrica undertook a number of activities designed to ensure that its governance arrangements remained appropriate to its business risk Centrica believes that the above steps will help maintain good profile.
These included the following: governance for the business going forward.
a review of the core governance committee structure and enhancements to the risk management reporting processes: Group risk governance structure Board of Directors Executive Audit Committee Committee Group Risk Management Committee Group Financial Risk Centrica Management Committee Controls Board Centrica Information European & North American Financial Business Risk Controls Steering Risk Steering Risk Management Committees Management Committees Group Group The above diagram shows some of the key elements of Centricas risk governance structure, which is explained in further details below.
Group Risk Management Committee Financial Risk Management are provided in note 4 to the Financial The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC plays a pivotal Statements on page 83. role in the governance of risks.
Each of Centricas business units has Centrica Controls Board a Business Risk Management Committee whose role is to evaluate, The Centrica Controls Board, whose members are Nick Luff, report and advise on material risks, and to consider the adequacy of the Director of Financial Control, the Head of Audit & Risk and controls and the actions planned to mitigate those risks.
The most Finance Directors for each business unit, is responsible for ensuring material risks are then reported to the GRMC so that it has a clear that appropriate internal controls are in place over key operational understanding of Centricas aggregate risk profile, and that control and financial reporting processes and related IT systems.
processes are in place to ensure monitoring and management of significant risks.
The GRMC is chaired by Nick Luff, the Group The responsibilities of the Centrica Controls Board are discharged through the Centrica Controls Steering Group CCSG and the Finance Director, and membership includes senior management from both business units and corporate functions.
Information Risk Steering Group IRSG.
Group Financial Risk Management Committee The CCSG monitors the risks and associated controls over financial A separate specialised process to manage financial risks is also reporting processes, including the process by which Centricas Group Financial Statements are prepared for publication the required to achieve adequate levels of control.
The role of the Group Financial Risk Management Committee GFRMC is therefore to consolidation process.
The financial reporting controls are focus specifically on financial risks as part of the overall risk monitored and maintained through the use of internal control frameworks which address key financial reporting risks, including management profile.
risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
Additional monitoring of the Groups financial risks is performed by Effectiveness is assessed through quarterly self-certification and local Financial Risk Management Committees covering Europe and independent testing of the controls.
Material financial risk exposures are then reported The IRSG monitors the Groups information systems control to the GFRMC for consideration.
The GFRMC also monitors the design and implementation of financial risk policies and compliance environment, providing robust challenge to the business units to with Group-wide financial risk limits and appetite.
Quarterly ensure that information systems risk management remains effective and appropriate for the Group.
It is also responsible for monitoring overviews of the GFRMCs activities are provided to the GRMC.
the progress of key information security projects.
The GFRMC is chaired by Nick Luff and membership comprises senior finance and risk personnel.
Further details of the Groups Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 BOL10723 centrica.
indd 47 11 3 11 14:11:43 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Executive Committee and Audit Committee Directors responsibility statement The Groups material risks are also reported to each meeting of the The Directors, who are named on pages 38 and 39, are responsible Executive Committee which regularly undertakes in depth reviews for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report of specific risks as appropriate.
and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law At each of its meetings in 2010 the Audit Committee received a and regulations.
Group risk report, which provided an assessment of the key risks Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements facing the Company and the adequacy of the associated controls.
Under that law the Directors have prepared In addition, the Audit Committee assessed the activity of the Group the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International internal audit function including details of findings from reviews Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European conducted against a plan which is approved annually by the Union, and the parent company Financial Statements in accordance Committee.
These reports, supplemented by management with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice presentations, enable the Audit Committee to track issues, monitor United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under performance and ensure that necessary actions are taken to company law the Directors must not approve the financial remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Company is also aware that the integrity and reputation of view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the Companys public financial reporting is of utmost importance.
the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these In addition to the controls described above, there are a number Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: of further processes and steps to provide assurance over the select suitable accounting policies and then apply completeness and accuracy of Centricas public financial them consistently: reporting, including: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable review by members of the Executive Committee: and prudent: verification exercises: state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group review and approval by the Board.
and parent company Financial Statements respectively: and Centrica Storage and other Group companies prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to undertakings given unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will to the Secretary of State for Business Innovation & Skills, operates continue in business.
separately but to the same standards of internal control and risk management as the rest of the Group.
The internal control and risk The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting management processes of newly-acquired companies are also records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys integrated with those of the Group.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them The Boards review of the system of internal control to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors A more inclusive process of hierarchical self-certification has been Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, established throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS internal controls and compliance with Group business principles and Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of policies, are assessed.
In 2010 the self-certification process was the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps completed at year end.
The results of the annual process, together for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with the conclusions of the internal reviews by Internal Audit, inform Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the annual assessment performed by the Audit Committee.
pages 38 and 39 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period from accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair 1 January 2010 to the date of this report, and is satisfied that the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board will continue Group: and the Directors Report contained in pages 4 to 63 routinely to challenge management in order to ensure that the includes a fair review of the development and performance of the system of internal control is constantly improving.
business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Going concern Disclosure of information to Auditors After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are aware, there is no future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details unaware: and they have taken all steps that they ought to have of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit provided in note 4 of the Financial Statements on page 83. information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
The Company has not entered into an auditor liability limitation agreement with its Auditors during the year.
