REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS DIRECTORS INFORMATION Directors are continually updated on BTs business, the competitive Election and re-election and regulatory environments in which it operates, technology and All directors are required by BTs articles of association to be elected corporate responsibility matters and other changes affecting BT and by shareholders at the first annual general meeting AGM after the communications industry as a whole, by written briengs and their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A director must meetings with senior BT executives.
The Board has an annual subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM at intervals of not more strategy meeting, with regular reviews during the year.
The director may seek re-election.
are also advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and Accordingly, Tony Ball, having been appointed as a director by obligations as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in the Board, retires at the forthcoming AGM and will be proposed for face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
Sir Michael Rake, Ian Livingston and Carl Symon retire by reminded of these duties each year and they are also updated on rotation and will be proposed for re-election.
Details of these changes to the legal, accounting and governance requirements directors contracts letters of appointment are included in the affecting the company and themselves as directors.
During the Report on directors remuneration.
2010 financial year, for example, accounting and governance seminars were held and the Board also received briengs on changes to UK company law and on various corporate governance Meetings attendance matters through monthly Secretarys Reports.
The Chairman also The following table shows the attendance of directors at meetings sends a weekly e-mail to non-executive directors with topical of the Board and Audit, Nominating and Remuneration Committees sector highlights.
Guidelines govern the content, presentation and delivery of papers for each Board meeting, so that the directors have enough Audit Nominating Remuneration information to be properly briefed sufciently far ahead of each Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held Board meeting and at other appropriate times, and to take account 963 5 of their duties as directors.
Number of meetings attended maximum possible Sir Michael Rake 9 9 3 3 3 5 Independent advice a Tony Ball 6 6 2 2 The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their duties, Clay Brendish 9 9 6 6 2 3 to take independent professional advice if necessary, at BTs Tony Chanmugam 9 9 expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of Eric Daniels 9 9 3 3 5 5 the Company Secretary.
Patricia Hewitt 8 9 6 6 2 2 4 4 Phil Hodkinson 9 9 6 6 3 3 Ian Livingston 9 9 Directors and ofcers liability insurance Gavin Patterson 9 9 and indemnity Carl Symon 9 9 6 6 5 5 b Matti Alahuhta 2 2 1 1 For some years, BT has purchased insurance to cover the directors c Maarten van den Bergh 2 3 2 2 1 1 1 and ofcers of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries and the BT d Hanif Lalani 7 7 nominated directors of associated companies and joint ventures e Deborah Lathen 7 7 2 3 against defence costs and civil damages awarded following an action brought against them in that capacity.
The insurance a Appointed to the Board on 16 July 2009 b Resigned from the Board on 31 May 2009 operates to protect the directors and ofcers directly in c Resigned from the Board on 15 July 2009 d Resigned from the Board on 7 January 2010 circumstances where by law BT cannot provide an indemnity and e Resigned from the Board on 31 January 2010 also provides BT, subject to a retention, with cover against the cost of indemnifying a director or officer.
One layer of the programme is ringed-fenced for the directors of BT Group plc.
The cover has been Service agreements extended to provide limited cover for civil fines and penalties.
At The Chairman and executive directors have service agreements, the date on which this report was approved, and throughout the which are approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Information 2010 financial year, the companys wholly owned subsidiary, British about the periods of these contracts is in the Report on directors Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of a remuneration.
similar group of people who would be covered by the above insurance.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover Training and information where the person has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
On appointment, directors take part in an induction programme Interest of management in certain when they receive information about BT, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and transactions membership of the main Board committees, and the powers During and at the end of the 2010 financial year, none of BTs delegated to those committees, BTs corporate governance policies directors was materially interested in any material transaction in and procedures, including the powers reserved to the groups most relation to the groups business and none is materially interested in senior executives, and the latest financial information.
There are any presently proposed material transactions.
also visits to key BT locations and meetings with members of the Operating Committee and other key senior executives.
78 B BT GR T GROUP PL OUP PLC C ANNU ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT & T & FORM FORM 20-F 20-F
