REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to non-audit services Introduction that external auditors may not perform.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Phil Hodkinson.
The other monitors the extent of non-audit services being performed by the members are Clay Brendish, Patricia Hewitt and Carl Symon.
They external auditors and approves any services not included on the are all independent non-executive directors.
They were all list of services the Committee has pre-approved before it is members of the Committee throughout the 2010 financial year.
It also monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the Appointments are for a period of up to three years, which may be auditors.
Details of non-audit services carried out by the external extended for two further three year periods, provided the director auditors are in note 31 in the Notes to the consolidated financial remains independent.
The Board considers that the Committees statements on page 136. members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive The Audit Committee reviews BTs published financial results, the business leadership experience, having held between them various Annual Report and Form 20-F and other published information for prior roles in major business, Government, financial management, statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports its views to the treasury and financial function supervision and that this constitutes Board to assist it in its approval of the results announcements and a broad and suitable mix of business, financial management and IT the Annual Report and Form 20-F. experience.
The Board has reviewed membership of the Committee The Committee also reviews the disclosures made by the Chief and is satisfied that it includes a member in the person of Phil Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication Hodkinson who has recent and relevant financial experience process for the annual report about the design and operation of required for the provisions of the Code and is an audit committee internal controls or weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud financial expert for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
involving management or other employees who have a significant The Committee meets typically five times each financial year: in role in the companys financial controls.
The Board, as required by April, May, July, November and February and the Chairman of the UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the annual report.
Committee reports on the discussions at the next Board meeting.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit and its relationship The Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Director Internal with the external auditors, including plans and performance: and Audit and Director Group Financial Control although not members monitors, reviews and reports on risk management processes and of the Audit Committee, will attend meetings with the agreement the standards of risk management and internal control, including of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditors will the processes and procedures for ensuring that material business normally attend meetings, although they will not be present when risks, including risks relating to IT security, fraud and related the Committee discusses their performance and or remuneration.
matters, are properly identied and managed.
The papers and minutes of the Audit Committee meetings are It reviews promptly all material reports on the company from the also sent to directors who are not members of the Committee.
internal auditors and ensures that appropriate action is taken on issues arising from such reports, including monitoring managements responsiveness to the findings and Committee role recommendations of the internal auditors.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company It reviews the processes for dealing with complaints received by Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
com committees the company regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or The Committee recommends the appointment and reappointment auditing matters and the condential, anonymous submission by of the external auditors and considers their resignation or dismissal, employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting or recommending to the Board appropriate action to appoint new auditing matters whistleblowing procedures, ensuring auditors.
 have been the companys arrangements are in place for the proportionate, independent auditors for many years.
Having reviewed the independence and investigation and appropriate follow up of such matters.
effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee has not During the 2010 financial year, the Committee placed particular considered it necessary to date to require them to tender for the emphasis on reviewing: the effectiveness of internal audit, major audit.
The external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner contract management and accounting, the line of business Audit every five years, and other partners every seven years, that are Committees and the management of risk.
responsible for the group and subsidiary audits.
The partner currently responsible for BTs audit is completing his first year.
The Committee activities Committee discusses with the auditors the scope of their audits before they commence, reviews the results and considers the At each of its meetings, the Committee reviews with the Director formal reports of the auditors and reports the results of those Internal Audit and appropriate executives the implementation and reviews to the Board.
The Committee reviews the auditors effectiveness of key operational and functional change and performance each year by gathering feedback from Committee remedial programmes.
The Committee also sets time aside at each members and senior management, and by considering reports on meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors in the audit rms own internal quality control procedures and the absence of management.
No contractual obligations exist that During the year the Audit Committee business included restrict the groups choice of external audit rm.
consideration of the following: As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be April: necessary to employ the external auditors for certain non-audit BT Global Services contract performance work.
In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the review of the internal control requirements under the Combined external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what Code and Sarbanes-Oxley non-audit services can be provided by the external auditors and the draft Annual Report and Form 20-F. approval processes related to them.
Under those policies, work of a consultancy nature will not be offered to the external auditors May: unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benets to the review of going concern company.
The overall policies and processes to implement them review of external audit and non-audit fees were reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the 62 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
