Audit Committee report I am pleased to present the Companys Audit Committee report reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence for the year ended 31 December 2010, which has been and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: prepared in accordance with the Combined Code and the rules is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on of the UKLA.
the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit services: and The Committee Chairman John Biles reviews reports from the Compliance officer and monitors Committee members Grey Denham the Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures.
Andrew Osborne In the performance of its duties, the Committee has Manfred Wennemer independent access to the internal audit function and to the external Auditors: and may obtain outside professional advice Management attendees as necessary.
Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external Chairman Lars Emilson Auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee Chief Executive Michael Foster outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee has Finance Director Robert Careless written terms of reference that outline its authority and Commercial Director James Deeley responsibilities and the terms of reference are available for Financial Controller John Avery download at www.
These are considered annually Company Secretary Michael Hampson by the Committee and any proposed changes are referred to and General Counsel the Board for approval.
The members of the Audit Committee the Committee are considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant to Report on the Committees activities in 2010 the Combined Code.
Their biographical details are set out on Meetings and attendance pages 36 to 37 and their remuneration on pages 46 to 53.
The Meetings of the Committee are timed to coincide with the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
The Committee Board has satisfied itself that both John Biles and Andrew met on five occasions in 2010 and attendance by Committee Osborne have recent and relevant financial experience, as members is set out in the table on page 39.
In addition, the required by the Combined Code.
members of the Committee met separately with the external Auditors and the Head of Internal Audit to discuss matters In addition to the abovementioned management attendees, without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman of senior representatives of the external Auditors, the Head of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board Internal Audit and senior financial executives from head ofce on the key issues covered by the Committee and the Board and the businesses attend meetings by invitation as required.
also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
During the year the Chairman of the Committee has had additional Role of the Committee meetings with the Companys senior financial managers to The Committee is a sub-committee of the Board, to whom review a range of financial matters, and has also met with the it reports its findings.
Its primary role is to ensure the integrity external and internal Auditors prior to Committee meetings.
of the financial reporting and audit processes, and the Financial reporting maintenance of a sound internal control and risk During 2010 the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial management system.
reporting and related matters including the half yearly and annual In pursuing these objectives, the Committee: financial statements prior to their submission to the Board and the assessment of going concern and liquidity risk.
The monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Committee focused in particular on key accounting policies and Company and any formal announcements relating to practices adopted by the Company and its subsidiaries and the Companys financial performance: significant areas of judgment that impacted reported results including litigation and taxation matters.
In respect of the 2010 makes recommendations to the Board regarding the year-end review, the Committee has taken into account the key adoption of annual and half yearly financial reports and the questions posed by the Financial Reporting Council in their approval of any other formal announcements relating to the paper Challenges for Audit Committees arising from current Companys financial performance: economic conditions and satisfied itself that the Company has reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal taken the appropriate actions and has adequate resources and control and risk management systems: systems in place to deal with current trading conditions.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: makes recommendations to the Board regarding the external Auditors and their terms of appointment: Charter International plc 44 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 External Auditors Internal audit and monitoring of internal control issues The Committee annually performs a review of the effectiveness of The Committee has reviewed the results of the audits the Companys external Auditors, and has recommended to the undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the Board that  LLP, who have been the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, Companys auditors for a number of years, be re-appointed as including the implementation of recommendations made by the the external Auditors of the Company.
It also reviewed and approved the internal audit plan satisfied as to the independence of the external Auditors for the coming year and the level of resources allocated to the following a review at its meeting on 2 December 2010 and has internal audit function.
received written conrmation from the external Auditors to this During 2010 internal audit tracked the status of work done effect.
The external Auditors are required to rotate the Group throughout the Group in response to external Auditors audit partner every five years and other key partners every management letter recommendations.
The annual review of the seven years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting effectiveness of the internal audit function was conducted in the Companys choice of external auditor.
In accordance with 2010 and was based primarily on guidelines issued by the its remit, the Committee reviewed and adopted the external Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Auditors plans for the audit of the Companys 2010 financial Committee reviewed the reports from the internal audit function statements.
In approving the terms of engagement for the and the external Auditors on the Companys systems of internal audit, the Committee considered the proposed audit fee control and reported to the Board on the results of these and associated expenses.
During the year, internal audit carried out audits The Committee is responsible for the development, at companies accounting for 36 per cent of turnover and implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on 81 per cent of profit.
Fewer significant and important points external audit and the provision of some other appropriate have been identied which demonstrates an improving trend services by the external Auditors.
The Committee has reviewed of internal control.
those non-audit services provided by the external Auditors Further details of the Companys system of internal control and throughout the year in accordance with the Companys policy its policies and procedures can be found in the Corporate on the provision of other services by the external Auditors.
Governance report on pages 39 to 43.
This policy notes that such services are likely to fall within the following types: Whistleblowing The Companys whistleblowing policy was monitored by the financial statements and external reports: Committee at its meetings throughout the year.
All issues raised acquisitions: through the Companys whistleblowing procedures during the year were considered and follow-up actions were taken as and disposals: when required.
Most whistleblowing issues were subject to independent follow-up by internal audit, the exceptions mainly taxation: and being human resources-related issues.
At the end of 2010 a new whistleblowing mechanism, It identies three categories of non-audit services: permitted MySafeWorkPlace, was approved and has subsequently engagements that require no specic approval: permitted been launched, allowing employees to anonymously report engagements requiring the approval of the Committee any suspected workplace incidents.
Chairman: and engagements that are not permitted.
The On behalf of the Committee Companys policy does not permit the engagement of the external Auditors for work on commercial due diligence in John Biles connection with acquisitions.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 17 February 2011 The total fees paid to the external Auditors were 3.9million of which 3.0million related to the statutory audits of the parent Company, consolidated accounts, subsidiary undertakings and other assurance-related services.
The non-audit fees of 0.9million represent 23percent of the total fees paid to the external Auditor.
Further details of the fees paid to the external Auditors of the Company can be found in note 4 to the financial statements on page 75.
Charter International plc 45 Annual Report 2010
