2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 Corporate governance The Company monitors its compliance with the requirements of Attendance at Board and Committee meetings 2010 the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Committee Code on a continuous basis.
The Combined Code was revised Board Audit Nominations Remuneration during the year under review and the revisions became effective from 1 January 2011, after which it was called the UK Corporate Meetings attended: Governance Code.
The Board is of the opinion that in respect Lars Emilson 9 9 n a 2 2 4 4 of the period from 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2010 the Michael Foster 9 9 n a 2 2 n a Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Robert Combined Code with only one exception.
The service contracts Careless 9 9 n a n a n a of Michael Foster and Robert Careless contain liquidated James Deeley 9 9 n a n a n a damages clauses, which are in contrast to requirement B.
1.5 of John Biles 9 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 the Combined Code for outgoing directors to mitigate their loss.
Grey Denham 8 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 The Board feels that these arrangements are not excessive and John Neill 7 9 n a n a n a serve to balance the interests of shareholders with the need to Andrew ensure the retention of these individuals.
The policy has been Osborne 7 9 5 5 2 2 4 4 revised with regard to the service contracts of new Executive Manfred Directors and hence the service contract of James Deeley Wennemer 8 9 4 5 2 2 3 4 contains no such provision.
The graph below illustrates how the Board spent its time at Board meetings in 2010.
1 Directors a The Board How the Board spends its time The Board conducts itself in such a way as to provide leadership to the Company and its subsidiaries and their respective employees.
It is committed to the highest standards Environmental health & safety, risk 11% of corporate governance and to the delivery of enhanced Legal and corporate governance 17% shareholder value in a manner consistent with sound business Operations strategy 25% Finance 21% practices and proper standards of the Companys Corporate Other 26% Responsibility Report CR.
In providing such leadership, the Board focuses on integrity and personal responsibility with the overriding objective of creating shareholder value.
The Board operates in accordance with a Management and Governance Framework the Framework.
This has been approved and adopted by the Board, and consolidates those policies which govern the management and governance of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Framework contains details of: a the The powers and authorities retained by the Board include: specic powers that the Board has retained b the authority that has been delegated to the Board Committees and their the approval of annual and half year results, interim terms of reference and c the role of the Board, the Chairman management statements and associated announcements: and the Chief Executive.
The Framework is kept under regular the membership, authority and terms of reference of review and modied as and when new situations, requirements Board committees: or developments in best practice arise.
The Board ensures that the membership of its committees is refreshed so that undue corporate strategy: reliance is not placed on individual Directors.
The Board meets regularly and there are seven scheduled meetings for 2011. significant nancing arrangements: The Board holds an annual strategy conference at which it matters relating to share capital including employee considers and determines the strategic plans for the Companys share schemes and share options : businesses.
No individuals other than the Committee chairman and the members are entitled to be present at meetings of the contracts or expenditures in excess of certain Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, although monetary thresholds: others including the Executive Directors and the external Auditors may attend at the prior invitation of the relevant adoption of annual budgets: and committee chairman.
approval of appointments of Directors to the Board and the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Subject to these retained powers and authorities, the day-to-day management of the Companys subsidiaries resides with the boards of those subsidiaries.
Any concerns that the Non-Executive Directors may have regarding either the administration of the Company and its subsidiaries, or any proposed actions, are recorded in the minutes of the Company where an alternative resolution cannot be found.
The Company has provided its Directors with appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal proceedings and other claims against them.
Charter International plc 39 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued b Board Committees c Chairman and Chief Executive i Standing Committee Lars Emilson is Chairman and Michael Foster is Chief Executive Composition: Any two Directors of the Company.
The Board believes that there is a dened division of responsibilities between both roles.
The Chairman Role: The Committee is responsible for taking necessary has primary responsibility for leading the Board, for ensuring its steps that are ancillary to and required in order to progress effectiveness, and for ensuring that good communications are transactions that have been approved in principle by the maintained with shareholders, while the Chief Executive has Board and which relate to the Company, to review and make responsibility for running the Companys businesses.
Lars recommendations to the Board in respect of the Policies and Emilson has no significant commitments that require disclosure Procedures Manual and determine the remuneration and other in relation to his Chairmanship.
The Chairman periodically terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive meets with the Non-Executive Directors without the other Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors present as well as maintaining contact should they wish to raise any issues with him outside the formal ii Nominations Committee setting of the Board meetings.
At least once a year the Senior Composition: Lars Emilson Chairman, Michael Foster, John Non-Executive Director chairs a meeting of the Non-Executive Biles, Grey Denham, Andrew Osborne and Manfred Wennemer.
Directors without the Chairman present.
All of the members of the Committee, excluding Michael Foster, are considered independent Non-Executive Directors pursuant d Board balance and independence to the Combined Code and accordingly a majority of the The Board believes that its current structure provides the members are independent.
correct balance of skills and experience for the business and would allow for any changes to the Boards composition Role: The Committee is responsible for making to be managed without undue disruption, whilst ensuring recommendations to the Board concerning appointments that the presence of six Non-Executive Directors prevents a to the Board, including evaluating the skills, knowledge and concentration of power and inuence in a small number of experience required and setting a job description for specic individuals.
The Board has determined that, with the exception appointments.
In fullling its role in respect of new appointments, of John Neill who is no longer considered to be independent by the Committee generally seeks advice and assistance from virtue of his combined length of service on the Boards of the external search consultants to identify, benchmark and select Company and Charter plc and his relationship with the Unipart appropriate candidates.
The Board of Charter International plc Group of Companies, all of the Non-Executive Directors reviewed plans for orderly management succession in relation including the Chairman are regarded as independent.
The to both Board and senior management appointments at its Board does not consider that there exist any relationships annual strategy conference in September 2010.
The Board or circumstances likely to affect the judgement of any Nonbelieves that this provided the necessary reassurance that Executive Director.
The Board greatly values the contribution appropriate plans have been adopted to ensure that the and experience of John Neill and recommends his re-election correct balance of skills and experience are maintained at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM as a on the Board and within the senior management of the Non-Executive Director.
No Executive Director currently holds Company and its subsidiaries.
a non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
iii Remuneration Committee e Information and professional development Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and The Company Secretary, under the guidance of the Chairman, work of the Committee during the year under review can be is responsible for ensuring good information ows within the found in the Remuneration Committee report on page 46.
All Directors of the Company have iv Disclosure Committee access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary Composition: The Committee comprises the three and may take independent professional advice on any matter Executive Directors.
relating to the Company at the Companys expense.
In advance of Board and committee meetings, Directors and relevant Role: The Committee is primarily responsible for the creation committee members receive detailed papers on the matters and maintenance of appropriate procedures, systems and to be considered, enabling them to request further clarification controls to ensure compliance by the Company with its or additional information and to participate fully in discussions.
obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, DTR and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
through the Chairman, on all governance matters and best In particular, it has responsibility for the determination, on a practice.
The Company has a comprehensive induction process timely basis, of the disclosure treatment of material information for all Directors when they join the Board.
This includes a and designing, implementing and evaluating disclosure controls detailed information pack, which combines publicly available and procedures that operate within the Company and its information, such as the Annual Report and product subsidiaries.
The Committee also has responsibility for information, with condential brieng notes on the Companys identifying inside information, for the purpose of maintaining nancing arrangements, corporate structures, management the Companys insider lists as required by the DTRs.
accounts, advisers and other relevant information.
In addition brieng meetings are organised with key members of the v Audit Committee Board and senior management and visits are arranged to Details regarding the membership, role, responsibilities and the Companys businesses.
Where appropriate, Directors work of the Committee during the year under review can be meet with major shareholders in the Company as part of the found in the Audit Committee report on page 44. induction process.
Directors are also provided with details of relevant external courses, which they can attend on an ongoing basis.
Charter International plc 40 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 f Performance evaluation 2 Accountability and Audit Evaluation of the Board and its principal committees is a Financial reporting & Directors responsibilities conducted by gathering feedback from the relevant Board The following paragraphs set out the responsibilities of the members.
This feedback is gathered from two sources: a a Directors in relation to the consolidated financial statements for condential questionnaire eliciting both measurable data and the Group and the financial statements for the Company.
The free-format responses and b individual interviews.
The process reports of the external Auditors, shown on page 59, set out is run by the Charter HR Director who collates the results and their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
presents them to the Chairman and the Board.
The individual Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as amended the interviews are between the Chairman and Board members who Jersey Companies Law, the Directors are responsible for give their feedback on Board performance against a structured preparing financial statements for the Company in respect of agenda.
Board members also give more general comment each of its financial periods.
The Companys financial on the performance of the Board and its committees.
The statements are required to show a true and fair view of, or be Chairman is responsible for conducting the Chief Executives presented fairly in all material respects, so as to show: i the performance review.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the profit or loss of the Company for the financial period covered Senior Independent Director, are responsible for evaluating the by such financial statements: and ii the state of affairs of the performance of the Chairman.
In doing so, they also take Company at the end of such financial period.
The Companys account of the views of the Executive Directors.
The Chief financial statements for each of its financial periods are required Executive conducts individual evaluations of the Executive to be prepared in accordance with the generally accepted Directors as part of the Companys formal performance accounting principles adopted by the Company and to specify management process.
Performance is assessed against such generally accepted accounting principles.
The results of the 2010 questionnaire and financial statements are prepared in accordance with UK the individual meetings were summarised in a paper submitted generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP.
to the Board by the Charter HR Director on 2 December 2010.
Although the Company is not required to prepare consolidated This considered the areas that the Directors identied for financial statements for the Group under the Jersey Companies improvement and set out the way in which they will be Law, it is required to prepare them under the Listing Rules of addressed.
In addition, careful attention was given to those the Financial Services Authority.
The consolidated financial areas that recorded different ratings since the similar exercise statements for the Group are prepared in accordance with in 2009.
The Board was unanimous in its agreement with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted assessment that the Board, its committees and individuals by the European Union.
continued to be effective and that there had been an overall improvement in effectiveness in 2010.
The Board valued In preparing both the consolidated financial statements for the continuity of approach and the total condentiality of the Group and the financial statements for the Company, the questionnaire.
the Directors were required to: The Board has noted the recommendation of the UK Corporate 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply Governance Code that the evaluation of the Board of FTSE 350 them consistently: companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years and it will undertake further consideration of this position 2 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable in 2011. and prudent: g Re-election 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed Governance code, the Board has resolved that all and explained: and Directors should stand for re-election annually at each 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern AGM.
Accordingly, all of the Directors will stand for basis, unless they consider them to be inappropriate.
re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
h Directors conicts of interest The Company has procedures in place to deal with Directors conicts of interest and these procedures have operated effectively.
Charter International plc 41 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued The Directors are responsible under the Jersey Companies Law i Assessment of business risk for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which A system of risk identication, assessment and evaluation are sufficient to show and explain its transactions and that are of controls is embedded within the Companys management such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the processes.
Strategic risks and opportunities arising from financial position of the Company and to enable the Directors changes in the business environment are regularly reviewed to ensure that the Companys financial statements comply with by the senior management and formally discussed by the the Jersey Companies Law.
The Directors are required to have Board.
Risks relating to key activities within the operating the Companys financial statements for each of the Companys businesses and at the Companys head ofce are assessed on financial periods audited, and for this purpose, to provide the a continuous basis and reported to the Board as appropriate.
Auditors with a right of access to the Companys records and ii Control environment to provide them with such information and explanations as they Under the Framework described on page 39, the Board sets think necessary for the performance of their duties as auditors.
overall policy and approves the core policies and procedures The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to be adopted by all of its subsidiaries.
A well-dened to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries organisational structure with clear operating procedures and, in that context, to have proper regard to the establishment and lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the established.
There are procedures for appraisal, review and prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
authorisation of matters of signicance, including investments, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and capital expenditure, borrowings, guarantees, indemnities and integrity of the Companys website.
The requirements of material contracts.
Jersey Companies Law and UK legislation which govern the preparation and dissemination of financial statements iii Information and communication may differ from the requirements of applicable legislation The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive in other jurisdictions.
system for reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board, including: The Directors consider that they have taken the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in the the preparation and review of annual budgets and monthly paragraphs above.
results and forecasts: Going concern a review of the businesses at each Board meeting, focusing After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable on any new risks arising for example, those relating to expectation that the Company and its subsidiaries have proposed major investments and key changes in the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for markets : and the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing both the consolidated meetings between various Executive Directors and financial statements for the Group and the financial statements operational management.
iv Control procedures b Internal control Detailed operational procedures are developed for each The Board has overall responsibility for the maintenance of key business activity embodying appropriate controls.
The a system of internal control.
The Audit Committee has been implications of changes in law and regulations, including those formally delegated responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness for financial reporting, are taken into account within these of the system of internal control.
The processes to manage the procedures.
Procedures are established to safeguard the key risks to the success of the Company and its businesses are assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and to ensure that reviewed and improved as necessary.
There is an organisational all financial transactions are properly recorded.
Consolidated structure with clearly dened lines of responsibility and delegation data, reconciled to the underlying financial systems, is reviewed of authority and there are also established policies and procedures to ensure that the true position and results of the Group for monitoring each business.
While the operational control is are reected in the consolidated financial statements.
largely fide-centralised and responsibility is delegated, the Accounting policies and practices are widely disseminated businesses are subject to the overall internal control framework.
throughout the Companys subsidiaries and its afliates.
Control This, by its nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute processes are dynamic.
Continuous improvements are made to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Detailed adapt them to the changing risk prole of operations and policies and procedures have been established by the Board whenever a weakness in the internal control system is identied dealing with numerous issues including internal controls.
appropriate remedial action is taken.
Examples of internal control procedures are summarised The Company is committed to the highest ethical standards.
as follows: The Company has an established code of business conduct and a number of supporting policies that require that all of its businesses and employees act with integrity at all times and that there is strict compliance with applicable laws.
Employees have also been provided with a whistleblowing hotline known as MySafeWorkPlace allowing them to raise concerns anonymously.
All occurrences of whistleblowing are investigated and reported to the Audit Committee.
Charter International plc 42 Annual Report 2010 2010 review Directors and corporate governance Financial statements Other information 01 35 36 57 58 114 115 116 During the year under review a Compliance officer was 3 Relations with shareholders appointed with responsibility for monitoring compliance with the The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue Companys Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and Competition with institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
Policy and investigating any potential breaches of the policies.
Communications with private shareholders are conducted Work is currently in hand to ensure that the Company has through the Annual Report, Company announcements, the adequate procedures in place to comply with the Bribery Act AGM and the Companys website which, includes descriptions 2010, when it comes into force.
This includes a detailed review of the Companys business operations.
The Board receives of agents and intermediaries used by Howden and ESAB and regular updates on all meetings and communications with the existing controls in place.
major shareholders and major shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with the Non-Executive Directors from v Monitoring process time to time.
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal controls.
The significant components of these are: The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be addressed the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer of each through regular channels such as the Chairman, Chief operating company are required to review internal controls Executive or Finance Director.
and to return a self-certied internal control questionnaire conrming the effectiveness of internal control systems: The share capital structure can be found on page 55, in the Directors Report.
each operating company deploys a variety of risk identication and assessment processes and develops By order of the Board mitigating actions.
Major, high or medium risks are escalated Michael Hampson and progress on action plans is reviewed at least quarterly as Company Secretary and General Counsel part of management meetings.
The Board reviews every six 17 February 2011 months the major and high risks and monitors progress against action plans: as part of its audit visits to operating companies, the internal audit function evaluates the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the findings of the internal audit process: the Audit Committee has specic responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the process of assessing the internal controls on behalf of the Board: and the Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identied and assessed by operating units, operational management and the Board.
The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls described above for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 and up to the date of this Report in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance.
The review encompassed operational, financial and compliance controls as well as risk management.
The system used included the following elements: i as part of their ongoing reviews of the business, the Executive Directors and Key Management reviewed the effectiveness of strategic, operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
This involved considering reports on key risk areas concentrating on significant changes in the risk prole and in the light of such reviews making appropriate amendments to policies and procedures to control risks: and ii the Board considered reports from the Audit Committee and the Executive Directors on these areas during the year and, at the time of approving the Annual Report, considered a summary of the assessments of the effectiveness of the controls on the key risks identied.
Charter International plc 43 Annual Report 2010
