46 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance This statement sets out how the Company has applied the main the matters affecting the market in which they operate.
The Company and supporting principles of good governance set out in Section 1 meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in 2008 requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman.
by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code.
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Throughout the year ended 31 October 2010, the Company has in accordance with the recommendations of the Combined Code.
been in full compliance with the code provisions set out in Section 1 The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the of the 2008 Combined Code.
Chief Executive, and their respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for the Finance Director and four non-executive directors.
The Board ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all considers that the Chairman and three of the current non-executive decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive relations between the directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal executive and non-executive directors: ensuring that the development Sir Peter Norriss, are independent in character and judgment, and needs of directors are identified and the performance of the Board meet the criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code.
evaluated on a regular basis: ensuring effective communication The directors biographical details are set out on pages 32 and 33. with shareholders and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders are communicated to the Board.
The Chairmans The Board, which meets at least ten times a year, approves the other business commitments, which are detailed on page 32, were Groups long term goals and strategies and provides overall financial fully disclosed to the Board prior to his appointment and the Board is and organisational control.
The Board has a formal schedule of comfortable that he has sufficient time available to commit to his role.
matters specifically reserved to it for consideration and approval, including: approval of the Groups five year plan: approval of the The non-executive directors perform an essential role in safeguarding annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals and major capital shareholders interests.
They actively participate in the development expenditure: financing and treasury: pensions: ethical policies: health of strategic objectives and monitor the performance of executive and safety strategy: reviewing the Groups systems of financial management in achieving these objectives.
The non-executive directors control and risk management: approving appointments to the Board also review financial performance, and consider the integrity of the and approving policies relating to directors remuneration: and financial information produced by the Group and whether the financial maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders.
All directors controls and risk management systems are robust and defensible.
take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
They meet periodically with the management of the Groups operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the three The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive independent non-executive directors are the members of the standing Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration of executive and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational directors and senior management.
The Board considers that the and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across current balance of executive and non-executive influence which exists is the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: capital appropriate for the Company, taking into account its size and status.
expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
Further details of Mr Much served as the Senior Independent Director throughout the Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report the year.
During the year, both the previous and the current Chairman Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and met regularly with the non-executive directors without the timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to executives present.
ensure that directors have sufficient information to make expedient The non-executive directors have letters of appointment covering, and considered decisions in fulfilment of their fiduciary duties.
amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected time Where directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the commitment.
These letters of appointment provide for a three year running of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the discretion recorded in the Board minutes.
of either party upon three months written notice.
Mr Much and Each director has full access to the advice and services of the Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss have both now served two three year Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, terms, and their letters of appointment expired on 30 November 2010 is responsible for maintaining good information flows within the and 30 April 2010 respectively.
Their appointments were extended on a Board and its committees, assisting with induction and keeping the rolling basis pending the appointment of the new Chairman, to ensure directors informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities, a smooth transition.
They will be reviewed during the forthcoming year.
and advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, if the need three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the revised should arise.
UK Corporate Governance Code during the financial year ending 31 October 2011, all directors will voluntarily submit themselves for An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed information The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting on directors legal duties and responsibilities on appointment, and include a statement from the Chairman confirming that the updates the Board on a regular basis with regards to regulatory performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at changes affecting the directors and the Groups operations generally.
the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 47 Following his appointment on 1 October 2010, the Chairman The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial undertook an evaluation of the current performance of the statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Board and its committees, and an assessment of the future It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship requirements.
Feedback was sought from all Board members on between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, the perceived strengths and weaknesses of the current Board, and including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee recommendations were made for future improvements.
In addition, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal the Chairman and the non-executive directors considered the controls and financial risk management systems, and on an annual individual performance of the Chief Executive and the Finance basis, considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit Director as part of the annual remuneration review.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference Chairman and the Chief Executive reviewed the performance of the and its effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes non-executive directors.
No significant issues were identified.
required as the result of such review.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of in respect of legal action against its directors.
reference, discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing the Groups draft 2009 financial statements and 2010 Meetings attendance interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served the external auditors detailed reports thereon: during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures: 12 meetings 3 meetings 6 meetings 6 meetings considering and approving changes to the Groups accounting K C Scobie 10 11 - 4 5 - policy manual: P C F Hickson 3 3 - - - reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial D R Evans 11 12 - - - statements of certain matters such as impairments of fixed asset The Rt Hon values and the adoption of new accounting standards: Lord Freeman 12 12 3 3 - 6 6 reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2010 interim review I F R Much 12 12 3 3 6 6 6 6 and the 2010 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks on the Air Marshal Sir accounts, confirmation of auditor independence and the proposed Peter Norriss 11 12 3 3 6 6 5 6 audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: D J Price 12 12 - 4 5 - receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the Groups risk register: P A Rayner 12 12 - - - reviewing the Groups commission policy and arrangements The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown with agents: in brackets.
Board committees reviewing changes to the corporate structure of the Group and the associated tax implications: The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on monitoring the Groups key financial ratios and credit ratings: the Companys website and are available on request from the overseeing the application of the Groups whistleblowing policy Company Secretary.
and procedures for employees: Audit Committee reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource all served as members of the Audit Committee during the year.
and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is Chairman internal audit activities: and of the Committee: his full biographical details are set out on page 33. implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit The Committee met three times during the year and operates within services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance formal written terms of reference.
As referred to above, the terms and best practice.
of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the invitation of the Chairman The Groups internal audit programme incorporates an annual of the Committee, by the external auditors, the Chairman of the rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and Board, the Finance Director and representatives from the Group non-financial controls and procedures.
Newly acquired businesses finance and internal audit function.
The Committee meets with the are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function auditors on a regular basis without the executive directors present.
The Committee approves the annual The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee and internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the internal minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board members.
The Groups internal audit function in the USA was strengthened during the year.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no requires at the Companys expense.
contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 48 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance continued To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, Remuneration Committee the Committee reviewed: The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Mr Hickson was appointed as a member of the Committee on independence and objectivity: 1 October 2010.
Mr Much is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any met six times during the year.
Further details on the Committee and the variations from the plan: Companys policy on directors remuneration and long term incentive the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their schemes are included within the Directors Remuneration Report.
handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and Executive Committee the content of the external auditors reporting and internal control.
The Chief Executive, Dr Price, chairs the Executive Committee, which Deloitte LLP have been the Companys auditors for many years.
The other members are the Finance Director, the Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the auditors currently works well, and having reviewed their independence and Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing Directors.
The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive day-to-day effectiveness, the Committee has not considered it necessary to date to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the audit work.
Accordingly, running of the Group, submission to the Board of strategic plans and the Committee has recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP budgets for the Groups operations, and monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Relations with shareholders The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure shareholders through regular briefing meetings and formal that this does not impair their independence and objectivity.
presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
The Committee has adopted a policy which states that the external Meetings are usually attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and auditors should not be appointed to provide services in relation the Finance Director.
However, the non-executive directors are offered to corporate finance matters, unless the Committee agrees that the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend meetings their appointment would be in the best interests of the Companys if so requested by major shareholders.
No such requests were received shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any during the year.
Communication with private investors is achieved largely direct conflict with their role as external auditors.
The Committee, through the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
in conjunction with the Finance Director, ensures that the Group The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial maintains a sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
and business information on the Group.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial The directors are provided with reports and other written briefings statements on page 64. from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, and are regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to Nomination Committee significant shareholdings.
Mr Scobie, Mr Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss all served on the It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and make Nomination Committee during the year.
On his retirement, Mr Scobie themselves available to take questions from shareholders or address was succeeded as Chairman of the Committee by Mr Hickson.
In any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
At other times of the accordance with the Committees terms of reference, Mr Scobie was year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys head office.
not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee was dealing with the appointment of his successor, and the same restriction will All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report apply to Mr Hickson.
As referred to above, the Committees terms of and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at reference are available on the Companys website.
The number of proxy votes received for and against each resolution, together with the number of abstentions, With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors are indicated after votes have been dealt with on a show of hands, to the Board, the Committee considers the specific knowledge and and are posted on the Companys website following the meeting.
expertise which would be of benefit to the Groups current operations The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders and future strategy, and provides a brief to external search agents at least twenty working days before the meeting.
The search agents put forward a short list of candidates for the Committee to interview before making its Financial reporting recommendations to the Board.
The Board interviews preferred The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the candidates prior to making any formal offers of appointment.
financial statements and accounting records maintained by the During the year, an external search consultancy was retained to Company is set out on page 36. recruit a successor for Mr Scobie on his retirement.
A detailed brief for the new appointment, including an assessment of the Internal control and risk management The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups time commitment expected, was prepared in consultation with all of the Board members.
Dr Price was temporarily appointed to systems of internal control, including financial, operational and the Nomination Committee, which was chaired by Mr Much for compliance controls, and risk management systems.
this purpose, to assist specifically with the recruitment of the new The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems Chairman.
After an extensive search, Mr Hickson was successfully of internal control and attaches considerable importance to these appointed as a non-executive director on 1 July 2010 and as systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs Chairman on 1 October 2010. and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Groups assets.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 49 In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of Groups systems of internal control and risk management which the Combined Code, the Board has taken into consideration the were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2010, and following key features of the Groups risk management systems and it confirms that systems of internal control and risk management control procedures which operated during the year: compliant with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place throughout the year and have remained in place up to the The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement date of approval of these financial statements.
Notwithstanding of the Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control planning process.
Out of this process, each business establishes and risk management further into the operations of the Group and a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval to deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention by the Board.
The performance of each business against of management and the Board.
budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic Procedures to deal with directors business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by conflicts of interest the Board on an ongoing basis.
All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are attended the 2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or by the respective Divisional Managing Directors.
In addition, can have a direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend operational may conflict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys and strategic review meetings with each of the businesses on a Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors quarterly basis.
In the case of the US businesses, formal Board conflicts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The Company meetings are held quarterly, and these are attended by main has procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may Board directors and external non-executive directors appointed have any such conflicts, which require the Board to: in the US.
The US non-executive directors are available to provide consider each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: guidance and monitor governance in the US businesses throughout the year.
External non-executive directors are also appointed to the consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of their Boards of the Groups Italian and Australian subsidiaries.
duties under the 2006 Act: Each business is required to comply with the Groups keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by accounting policy manual, which sets out formal procedures for directors and the scope of any approvals given: and incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual regularly review conflict authorisation.
Compliance with the accounting policy manual is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the Going concern Audit Committee on their findings.
The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and concern.
They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the disposals, and financing arrangements for the Group.
Treasury management, IT strategy, insurance and significant legal matters Finance Director, such as: are dealt with centrally from the Group head office, and the Board the strong order book of 803.3 million as at the year end: receives regular reports on each of these items.
Reviews of the the Groups underlying operating cash flow of 126.1 million Groups pensions, insurance and risk management arrangements during the year: are carried out by external advisors on a regular basis.
the strong balance sheet at the year end, with net assets of The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and 323.2 million: and Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the activities of each business in relation to health and safety and the Groups available banking facilities, which amount to environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in 230 million with maturities through to April 2015 see view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive Note 36 of the financial statements.
is the Board member nominated with specific responsibility for The Groups banking covenants were all met with a comfortable health and safety.
The Chief Executive meets formally with health margin during the year, and the expectation is that this will continue.
and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is The Group has committed to adherence with the European well-placed to manage its risks.
Details of how the Group manages its Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry liquidity risk can be found in Note 24 of the financial statements.
Standards on Anti-Corruption, and has updated its business The long term nature of the Groups business, taken together policies and procedures to ensure compliance.
with the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a confidence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has Company Secretary, the Business Development Director, the Group adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Director of Safety, and the three Divisional Managing Directors serve foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern on the Committee.
The Committee reviews the key risks associated basis in preparing the financial statements.
with the achievement of the annual budget and the five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures implemented.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 18 January 2011.
It also considers the top five health and safety risks which have Signed on behalf of the Board been identified at each site and agrees the action plan to address S L Ellard these.
The Risk Management Committee reports biannually to the Company Secretary Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being taken to mitigate these.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
