42 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, except for those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which are contained in the Directors report Introduction by Chairman of the Audit Committee 2010 has been another extremely Fees paid to auditors for non-audit challenging year for Capital Shopping services were higher in 2010 than usual Centres, with two major transactions due to the additional work, including successfully completed the demerger of Accountants Reports, required on Capital & Counties Properties PLC in May thedemerger and the acquisition of 2010 and the acquisition of The Trafford TheTrafford Centre.
Excluding these Centre which completed in January 2011. distinct projects, the latter of which has continuedinto the 2011 accounting I am pleased to report that the Group period, the ratio of audit to non-audit complied in full with the Combined Code feeswas not unreasonable.
In May 2010 the new UK Corporate Governance Code was Mr Whittaker was appointed as a issued, effective for CSC from 1 January Non-Executive Director and Deputy 2011.
The Group has complied with Chairman on 28January 2011.
As he is virtually all of the provisions of the new amajor shareholder he is not regarded Code.
In particular, the Board has under the Code as being fully decided that all Directors will stand for independent.
This means that we now re-election at the 2011 Annual General have 6 non-independent Directors and Meeting, as required by the new Code 5independent Directors.
7.1. advised by theNomination & Review Committee, is considering how best Also, we asked an external provider to torestore the balanceto50:50 as carry out our Board Performance required underthe new Code.
Evaluation exercise at the end of 2010.
There are a number of insights and useful recommendations which the Board will implement over the next twelve months.
Ro Rob b Ro Row wlley ey Therecommendations are of a relatively Chairman, Audit Committee minor nature and could be regarded as and Senior Independent Director netuning rather than anything radical butshould invigorate Boardroom practice.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 43 areset out in the CR review on pages 30 to 35, which we Statement of compliance strongly recommend shareholders to read, and on the The Board believes that, as demonstrated by the information set Companys website.
The Company has been included in out in this section together with the statements and procedures theFTSE4Good listing, the JSE SRI index, the Dow Jones referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 51 to Sustainability Index and other important indices.
59, the Company has applied the main principles and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Engagement with shareholders and the the Code throughout the accounting period under review.
investment community The Company is required to comply from 1 January 2011 with The Company seeks to engage with shareholders through the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in May 2010 by investor meetings and announcements as well as at the theFinancial Reporting Council which replaced the previous Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Company has a Combined Code.
As explained in the Chairmans introduction, comprehensive website on which up-to-date information is the Group has complied with virtually all of the provisions of the available to the public.
However, new Code provision C. 1.2. states: The directors should include in the annual report an explanation of The Company has a strong investor relations programme.
the basis on which the Company generates or preserves value TheChief Executive and Finance Director, and on occasions over the longer term the business model and the strategy for theChairman, meet major shareholders and analysts each year delivering the objectives of the Company.
Information on the a to discuss the results of the Group, b to learn of any concerns Companys business model is included in the Business review that may have arisen and c within the appropriate constraints on pages 12 to 19 and it is intended that a more detailed to respond to any queries they may have.
Visits are arranged for business model will be provided in the 2011 Annual Report.
investors to tour the Companys property portfolio.
The Senior Independent Director and all Non-Executive Directors The framework of corporate governance are invited to attend investor presentations following the release of the annual results.
A number of the Non-Executive Directors The Boards overarching objective is to ensure that the Group attended the annual results presentation in February 2010. delivers long-term sustainable growth in returns for its shareholders.
Signi cant additional meetings were held with large shareholders during 2010 speci cally to keep them informed of The Group recognises that corporate governance is not an end events relating to the acquisition of The Trafford Centre and the in itself but an important means to an end.
The Code contains approach from the Simon Property Group.
no fide nition of corporate governance.
The first supporting principle it contains, at principle A.
1, reads as follows: The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the private and institutional shareholders and the entire Board is Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls available before and after the meeting.
The Chairman of each of which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board the Audit and Remuneration Committees is also available at the should set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
necessary financial and human resources are in place for theCompany to meet its objectives and review management The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Investor Relations performance.
The Board should set the Companys values and Manager maintain le notes of all meetings with investors and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders provide a full brie ng to the Board.
Investor relations, and andothers are understood and met.
reports from the Companys brokers on meetings with investors, are a regular agenda item at Board meetings.
The Board believes that the internal processes adopted meet the highest standards of accountability and probity.
The Board The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for thegood conduct of the Companys affairs and the information The Board is responsible not only to all shareholders but to and statements set out below describe how the main principles itsother stakeholders for the effective control and proper contained in the Code are applied by the Company.
The management of the Group.
A description of the Companys Companys internal procedures are regularly reviewed and activities over the last year is contained in the Chairmans updated by the Board and the various relevant Board Committees.
statement on pages 6 to 8, the Business review on pages 12to19, the Financial review on pages 22 to 27 and the CR The terms of reference which are the foundation of those review on pages 30 to 35. procedures specify responsibilities and levels of responsibility.
They cover all aspects of the Companys activities including Certain matters have been reserved for decision by the whole those relating to financial, operational and compliance controls Board and a schedule setting out a list of these is regularly and risk management.
In other cases the Board has delegated its authority under clearly fide ned conditions to technical Committees of the The Company has also demonstrated a strong commitment Board.
It has been the Boards custom over many years to tohigh standards of corporate responsibility, details of which 44 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Continued ensure that major decisions are taken after a reiterative process The Chairmans term of appointment which involves examination and review at several levels.
In part, The Chairman was appointed in 2008.
His current term is due this examination and review process is dealt with by the Board for renewal prior to the 2011 Annual General Meeting, and is Committees mentioned below.
expected to be extended by the Board by a further period to The Board discusses and makes decisions relating to, but not beagreed.
limited to: strategy: executive management performance, The separate roles of the Chairman, Mr Burgess, and of the retention, remuneration and succession: financial measures ChiefExecutive, Mr Fischel, are recognised and have been andperformance: acquisitions and disposals, other capital fide ned by the Board.
expenditure and controls: risk management: corporate reputation, including shareholder communication: and The principal business commitment of Mr Burgess, the theBoards own effectiveness.
It also receives reports on Chairman, is his Chairmanship of Capital Shopping Centres theproceedings of its Committees and considers their Group PLC.
Each Board Committees established authority limits are reviewed on an annual basis by the Directors contracts AuditCommittee and, subsequently, by the full Board.
The Executive Directors have service contracts which each have The Chairmans role is to provide a centrepoint of leadership, a notice period of 12 months.
toensure that the Boards discussions go into any matter put before it in adequate depth and in an appropriately focused way, Non-Executive Directors are generally appointed for three-year that the opinions of all the Directors are taken into account and periods and their continuing service thereafter is subject to accorded proper weight, and that all the Boards decisions are review by the Board.
supported by adequate and timely information.
The terms of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Matters relating to corporate governance are kept under regular Directors are available on written request from the Company review by the Audit Committee as well as by the full Board.
Matters relating to corporate responsibility are also kept under regular review by the CR Committee as well as by the Board.
Re-election of Directors All items which fall outside the normal course of business are In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate carefully recorded and reviewed and monitored by the Chief Governance Code, it is proposed that allDirectors will submit Executive, the Company Secretary and General Corporate themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, Counsel and, in accordance with the amounts involved, other than Mr Whittaker and MrRobertswho stand to be referredto the relevant Board Committee or to the Board itself.
elected for the first time.
TheCompanys position has always been that, in the event that a Director has a concern which cannot be resolved about the Board meetings running of the Company or a proposed action, such concern is recorded in the minutes.
The Board considers that it has clear There were six scheduled Board meetings in the year under and robust procedures for monitoring the approval of all review to consider all aspects of the Companys affairs and transactions within the Group, no matter what their size, through information requested from management.
formal Board Committees and formally delegated authority limits, and the signing of all documents.
There were six unscheduled Board meetings in the year.
The Directors have always had high levels of attendance Composition of the Board atBoard and Committee meetings.
At the year end, the Board consisted of the Chairman, Meeting papers are distributed in a timely manner giving MrBurgess, three Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors suf cient time to consider matters for discussion.
During the year Mr Hawksworth Executive and The attendance of Directors at all Board and Committee MrG.
J. Gordon Non-Executive resigned as Directors on meetings held in 2010 is set out in the table on page 45.
7May2010: Mr Durant Executive resigned on 17 May 2010: and Mr Rapp Non-Executive retired on 2 June 2010.
M. Gordon Non-Executive was appointed a Director Boardmeetings on7May 2010: Mr Abel Non-Executive was appointed on 2June2010: and Mr Roberts Executive was appointed Directors are kept fully informed of progress on matters on3June 2010. betweenformal meetings by way of ad hoc meetings and othercommunications on a regular basis.
There are a number of important Committee meetings between Board meetings Senior Independent Director and these are normally fully attended.
Mr Rowley was appointed as Senior Independent Director inSeptember 2008.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 45 The Chairman and Executive Directors regularly contact the Other Non-Executive Directors call at the of ces of the Non-Executive Directors to discuss speci c matters, typically of Company from time to time to discuss the progress of the a strategic nature.
There are regular informal meetings with the business generally and to provide input on speci c issues Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman met the Non-Executive e. g. property matters.
Directors during 2010 without the Executive Directors being present.
Directors con icts of interest The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Rowley, holds regular The Board has adopted a formal procedure for the identi cation meetings with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, to monitor of con icts under which Directors must notify the Chairman of and progress matters between scheduled Audit Committee any potential con icts.
The Chairman then decides whether a meetings.
Mr Rowley also meets the Chairman and Chief con ict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board Executive between Board meetings.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Henderson, No areas of con ict were identi ed or authorised under this contacts the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary to procedure in 2010. progress remuneration matters between scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings.
Attendance of members of the Board Committees during 2010: Board non-scheduled Nomination Board convened at Audit Remuneration and Review CR Board scheduled short notice Committee Committee Committee Committee 6 meetings 6 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 3 meetings D. P. H. Burgess 6 6 1 3 D. A. Fischel 6 6 3 E. M. G. Roberts appointed 3 June 2010 3 5 K. E. Chaldecott 6 6 3 J. G. Abel appointed 2 June 2010 3 4 R. M. Gordon appointed 7 May 2010 4 4 I. J. Henderson 6 6 3 1 3 A. J. M. Huntley 5 5 R. O. Rowley 4 5 4 3 1 N. Sachdev 5 6 4 3 A. D. Strang 6 5 4 Mr Whittaker has appointed Mr S. Underwood as his alternate.
Mr R. M. Gordon has appointed Mr G. R. Fine as his alternate.
TheBoard has generally invited the alternate Directors to attend, but not vote at, Board meetings.
46 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Continued the Groups policy on whistleblowing Independence of Non-Executive Directors the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk and At the start of the year, excluding the Chairman, the Board comprised six independent Non-Executive Directors and five the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including non-independent Directors.
At the end of the year, excluding the its independence Chairman, there were five independent Non-Executive Directors The Audit Committee makes recommendations on the and five non-independent Directors.
appointment, reappointment or removal of the Companys Accordingly throughout the year, at least half the Board, external auditors.
excluding the Chairman, comprised Non-Executive Directors The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed determined by the Board to be independent.
The table on page annually.
49 shows the balance on the Board between independent andnon-independent Directors.
The Audit Committee met four times in the year.
The Directors considered by the Board to be independent During the year the Audit Committee: areMr Henderson, Mr Rowley, Mr Sachdev, Mr Huntley and reviewed the annual report and associated preliminary MrStrang.
The non-independent Directors are Mr Fischel, year-end results announcement, focusing on key areas MrRoberts, Mrs Chaldecott, Mr Abel and Mr Gordon.
ofjudgement and critical accounting policies Following the appointment of Mr Whittaker on 28January2011, reviewed the interim results announcement there are now six non-independent Directors.
In order to restore the 50:50 balance required under the UK Corporate reviewed the Groups whistleblowing policy Governance Code, the Board would have to appoint an received detailed presentations from certain Senior additional independent Non-Executive Director but is reluctant Executives on the management of key risk and control issues to do that immediately given the overall size of the Board, which in their respective business areas is considered to be suf cient in number at present.
The Board willkeep this matter under review over the next twelve months.
reviewed the Groups annual risk assessment report reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function which The Board committees included an Internal Audit Effectiveness Review The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration and reviewed the external audit plan and reports of the external Nomination and Review Committees described below are auditor on its review of the interim announcement and its audit available on the Companys website.
of the annual financial statements met privately with the external auditor Audit Committee The Audit Committee assessed the effectiveness of the external The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2010 auditor,  LLP, and audit process on the were Mr Rowley Chairman of the Committee, Mr Sachdev and basis of meetings with finance, internal audit staff and other Mr Strang.
The Board considers Mr Rowley to have signi cant recent and In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the relevant financial experience in line with the Code.
All the current AuditCommittee considered a number of factors, including members are independent in the Boards opinion.
theexperience and tenure of the external auditor: the nature andlevel of services provided by the external auditor: and The Groups Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head con rmation from the external auditor that it has remained of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives of the external incompliance with relevant UK independence standards.
auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
Following this review process the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and recommended to the Board that the external auditor be reviewing: reappointed.
Acting on this recommendation the Board the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of recommended to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the signi cant financial reporting judgements and accounting in2010 that the external auditor be reappointed for a period of policies one year.
the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk  LLP has been the Companys audit management rm since 1998.
The Audit Committee has assessed and is satis ed with the auditors overall effectiveness.
Accordingly, the effectiveness of the internal audit function, including the ithas not considered it necessary to require the rm to tender work programme undertaken by the function for the audit work.
Any decision to open the external audit to tender is taken on recommendation of the Audit Committee.
This position will be reviewed on an on-going basis.
The external Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 47 auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for Whistleblowing policy the Group and subsidiary audits every 5 years.
In accordance The Audit Committee reviews the arrangements by which staff with this requirement the audit partner, Parwinder Purewal, was of the Company may, in con dence, raise concerns about due to rotate off the audit following the conclusion of the 31 possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other December 2009 audits as he had completed five years in the matters, and ensures that arrangements are in place for the role.
Given the signi cant changes in the Group arising from the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters demerger of Capco and the Board composition in the year, the and for appropriate follow-up action.
Whistleblowing incidents Audit Committee requested and  LLP are reported to each Audit Committee meeting.
agreed to an extension to the tenure of the audit partner in order to provide continuity and to support the maintenance of audit quality.
He has therefore continued to act as audit partner in Internal control respect of the 31 December 2010 audits.
A new audit partner It is the Boards responsibility to oversee the Groups system will be responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits for the ofinternal control and to keep its effectiveness under review.
Thereare no contractual The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only a reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance against Non-audit services material misstatement or loss.
The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, non-audit services does not impair the external auditors evaluating and managing the signi cant risks of the Group, independence or objectivity.
The term non-audit services financial and nonfinancial, and this has been in place doesnot include reference to any advice on tax.
The Audit throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 and up to Committee has delegated to the Executive Directors the thedate of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
authority to contract for non-audit services with the external Theprocess is regularly reviewed by the Board and it complies auditor subject to observing the following guidelines: with the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils internal control guidance for Directors.
a Executive Directors have the authority to commission the external auditors to undertake non-audit work where this is in Procedures are in place to ensure that if any weaknesses or relation to a speci c project with a cost not exceeding the lower failings are identi ed in the risk review process, appropriate of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated annual level of the remedial action is taken.
No signi cant weaknesses were auditors fees for the time being.
If the cost is likely to exceed the identi ed in 2010. limits mentioned above, the agreement of the Chairman of the The Group has an internal audit function.
The Head of Risk and Audit Committee is required before the work is commissioned Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and, in addition, b when the external auditor is considered for the provision of has regular meetings with the Chairman of that Committee.
non-audit work, the Executive Directors must consider whether The Board regularly receives detailed reports setting out key the proposed arrangements will maintain audit independence performance and business risks from the individual business c the external auditor must certify to the Company that it units, together with financial reports.
Monitoring of key indicators isacting independently and the Audit Committee or the allows the Board to consider control issues.
The Board receives commissioning Director as applicable must be satis ed regular reports through the Audit Committee from both the thatsuch is the case internal audit and compliance functions, which may include recommendations for improvement.
d in providing a non-audit service, the external auditor shouldnot: The internal audit function carries out an annual review of internal controls, which includes a Group-wide certi cation i audit their own work thateffective internal controls are in place and are being ii make management decisions operated effectively.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit carriesout a programme of veri cation of the certi cation iii create a mutuality of interest: or andreports the results to the Audit Committee.
iv nd they have placed themselves in the role of advocate forthe Company Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and non-audit services are included in note 8 on page 74 to the financial statements.
48 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Continued The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness, on the Going concern basis of criteria set out in the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils The Companys statement on going concern is set out in the internal control guidance for Directors, of systems of internal notes to the accounts on page 69. financial control for the year ended 31 December 2010 and has taken into account material developments which have taken place since the year end.
Internal financial reporting Board authority limits The Board has adopted formal Key internal financial reporting procedures, which exist within authority limits throughout the Group.
Projects or expenditure the wider system of control, are described under the following with a value in excess of 10 million are submitted for approval headings: to the Board.
There are also authority limits in place which relate Financial information The Group has a comprehensive to treasury management.
system for reporting financial results to the Board: each business unit prepares regular financial reports with Capital Projects Committee comparisons against budget.
The Board reviews these for theGroup as a whole and takes action when appropriate.
The Capital Projects Committee has been established in orderto review new projects and project expenditure in detail Financial reporting process The Group prepares detailed inaccordance with the Groups authority limits.
The members financial reporting on a quarterly basis.
This process is carried ofthe Capital Projects Committee are Mr Burgess Chairman, out using the policies and practices that apply to the control MrWhittaker, Mr Fischel, Mrs Chaldecott, Mr Roberts, environment in general, and is largely undertaken by the Groups MrButterworth and Mr Ellis, with other Directors and financial reporting team, which comprises appropriately quali ed executivesinvited from time to time.
Detailed planning is undertaken prior to the period end.
As part of this process, signi cant business risksand their potential impact on the financial reporting Executive Committee process and results are considered, including the effect of The Executive Committee meets every fortnight to consider anychanges in the business activities or accounting standards investment proposals and prospects, to review progress and matters arising from the underlying information systems.
onprojects and project expenditure in detail and to receive The preparation of the consolidated financial results involves updateson other business matters.
The members of the anumber of review stages, including by an internal technical Executive Committee are Mr Fischel Chairman, Mr Roberts, specialist, who has primary responsibility for ensuring that MrsChaldecott, Mr Butterworth, Ms Folger, Mr Ford and financial accounting developments are appropriately dealt with MrWeir.
in the Groups financial reporting process.
After various internal review stages, draft financial reports, with narrative commentary Nomination and Review Committee on new technical requirements or issues requiring a signi cant level of judgement are prepared for review and approval by the The members of the Nomination and Review Committee Audit Committee.
Thisreview stage involves the Audit duringthe year under review were Mr Burgess Chairman of Committee discussing the consolidated financial results and theCommittee, Mr Henderson and MrRowley.
There were signi cant judgements with senior management and where nochanges to the composition oftheNomination and Review appropriate theexternal auditor.
Major investments All major investments of the Group, There was one meeting of the Nomination and Review whether in the ordinary course of business or of an exceptional Committee in 2010. nature, are reviewed by at least one Committee of the Board and by the Board itself before being authorised and The terms of reference of the Nomination and Review implemented.
No changes to the terms were made in 2010.
Group treasury y The Group has a centralised treasury function which reports to the Board on a regular basis.
The reports The Committee is responsible for carrying out an annual provide details of counterparties, interest rate and foreign performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and exchange risks and derivatives.
Additional information on individual Directors, as well as making recommendations to thissubject is given in note 32 on pages 89 to 95. theBoard on appointments to the Board and to subsidiary Boards and on succession planning.
Operating unit financial controls Key controls over major financial risks include reviews against performance indicators The appointments of Mr Abel and Mr Gordon as Non-Executive and exception reporting.
The operating units make regular Directors following the demerger were recommended to the assessments of their exposure to major financial risks and the Board by the Nomination and Review Committee.
No external extent to which these risks are controlled.
These assessments search consultancy nor open advertising was used.
The are considered and reviewed by the Board and by regular Committee, and the Board, were conscious of the need to internal audit visits.
strengthen the skills of the Non-Executive Directors with regard to direct experience of the shopping centre industry and Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 49 accordingly Mr Abel was considered to be an ideal candidate.
There is a comprehensive induction programme for new Mr Gordon was appointed in place of Graeme Gordon as the Directors and both the Chairman alone and the Committee Gordon Familys representative on the Board.
consider the need for existing Directors to update and refresh theirskills and knowledge as part of the annual performance In 2010 an independent review of Board effectiveness and a evaluation exercise.
The Committee also carried out a rigorous high level review of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination review of the terms of Mr Henderson and Mr Rowley, the and Review Committees was carried out for the first time by an Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than external consultant, Independent Audit Limited.
The results are sixyears, taking into account the need for progressive under review by theBoard, although there were no material refreshingof the board.
TheSenior Independent Director in conjunction with the otherDirectors carried out the annual evaluation of the The Nomination and Review Committee evaluates the skills Chairmans performance.
available on the Board and determines when appointments and retirements are appropriate.
The Committee met in 2011 to The Nomination and Review Committee also considers the consider the balance of the Board, particularly as following the expected time commitment of the Non-Executive Directors appointment of Mr Whittaker in January 2011 there are now six eachyear.
Non-Executive Directors are required to con rm in non-independent Directors and five independent Directors.
writing that they continue to have suf cient time to devote to Asstated above this is a matter which remains under review.
theCompanys affairs and in addition they are required to seekprior approval from the Chairman before taking on any The Nomination and Review Committee has determined that additional external commitments which may affect their time the current balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the available to devote to the Company.
Board and on the Board Committees is satisfactory.
The composition of the Board, excluding the Chairman, in terms of the balance of independent and non-independent Directors as at 31 December 2010, was as follows: Independent in opinion of Board Non-Independent in opinion of Board D. A. Fischel Executive Director K. E. Chaldecott Executive Director E. M. G. Roberts Executive Director J. G. Abel R. M. Gordon I. J. Henderson R. O. Rowley N. Sachdev A. J. M. Huntley A. D. Strang Total 5 5 Code provision A.
3.2. of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance states that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
50 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance Continued Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year under review were Mr Henderson Chairman of the Committee, Mr Rowley and Mr Sachdev.
There were no changes to the composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2010.
There were three meetings of the Remuneration Committee in2010.
The Committees primary responsibilities are to determine theremuneration packages and other terms and conditions of service applying to Executive Directors and Senior Executives ofthe Group and the provision of incentivisation and performance related bene ts to any Executive Director oremployee.
The Directors Remuneration Report which sets out details ofthe Committees responsibilities, the Groups remuneration policy and details of remuneration in 2010 is set out on pages51to 59.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Groups strong commitment to high standards of Corporate Responsibility is the responsibility of the Chairman and the Board and is managed through a CR Committee.
The members of the CR Committee during the year under review were MrBurgess Chairman of the Committee, Mr Fischel, MrsChaldecott, Mr Henderson, MrNicoll Director of CR andMr Dalton CR Executive.
There were three CR Committee meetings during 2010.
The CR review is set out on pages 30 to 35.
Ro Rob b Ro Row wlley ey Senior Independent Director, on behalf of the Board 23 February 2011
