Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Report of the Audit Committee Membership The Committee is chaired by Simon Neathercoat and was served throughout 2010 by Stuart Corbyn, Robert Farnes, Donald Newell and June fide Moller.
Stephen Young joined the Committee in August 2010 and will take over as Chairman on 1 April 2011.
All members are considered independent by the Company having no day-to-day involvement with the Company.
Both Simon Neathercoat and Stephen Young are qualified accountants and considered to have appropriate recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has access to further financial expertise at the Companys expense, if required.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee met four times during the year to discharge its responsibilities.
Meetings are attended by the Groups external Auditor, independent property valuers CBRE and members of the Groups senior management when invited.
Work of the Committee During the year, the Committee has carried out the following: reviewed the interim and annual financial statements and considered the appropriateness of the accounting policies used, assumptions and judgements adopted and estimates made: reviewed the Groups published interim management statements: held meetings with the Groups external valuers prior to the interim and final results: held meetings with the Groups external Auditor: reviewed the scope of the annual audit and the level of associated fees: considered the adequacy of the Auditors statement of independence: monitored the operation of the Groups policy regarding the use of the external Auditor for non-audit work which helps protect the Auditors independence and objectivity and introduced a limit of 25,000 above which the Committee would need to be consulted prior to any engagement: after due consideration of the conduct of the audit and the matters raised in the management letter, recommended the re-appointment of the Groups external Auditor: considered the need for an internal audit function: reviewed the Groups conflict of interest register: reviewed, commented upon and approved the preparation of the Groups risk register: reviewed an internal report regarding the control environment in the Groups small office in Scotland: and considered the implication for the Group of the Bribery Act.
S. J. Neathercoat Chairman of the Audit Committee 10 March 2011 93
