38 Corporate governanCe Corporate governance The Board, which has ultimate responsibility for facilitating the programme of directors THE COMBINED CODE for Hammersons overall management and induction and professional development The Board is committed to maintaining its business and financial strategy, operates and Board performance evaluation.
The high standards of corporate governance within the terms of its written authorities, appointment and removal of the Company and, except where otherwise stated, the which include a formal schedule of matters Secretary is a matter requiring approval Company has complied with section 1 of reserved for its approval, including: of the Board.
the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the year ended strategy: TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT 31 December 2010.
The Company also acquisition and divestment policy: All Directors are kept informed of changes now complies with the majority of the in relevant legislation and regulations and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance approval of major capital expenditure changing financial and commercial risks Code, which replaces the 2008 Combined projects: with the assistance of the Companys legal Code, notwithstanding it will not apply to the risk management: advisers and auditors where appropriate.
Company until the year ending 31 December Executive Directors are subject to the Companys 2011.
The Board also takes account of monitoring performance: performance development review process the corporate governance guidelines internal control: through which their performance against of institutional shareholders and their predetermined objectives is reviewed and representative bodies.
treasury and the raising of finance: their personal and professional development human resources: and needs considered.
The performance of BOARD OF DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors is appraised The Board currently consists of the Chairman, corporate governance.
The training and three Executive Directors and five Nonpersonal development requirements of Executive Directors.
The Board, which meets Specific responsibilities are delegated to Non-Executive Directors is reviewed as part routinely not less than ten times during the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination of this appraisal process and Non-Executive year and additionally as may be required, Committees and documented in their Directors are encouraged to attend seminars met on 11 occasions in 2010.
The procedures and and undertake external training at the Directors are encouraged to communicate accountability for these matters are set out Companys expense in areas they consider directly with Executive Directors between in the Companys operations and control to be appropriate for their own professional formal Board meetings and, in addition to manuals.
A schedule of routine matters to be development including, in particular, on these regular Board meetings, the Board addressed by the Board and its Committees issues relevant to the Board Committees to holds an annual strategy meeting at which it is agreed on an annual basis and information which they belong.
A record of such training considers the future direction of the Company is supplied to them in a manner that enables is maintained by the Company Secretary.
as part of the business planning process.
All them to fulfil their responsibilities.
This Directors are expected to attend all meetings includes the circulation of comprehensive BOARD EFFECTIVENESS of the Board, and of those Committees on briefing papers one week prior to board The effectiveness of the Board and its which they serve, and to devote sufficient and committee meetings.
Presentations on Committees is vital to the success of the time to the Companys affairs to enable them business and operational issues are made Company and they therefore monitor and to properly fulfil their duties as Directors.
The regularly to the Board by senior management evaluate their own performance and the following table shows Directors attendance and the annual programme of board meetings contribution made by individuals.
at Board and Committee meetings they were is tailored to enable some meetings to be eligible to attend: held at the Companys properties.
During 2010 An external evaluation of the Boards the Board visited the Companys shopping  and procedures, and Board Audit eration ation centres at Brent Cross, London, Union those of its Committees, was undertaken Square, Aberdeen and Silverburn, Glasgow.
John Nelson 11 11 8 8 6 6 in December 2010 by ICSA Board Evaluation.
David Atkins 11 11 In accordance with the UK Corporate Peter Cole 11 11 This evaluation concluded that the Board Governance Code, all directors, with the Terry Duddy 8 11 2 4 5 5 and its Committees were operating exception of David Edmonds, are submitting David Edmonds 11 11 7 8 effectively, but highlighted some potential themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual Jacques improvements in procedures.
In future, the General Meeting.
Espinasse 9 11 4 4 Nomination Committee will report directly to John Hirst 11 11 4 4 all Non-Executive Directors on all matters Biographical details of all directors are Simon Melliss 11 11 considered by the Committee.
There will be provided on page 6.
Tony Watson 11 11 4 4 8 8 6 6 a reduction in the number of routine board meetings held each year from 10 to nine and, RESOURCES When Directors are unable to attend meetings, as a consequence, there will be a review All Directors have access to independent their comments on briefing papers to be of the matters to be considered at board professional advice at the Companys considered at the meeting are provided in meetings to maximise the effective use of expense and to the advice and services advance to the Chairman.
These changes are being implemented of the Company Secretary who is responsible under the guidance of the Chairman and the to the Board for advice on corporate The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Company Secretary.
It is intended that the governance matters and for ensuring that Chief Executive, Executive Directors and next external board evaluation will be Board procedures are followed and that Non-Executive Directors are clearly defined undertaken in 2013 and that, in the intervening the Company and the Board operate within and documented.
years, evaluations will be undertaken applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
internally by the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is also responsible o ove ver rvi vie ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s an and d fi finan nanC Ciia al l r re ev viie ew w g go ov five er rnan nanC Ce e fi finan nanC Ciia al l st sta ate tem me ent nts s p pr rop ope er rt ty y p por ort tf foli olio o Hammerson plc ANNUAL REPORT 2010 39 The Chairman meets as necessary, but at RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS THE AUDIT COMMITTEE least twice each year, with the Non-Executive The Company has an active dialogue with The Audit Committee is responsible for Directors without Executive Directors its shareholders through a programme of ensuring that management has systems and present.
The Senior Independent Director investor meetings which include formal procedures in place to ensure the integrity chairs an annual meeting of Executive presentations of the full and half-year results.
The Committee and Non-Executive Directors without the All Non-Executive Directors are available to maintains an appropriate relationship with the Chairman in order to appraise his performance attend meetings if requested to do so by Groups external auditors and reviews the and to provide an opportunity to address any shareholders and may attend meetings effectiveness, objectivity and independence other matters which the Directors might wish between shareholders and management of the external auditors and considers both to raise.
The outcome of these discussions is if desired.
The Board receives reports of the scope of their work and the fees paid to conveyed to the Chairman by the Senior meetings with institutional shareholders them for audit and non-audit services.
together with regular market reports and Committee reviews the Companys internal brokers circulars.
This enables the Directors audit arrangements, internal financial controls NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to obtain the required understanding of the and the audit process.
The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive views of shareholders.
Shareholders are Directors, each of whom is independent from invited to ask questions at the Companys The Committee has access to employees management and has no material commercial Annual General Meeting and meet the and all documentation and information it or other connection with the Company, are Directors informally after the meeting.
able to exercise independent judgement.
number of proxy votes cast on resolutions is Their experience, gained from varied announced at the Annual General Meeting Committee membership commercial backgrounds, enables them to and published on the Companys website.
make a valuable contribution to the Company Members Date of appointment as part of which they assist the executive EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS John Hirst Chairman 19 August 2004 management and challenge assumptions.
Executive Directors are encouraged to take Terry Duddy 1 January 2010 The Chairman holds other positions which are non-executive positions in other companies, Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 set out on page 6.
The Board is satisfied that to broaden their experience.
The appointment Tony Watson 1 January 2010 these appointments do not adversely affect to such positions is subject to the approval his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
of the Board which considers, in particular, John Hirst, the Chairman of the Committee, is Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are the time commitment required.
a Chartered Accountant and a member of the also set out on page 6 and the Board is likewise Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He has satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Simon Melliss is a member of the committee been closely involved in financial issues as Directors is able to devote sufficient time to of management of Hermes Property chief executive of the Met Office since 2007 the Companys business.
Non-Executive Unit Trust, for which he received a fee and as chief executive of Premier Farnell plc Directors are advised on appointment of of 20,000 in 2010 and a non-executive between 1998 and 2005: prior to that he was the time required to fulfil the role and are director and chairman of the Audit Committee group treasurer of ICI plc.
The Board is asked to confirm they can make the required of Whitbread PLC, for which he received satisfied that he has the required recent commitment.
Tony Watson is the Senior a fee of 65,000 in 2010.
The fees paid are and relevant experience.
In this role he would retained in recognition of the personal John Hirst has been a member of the Audit deputise for the Chairman in his absence and commitment and expertise required for Committee for over six years, the Board is available to advise and counsel particularly such positions.
considers that, given his experience and Non-Executive, but also Executive, colleagues.
the need to provide continuity on the He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration STANDING COMMITTEES OF appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer, and Nomination Committees.
THE BOARD it is appropriate that he should continue to The Board has Audit, Remuneration and chair the Committee.
There is an induction programme in place Nomination Committees, each of which has which is based on the guidelines issued by written terms of reference which are modelled Meetings the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and closely on those recommended by the The Committee meets at least four times Administrators tailored to the specific Institute of Chartered Secretaries and each year with agendas organised around requirements of newly appointed NonAdministrators.
They deal clearly with the the Companys reporting cycle.
On their appointment, authorities and duties of each Committee it met on four occasions.
Non-Executive Directors meet with the and are formally reviewed annually.
Copies of Chairman and the Chief Executive and these terms of reference are available on the The Chairman of the Company, the Chief are provided with briefings on their Companys website.
Each of these Committees Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and responsibilities as Directors and on the is comprised of Independent Non-Executive other senior finance management together Companys business, finances, risks, Directors of the Company who are appointed with senior representatives of the external strategy, procedures and the markets by the Board on the recommendation of the auditors are invited to attend all meetings.
In in which the Company operates.
order to fulfil its duties as defined in its terms Executive Directors also meet with members of reference, the Audit Committee receives of senior management who provide further The Company Secretary is secretary to presentations and reviews reports from the information on the Companys operations, each Committee.
Groups senior management, consulting as including visits to the Companys properties, necessary with the external auditors.
and with representatives from the Companys The Chairman of each Committee reports the auditors and advisers.
outcome of meetings to the Board.
40 Corporate governanCe Corporate governance continued The Committee meets with Deloitte LLP, the recently as the finance director of a major REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Companys external auditors, and with BDO listed property company, has the necessary LLP, which undertakes the majority of the skills and experience, recommended his Members Date of appointment Companys internal audit reviews, in the absence appointment as Chief Financial Officer with Tony Watson Chairman 1 February 2006 of management at least once each year.
effect from the end of May 2011.
Terry Duddy 18 February 2011 David Edmonds 1 January 2010 Review of the year OTHER COMMITTEES John Nelson 21 July 2006 During the year, the Committee reviewed In addition to the principal committees the draft Annual Report and the full and referred to above, the Board has established The Remuneration Committee comprises half-year results announcements prior to committees to deal with share plan three independent Non-Executive Directors their approval by the Board.
administration, compliance with the and the Company Chairman.
Companies Act and the Listing, Prospectus, These reviews considered the application Disclosure and Transparency Rules and other The Committee met eight times during of the Companys accounting policies and relevant regulatory requirements and the 2010.
Full details of the responsibilities of the practices and any changes to them, major administrative arrangements required Remuneration Committee and a review of its judgemental areas, adjustments resulting for financing.
activities during the year are included in the from the audit and going concern assumptions.
report of the Remuneration Committee on The reviews also included consideration of EXTERNAL AUDITORS pages 46 to 51.
The Chief Executive other the Groups compliance with statutory tax The Companys external auditors are Deloitte than in respect of his own remuneration is obligations, compliance with accounting LLP.
The audit partner responsible for the invited to attend meetings of the Committee.
standards and with regulatory requirements, Companys audit matters is changed every the statement on internal control, property five years in accordance with the Ethical NOMINATION COMMITTEE valuations and clarity of disclosure.
Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
In forming their opinion on the Members Date of appointment The Committee is required to assist the Board independence and objectivity of the external John Nelson Chairman 7 April 2005 to fulfil its responsibilities relating to the auditors, the Audit Committee takes into Terry Duddy 18 February 2010 adequacy and effectiveness of the control account the safeguards operating within Tony Watson 3 May 2007 environment and the Groups compliance Deloitte LLP.
Under the Companys policy with the Combined Code.
To fulfil these governing the provision of non-audit services The Committee met six times in 2010.
The duties, the Committee reviewed: by the external auditors, they may not provide Committee undertakes an annual review of a service which places them in a position the external auditors management letters: succession planning and ensures that the where they may be required to audit their membership and composition of the Board, internal audit reports, including own work.
including the balance of Executive Directors recommendations arising from them and and Non-Executive Directors, continues the review of progress in implementing Specifically, they are precluded from providing to be appropriate.
As part of the review, previous recommendations: services relating to bookkeeping or other the Committee considers the independence services relating to accounting records or reports on the systems of internal controls of Non-Executive Directors and the balance financial statements of the Company, financial and the risk management framework: and of skills and knowledge required of both information system design and implementation, Executive Directors and Non-Executive the Companys approach to compliance appraisal or evaluation services, actuarial Directors.
In addition to identifying potential with legislation and regulations and services, any management functions, successors for executive board level to the prevention of fraud, including investment banking services, legal services positions, the review considers senior arrangements for staff to raise concerns unrelated to the audit, remuneration related functional positions within the Company.
Christophe Clamageran resigned as a The Audit Committee is responsible for During 2010, services provided by Deloitte director in November 2009.
The Committee, the development, implementation and LLP to the Company, in addition to acting advised by Russell Reynolds Associates, monitoring of the Groups policy on external as external auditors, included acting as reviewed internal and external candidates audit in which is set out the categories of reporting accountants for the capital for the position and, having concluded that non-audit services that the external auditors restructuring of subsidiaries, including Jean-Philippe Mouton was the most suitable are, and are not, allowed to provide to the intra-group distributions, and bond candidate for the position, recommended his Group.
Details are given below under the compliance work.
appointment as Managing Director of heading External Auditors.
To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the The Committee has recommended to the external auditors, the Committee reviewed: Simon Melliss will retire as Chief Financial Board that the external auditors should the scope of the audit as set out in the Officer on 30 June 2011.
external auditors engagement letter advised by Spencer Stuart, considered for the forthcoming year: successors for the position and, having concluded that Timon Drakesmith, with his background in banking and finance, most o ove ver rvi vie ew w b bu us siin ne es ss s an and d fi finan nanC Ciia al l r re ev viie ew w g go ov five er rnan nanC Ce e fi finan nanC Ciia al l st sta ate tem me ent nts s p pr rop ope er rt ty y p por ort tf foli olio o Hammerson plc ANNUAL REPORT 2010 41 the external auditors overall work plan Other key elements of the Groups system INTERNAL CONTROL for the forthcoming year: of internal control include: The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for the external auditors fee proposal: regular meetings of the Board and the reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is Audit Committee whose overall a report from the external auditors designed to safeguard assets against responsibilities are set out above: describing their arrangements to ensure unauthorised use or disposition, ensure the objectivity and to identify, report and a management structure that is designed maintenance of proper accounting records, manage any conflicts of interest: and to enable effective decision making with provide reliable financial information and clearly defined responsibilities and limits ensure compliance with relevant legislation the extent of non-audit services provided of authority.
Monthly meetings of the and regulations.
by the external auditors to ensure that Group Executive Committee and of the they are not placed in a position to audit management boards in the UK and France There is a regular review process throughout their own work.
are an important part of this structure: the year of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, Where non-audit services are provided, the the maintenance of operational control operational and compliance controls and risk fees are based on the work undertaken and manuals setting out a control framework management.
However, it must be recognised are not success related.
Consideration is for management to operate within and that any such system can only provide given to the nature of and remuneration containing guidance and procedures for reasonable and not absolute assurance received for other services provided by the Groups operations: and against material misstatement or loss.
Deloitte LLP to the Company and confirmation the measurement of the Groups financial This system is designed to manage the is sought from them that the fee payable for performance on a regular basis against achievement of business objectives.
the annual audit is adequate to enable them budgets and long-term financial plans.
to perform their obligations in accordance Management has established a risk with the scope of the audit.
The auditors The Company has a code of conduct which management framework and procedures remuneration in respect of the year ended explains how the Company expects employees necessary to enable the Directors to report on 31 December 2010, comprised 608,000 to fulfil their responsibilities by acting in the internal controls in compliance with the Code.
for year-end audit and half-year review work best interests of the Company and in line with The risk management procedures involve 2009: 626,000 and 49,000 for other work its corporate and financial objectives.
This the analysis, evaluation and management of 2009: 64,000.
The Audit Committee has includes compliance with laws and regulations, the key risks to the Group and include plans reviewed the briefing paper on effective acting fairly in dealing with customers and for the continuity of the Companys business communication between audit committees suppliers, maintaining integrity in financial in the event of unforeseen interruption.
and external auditors issued by the Auditing reporting, treating employees fairly, providing The Board, which reviews the framework Practices Board.
Having considered the training and development and operating and procedures regularly, has allocated recommendations of the briefing paper in within a control framework which includes responsibility for the management of each respect of the external auditors, the Audit environmental and health and safety policies.
key risk to Executive Directors and senior Committee has concluded that the relationship executives within the Group who report on with Deloitte LLP meets the recommendations.
The Company has whistleblowing procedures these risks to the Board.
under which staff may report any suspicion of TRUSTEES OF THE PENSION SCHEME fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
The Company conducts internal audit activities The Companys defined benefit pension No reports of any such matters have been through a programme of reviews.
These scheme was closed to new entrants on received.
The Company subscribes to the reviews, which are principally undertaken by 31December 2002 following which a Group independent charity, Public Concern at Work, BDO LLP, but also on occasion by Company Personal Pension Plan was established for so that staff may have free access to its helpline.
employees, and the implementation of new employees.
recommendations arising from them, are The system of internal control and the overseen and co-ordinated by an Internal The defined benefit pension scheme, The effectiveness thereof have been reviewed Controls and Risk Management Committee.
Hammerson Group Management Limited by the Board for the year under review This Committee comprises executives from Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, is and during the period up to the date of this the finance and operational parts of the administered by two corporate trustees, one report and the process accords with the business, is chaired by the Chief Financial of which is an independent trustee.
Officer, and is intended to ensure that internal is a subsidiary of the Company which has four control is integrated into Hammersons daily directors.
The Chairman of this subsidiary By Order of the Board operations.
The Audit Committee considers is David Edmonds, one of the Companys these arrangements annually and is satisfied Non-Executive Directors.
David Edmonds will Stuart Haydon that they provide an appropriate overview of continue as the Chairman of this subsidiary Secretary the Companys internal control procedures.
and chair meetings of the Trustees following 21 February 2011 his retirement in April 2011 as a director of the Company.
Two of the remaining directors are employees, but not directors, of the Company and the other is a former employee.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed independently of the Company.
