Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Corporate governance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 41 to 48, describes how the Number held 10 4 4 4 Company has both applied the principles contained in the revised Number attended Combined Code on Corporate Governance amended in June 2008 the A J Stevens 10 Code and complied with the provisions contained in section 1 of the W G Tucker 10 Code.
The Code is available at frc.
1 D J Turner 3 1 2 2 In May 2010, the FRC published a new code, the UK Corporate J Devaney 8 4 2 Governance Code the Governance Code which will replace the Code M W Hagee 9 3 3 3 for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The FRC has stated P Hooley 10 4 4 4 that changes have been made to help company boards to become more M Beresford 10 4 4 4 effective and more accountable to shareholders.
Where possible, the J S Patterson 10 4 4 4 Company has already adopted principles from the Governance Code.
M H Ronald 10 4 4 3 Statement of compliance with the provisions of the M Wareing 1 1 1 Combined Code 1 D J Turner retired on 6 May 2010.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the 3 M Wareing elected on 1 December 2010.
Company confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 and at the date of this Annual Report, it was compliant with the Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms of three years provisions of the Code.
which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals performance continues to be effective.
All Non-executives have Share capital confirmed they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of Details of the share capital of the Company are given in the Directors them and copies of their appointment letters are available on request to report on page 34. the Company Secretary and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
Under the Articles, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders Board composition at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board and are subject The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman John Devaney, to re-appointment if they have held office for three years or more a Chief Executive Officer Andy Stevens, a Chief Financial Officer since their previous appointment by shareholders and, in the case of Warren Tucker and six other Non-executive Directors of whom Non-executive Directors, if they have held office for nine years or more Marcus Beresford is the Senior Independent Director.
All Non-executive since first being appointed by shareholders.
However, in accordance Directors are considered to be independent and the Chairman was with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which recommends that considered to be independent on appointment.
all directors of FTSE 350 companies seek re-election by shareholders on an annual basis, all directors currently in office will retire and seek Biographies of the Directors, giving details of their experience and other re-election at the AGM.
In addition, Michael Wareing, who was significant commitments, are set out on pages 32 to 33 and, in relation appointed by the Board on 1 December 2010, is seeking election by to all Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM, in the shareholders at the 2011 AGM for the first time.
The Board has set out accompanying shareholder circular.
The wide ranging experience and in the circular a resolution to re-elect Mr Wareing as a Non-executive backgrounds of the Non-executive Directors enable them to debate Director and explains why it believes he should be re-elected.
The and constructively challenge management in relation to both Chairman confirms to shareholders when proposing re-election or the development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
re-appointment that following formal performance evaluation, the The attendance of Directors at Board and principal Board committee individuals performance continues to be effective and that the meetings as members of such committees during the year is set out individual continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
The Chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing Board meetings and leading the Board.
The Chief Executive Officers responsibilities include operational performance, Corporate social responsibility and the development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
He focuses also on long term growth and development of the Group, its people and customer relationships.
The Boards policy is that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer should be performed by different people.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairmans role and that of the Chief Executive Officer is documented and clearly understood.
The Senior Independent Directors responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of communication between the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
He also provides another point of contact www.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Corporate governance continued Board committees for shareholders if they have concerns which communication through The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Information relating to the nomination and audit committees appears Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or where these contacts below and the activities of the remuneration committee are described areinappropriate.
in the Directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 48.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board committees.
Committee The Directors have the benefit of a Directors and officers liability chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third party committees at the following Board meeting.
indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at Other Board committees include the executive directors committee.
the Companys expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
The Executive Directors are members of this committee under the chairmanship of the Chief Executive Officer.
The purpose is to assist the The Board and its proceedings Chief Executive Officer in the performance of his duties and its terms of Board meetings, scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable, reference include establishing and implementing internal policies, systems take place seven times a year and otherwise as required.
There is contact and controls to ensure that potential inside information is communicated between meetings to progress the Groups business as required.
Meetings to it, considered, verified and released to the market where required, were held at the head office in Wimborne, at the Companys London the discharge of obligations arising under the Companys share plans, office and at an operational location in the US.
In addition, the Senior the determination of the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors Independent Director held a meeting with the Non-executives in the and the approval of banking facilities.
This committee met on 13 absence of the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance and his occasions during the year and, in addition, asrequired to respond to performance was evaluated.
In addition, the Chairman has held meetings business needs and market conditions.
with the Non-executives in the absence of the Executive Directors.
All Board committees are provided with sufficient resources to The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of undertake their duties.
strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that the Nomination committee necessary resources are in place, monitors management performance, John Devaney is the Chairman of this committee.
The other members and supervises the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework are Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford, John Patterson, Mark Ronald, of prudent and effective internal controls.
During the year, the Board and Mike Hagee and Michael Wareing.
John Devaney joined the committee senior management participated in a two day meeting devoted to the in February 2010 and Michael Wareing joined in December 2010. consideration and development of the Groups strategy.
All current members of the committee are independent.
Details of their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 32 to 33.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific During the year the committee met on four occasions.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during either to committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which the year, are available on the Companys website or on application the Board alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the its five year plan, its consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, structure, size and composition of the Board and to consider succession acquisitions and disposals, and all appointments to and removals from planning for Directors and other senior executives.
The committee dealt with the Board.
Authority is delegated to management on a structured basis these matters during the year and, in addition, made recommendations in accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Framework ensuring regarding the re-election and re-appointment of certain Directors at the that proper management oversight exists at the appropriate level.
Matters 2010 AGM, and was engaged in searching, with the assistance of external delegated in this way include, within defined parameters, the approval search consultants, for Michael Wareing.
The committee is cognisant of of bids and contracts, capital expenditures and financing arrangements.
the need for diversity when considering the composition of the Board.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to the conduct of its business, The nomination committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge including the timely provision of information, and the Company Secretary and experience of the Board.
is responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board on corporate governance matters.
The Company Secretary The significant commitments of the Chairman and other Non-executive is appointed, and can only be removed, by theBoard.
Directors were disclosed to the Board before appointment and any changes are reported to the Board as they arise.
Changes during the year If a Director were to have a concern which cannot be resolved this are noted in the personal biographies on pages 32 and 33. would be recorded in the board minutes.
On resignation, Non-executive Directors are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for Directors professional development circulation to the Board if they have concerns.
No such statements were On appointment, Directors undertake a structured induction programme made during 2010. in the course of which they receive information about the operations and activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters All potential situational and transactional conflicts of interest are reserved for its decision, the Companys corporate governance practices disclosed, noted and authorised.
Procedures are in place and operating and procedures and their duties, responsibilities and obligations as effectively to keep such disclosures up to date.
Directors of a listed public limited company.
This is supplemented by 38 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information stated in accordance with Group policies.
The review and monitoring visits to key locations and meetings with, and presentations by, of the effectiveness of the internal controls including, but not limited to, seniorexecutives.
financial controls and the Groups risk management systems is delegated to the audit committee.
Training for Directors is available as required and is provided mainly by means of external courses or in-house presentations.
In addition, Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control.
Directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment is updated Divisional Presidents are required to ensure that appropriate processes, through the provision of information by the Groups advisors and by including the maintenance of divisional risk registers, exist to identify means of regular briefings from the Company Secretary.
As part of the and manage risks and to regularly carry out formal risk assessments.
Executive Director development programme and with the agreement The executive risk committee established in 2009 undertakes a top level of the Board, Warren Tucker was appointed Non-executive Director of review of significant risks and the Chief Executive Officer reports Reckitt Benckiser Group plc on 24 February 2010. regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
Performance evaluation The latest principal risks are highlighted on pages 26 to 27.
The Board conducts an evaluation of its activities on an annual basis.
During 2010, the Board undertook an internal evaluation.
The evaluation The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, the included the review of actions taken in response to the 2009 external aim of which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of evaluation and discussions with each member of the Board as to its the Groups business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding effectiveness with the Chairman.
The Board considered the output and of shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The audit has approved an action plan to address issues arising.
committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather Succession planning than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can Succession planning takes place at Board and senior management level only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material on a regular basis to ensure that the Group is managed by executives misstatement or loss.
with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge.
The Board has a role to play in overseeing the development of management resources The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, in the Group.
Specifically, the Board wants to see depth and quality in evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
management and robust processes are in place to help the Board in This process, which has been in place for the year under review and up thistask.
to the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements, is reviewed in accordance with the guidance for Directors on internal Succession planning for Non-executive Directors is based on maintaining control issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
a depth of knowledge and experience on the Board.
The nomination committee actively manages Non-executive Director succession having The audit committee monitors the adequacy of internal financial regard to anticipated retirement dates for existing Directors and initiates controls and compliance with Group standards through a combination focused searches for Non-executive Directors as positions are required.
of a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries supplemented by regular financial assurance reviews and visits.
The Board receives reports Financial reporting on a regular basis from the executive and audit committees in relation In the Directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2010, to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has, together with the interim management statements, the interim report accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal and other reports made during the year, present a balanced and control in respect of 2010.
The review covered all material controls, understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial review on pages Audit committee 20 to 25.
The Chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an independent Director.
The Board is satisfied, since he was a Finance Director of a Internal control and risk management FTSE100 company until mid-2006, has been Chairman of the audit The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been committee for nine years and is a chartered accountant, that he has developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
opportunities to which it is exposed.
This includes a strategic planning process involving the preparation of a five year plan, a comprehensive The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved by the Directors, are Marcus Beresford, Mike Hagee, John Patterson and Board, the regular revision of forecasts for the year, the monitoring of Michael Wareing.
Details of their experience are set out on pages 32 financial performance and the appropriate delegation of authorities to to 33.
During the year, the committee met on four occasions.
Delegations and other operational controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Michael Wareing was appointed as Chairman elect of the audit Manual.
Specifically with regard to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the Group financial statements, the system includes committee in December 2010 and will assume its chairmanship at an annual and semi-annual representation letter from all business units.
the retirement of Peter Hooley at the AGM in May 2011.
Michael Wareing Included in those letters are written acknowledgements that financial is also considered to have recent and relevant financial experience reporting is based upon reliable data and that the results are properly gained in his executive role at KPMG.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Corporate governance continued and to allow the Board to set their remuneration.
The committee is The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
the year, are available on the Companys website or on application to the Company Secretary.
The committees main duties are to monitor Fees paid to the external auditors during the year are set out in note 2 the integrity of the Companys financial statements and any formal to the Group financial statements.
announcements relating to its financial performance, to consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial control systems, Shareholder relations to monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and audit activities, to make recommendations as to the appointment, activities of the Group and engages in regular dialogue with them.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors, to During the year the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity Officer held regular meetings with shareholders to discuss information and the effectiveness of the audit process and to review arrangements made public by the Group.
by which the Groups employees may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties.
In relation to the latter, it is the committees In November 2010, a presentation on the Group for shareholders took objective to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate place in London.
This presentation was made available for viewing as a and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate webcast on the investor relations section of the Companys website at follow up action to be taken.
There were opportunities during the year for fund managers and others to see Cobham products and Meetings of the committee are normally attended by invitation for part to learn about them through access to and dialogue with operational by the Chief Financial Officer, senior employees with responsibilities in management.
Presentations were given on the day of the relation to finance, accounting and financial control, financial assurance announcement of the preliminary and interim results.
Copies of the and the external auditors.
In addition, the committee holds meetings associated presentation materials, together with webcasts, can also with the external auditors and the Head of Financial Assurance in the be accessed at www.
Presentations are absence of executive management.
Invitations to non-members are conducted in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure Rules on the at the discretion of the committee.
dissemination of inside information to ensure the protection of such information that has not already been made available generally to the During the year, the committee considered reports from the external Companys shareholders.
auditors and the Head of Financial Assurance as well as reports on risk management and internal controls.
Reports were also considered on a The Board is kept informed of investors views through the receipt of number of matters including the pension scheme, treasury and funding regular reports from the Companys brokers and updates from the plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning and corporate governance Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
The Group has an anti-bribery, anti-corruption policy and significant correspondence with shareholders is also made available.
arrangements for handling whistle-blowing and the committee regularly receives and considers reports on calls made to the helpline.
In 2010, Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, both the committee and the Board reviewed the Groups procedures the Companys website, the Annual Report, the interim management in the light of the Bribery Act 2010 in the UK.
statements and at the AGM.
The AGM is attended by all Directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear a statement as to The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising progress made during the year, to question the Board on its stewardship a rotational programme of internal financial control reviews by the of the Company and to meet Directors informally.
The results of the financial assurance function, business reviews carried out by the votes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM are published on the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and a process Companys website.
of self-assessment of internal financial controls by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of the Groups activities.
Responsibility statements Where weaknesses have been identified, plans for remedying them Statements relating to the responsibilities of the Directors are on page are developed and progress monitored.
49 and those relating to the auditors are on pages 50 and 100.
The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding the supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services, as defined from time to time in the policy, can be provided subject to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The committee has received reports from the external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
The external auditors operate, in relation to the senior engagement auditor, a rotation policy after five years and the current audit partner was appointed in early 2009.
The committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and has recommended that a resolution is proposed at the AGM to re-appoint the external auditors 40 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance
