Governance Corporate governance The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed UK Corporate Governance Code compliance necessary, to take independent professional advice at the The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the addition to the access that every Director has to the General Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010.
Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance governance and this Report, together with the Directors Remuneration and compliance is implemented within the Group.
Together with the Report set out on pages 55 to 62, describes how the Board has Group Chief Executive and the General Counsel and Company applied the main principles of good governance set out in the Code Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly during the year under review.
It is the Boards view that the Company informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers has been fully compliant with the provisions of the Code or its and other information are distributed at times to allow Directors to predecessor in force during the year to 30 September 2010. be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in The Board respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity As at 30 September 2010 and as at the date of this Report, the Board of would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is Directors was made up of 10 members, comprising the Chairman, three proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has Executive Directors and six Non-executive Directors.
On 19 November also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action 2010, the Company announced that Tim Parker will retire from the Board against its Directors and officers.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing independent judgment.
The Board considers that each of the Nonand agreed by the Board.
executive Directors brings their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, mainly in international operations.
In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on developing its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each page 44.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and the remuneration of both Executive and Non-executive Directors and expertise.
During 2010, the Board conducted an evaluation is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 62. of its own performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis, as required by business need.
Each Director also attends the The evaluation focused on several areas, including Board structure, AGM to answer shareholder questions.
functionality, objectives, meetings and their content, administration, risk management, access to management and governance.
The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject The results of the evaluation were considered and discussed by to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow the Board.
money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and assets present and future and issue debentures and Performance evaluations, including the skills brought to the Board other securities and give security, whether outright or as a collateral and the contributions each Director made to it, were carried out security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any for each Director.
Executive Directors performance has been third party.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for assessed by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
its decision, although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial The Group Chief Executives performance was evaluated by the leadership and to review the overall strategic development of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Group as a whole.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values Non-executive Director led the review of the Chairmans performance and standards and ensures that it acts ethically and that its in consultation with the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
obligations to its shareholders are understood and met.
The Board The Non-executive Directors performance was considered by the may delegate any of its powers to any Committee consisting of Chairman and by the Group Chief Executive, as well as by the one or more Directors.
The Company has delegated day-to-day Board as a whole.
Consideration has also been given to whether operational decisions to the Executive Committee referred to on Directors have sufficient time to effectively discharge their page 51.
The Board met eight times during the year and Director responsibilities.
attendance for each meeting is shown below: It is envisaged that an independent formal external evaluation of Name Attendance the Board will be carried out in 2011.
Richard Cousins 8 of 8 Meetings between the Non-executive Directors, both with and Sir James Crosby 8 of 8 without the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled Sir Roy Gardner 8 of 8 in the Boards annual programme.
The Board has also arranged Gary Green 8 of 8 to hold Board meetings at Group business locations to help all Steve Lucas 7 of 8 Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
Andrew Martin 8 of 8 This also provides senior managers from across the Group with the Susan Murray 8 of 8 opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors Tim Parker 8 of 8 on more informal occasions.
Don Robert 7 of 8 Sir Ian Robinson 8 of 8 Number of meetings attended out of number which each Director was eligible to attend.
48 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate may seek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor dialogue with shareholders.
Sir James Crosby is the Companys board, for which they may retain the remuneration in respect Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
The Board believes of the appointment.
In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all that Sir James Crosby continues to have the appropriate experience, appointments are subject to the Boards approval and the Board knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
monitors the extent of Directors other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
The formal terms of reference for the main Board Committees, approved by the Board and complying with the Code, to assist A Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the CA in the discharge of its duties, are available from the General 2006 to avoid a situation in which he has or can have a direct Counsel and Company Secretary and can also be found on the or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the Companys website at www.
Terms of interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the duty that reference of the main Board Committees are reviewed annually, a Director owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any and updated where necessary.
During the year, revised terms of transaction or arrangement under consideration by the Company.
reference of the Audit Committee were adopted to reflect best The CA 2006 allows Directors of public companies to authorise practice.
Membership of the various Committees is shown on pages conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association 49 to 51.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as contain a provision to that effect.
The Companys Articles of secretary to all Board Committees.
Association include provisions giving the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow Audit Committee conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
The Board has a procedure Members of the Audit Committee the Committee are appointed by when deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the Board following recommendations by the Nomination Committee of interest.
Firstly, only independent Directors i. e. those who have and the Committees membership is reviewed by the Nomination no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take Committee and as part of the annual Board performance evaluation.
Secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to The current membership of the Audit Committee and attendance at promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors will be meetings during the year were as follows: able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
Name Attendance Any authorities given are reviewed at least every 15 months.
Steve Lucas Chairman 3 of 4 The Board considered and authorised each Directors reported Tim Parker 4 of 4 potential and actual conflicts of interest at its July and September Don Robert 4 of 4 2010 Board meetings.
Sir Ian Robinson 4 of 4 Number of meetings attended out of number which each Director was eligible Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for to attend.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience Director will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
However, from senior executive levels.
The expertise and experience of the all Directors will now submit themselves for annual election by members of the Committee are summarised on page 44.
The Board shareholders at the Companys AGM in accordance with the Code.
considers that each member of the Committee is independent within Additionally, new Directors may be appointed by the Board but are the definition set out in the Code.
Steve Lucas is considered by the subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after Board to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience as their appointment.
The Articles of Association limit the number of Finance Director of National Grid plc.
Directors to not less than two and not more than 20 save where shareholders decide otherwise.
It is Board policy that Non-executive All members of the Committee receive an appropriate induction, Directors are normally appointed for an initial term of three years which is in addition to the induction which all new Directors receive which is then reviewed and extended for a further three-year period.
and includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics It is also Board policy that Non-executive Directors should not and risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an generally serve on the Board for more than nine years.
understanding of the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored statements of recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys induction is given to all Non-executive Directors, including visits to policies, financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that key locations within the Group and meetings with members of the require the use of judgment in the presentation of accounts and key Executive Committee and other key senior executives.
The induction figures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members also covers a review of the Groups governance policies, structures of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
and business, including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
All of the Directors being proposed for re-election The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its agenda at the AGM have been subject to a performance evaluation during is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each member the year ended 30 September 2010 and the Board is content that of the Committee may require reports on matters of interest in each has continued to be effective and has demonstrated his or her addition to the regular items.
commitment to their respective role and has sufficient time to meet their commitment to the Company.
Although the Non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of the annual and interim results is encouraged.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 49 Governance Corporate governance The Committee invites Sir Roy Gardner, the Group Chief Executive, Deloitte LLP were appointed as Auditors to the Company on the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and the its incorporation, and are reappointed annually by shareholders.
Director of Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of the To ensure objectivity, key members of the Audit Team rotate off the external Auditors, to attend each meeting although, from time to Companys audit.
During the year, the Committee reviewed Deloitte time, it reserves time for discussions without invitees being present.
LLPs fees, effectiveness and whether the agreed audit plan had Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee also considered its robustness and the degree to which Deloitte LLP was able to assess key accounting and audit judgments and the content of the management letter.
The The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
Committee concluded that the audit was effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external Auditor be kept under The remuneration of the members of the Committee is set out on page 57 and the policy with regard to the remuneration of the review.
Deloitte LLP also audits significant subsidiaries of the Group.
Non-executive Directors is set out on page 62.
The total fees paid to Deloitte LLP in the year ended 30 September The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities related to 2010 were 5.4 million 2009: 4.9 million of which 1.8 million 2009: 1.5 million related to non-audit work.
Further disclosure of the external financial reporting and associated announcements.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial non-audit fees paid during the year ended 30 September 2010 can be found in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements on page 80. statements: the interim and annual announcements made to the London Stock Exchange: significant accounting issues including the consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments: operation of The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal Speak Up, the whistle-blowing policy, and the Groups internal audit audit function and its relationship with the external Auditors, function: litigation and contingent liabilities and tax matters, including including internal audit resources, plans and performance as well as compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations.
the degree to which the function is free of management restrictions.
Throughout the year, the Committee reviewed the internal audit functions plans and its achievements against plans.
The Committee The Committee is also responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external considered the results of the audits undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the adequacy of managements response to audit.
The Committee reserves oversight responsibility for monitoring the Auditors independence, objectivity and compliance with matters raised, including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
The Committee recommends the appointment, reappointment and removal of the The Committee also reviews the integrity of material financial Companys external Auditors, and considers the risks associated with statements made by the Company.
The Committee monitors and their withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, The Committee also reviews the terms, areas of responsibility and accounting policies and practices and compliance controls as well scope of the audit as set out in the external Auditors engagement as the Companys statements on internal control before they are letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming year, together with the agreed by the Board for each years annual report.
The Board associated fee proposal and cost-effectiveness of the audit: any major retains overall responsibility for internal control and the identification issues which arise during the course of the audit and their resolution: and management of business risk.
key accounting and audit judgments: the level of errors identified during the audit: the recommendations made to management by The Companys Speak Up policy which is an extension of the the Auditors and managements response: and the Auditors overall Code of Ethics sets out arrangements for the receipt, in confidence, performance.
The Committee also ensures that key partners within of complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing the external Auditors are rotated from time to time in accordance with issues and related matters which would, as appropriate, be reported applicable UK rules.
The Committee also monitors the extent of nonto the Committee, and Speak Up is a standard review item on all audit work which the external Auditors can perform, to ensure that the internal work programmes.
A copy of the Code of Ethics is available provision of those non-audit services that can be undertaken by the on the Companys website at www.
The external Auditors falls within the agreed policy and does not impair Committee also receives regular updates on bribery and fraud their objectivity or independence.
In this respect the Committee trends and activity in the business, if any, at least twice each year has agreed that, unless there is no other competent and available with individual updates being given to the Committee, as needed, provider, the external Auditors should be excluded from providing in more serious cases of alleged bribery, fraud or related activities.
the Company with general consultancy and all other non-audit and The Groups anti-fraud policies are a subset of the Code of Ethics non-tax-related services.
which does not tolerate any activity involving fraud, dishonesty or deception.
These policies, for which the Committee retains overall Within the constraints of applicable UK rules, the external Auditors responsibility, set out how allegations of fraud or bribery are dealt with, such as by the local human resources or finance team and the undertake some due diligence reviews and provide assistance on tax matters given their in-depth knowledge of the Groups business, frequency of local reporting which feeds into the regular updates which are presented to the Committee.
Reporting of these matters although assistance on tax matters is also obtained from other firms.
The provision of non-audit services within such constraints and to the Committee is managed and overseen by internal audit.
The Speak Up policy operates when the complaint is received through the agreed policy is assessed on a case-by-case basis so that the best-placed advisor is retained.
the whistle-blowing channel and that policy will redirect the alleged fraud or bribery for investigation by the most appropriately placed person, who may, on occasion, for example, be the Committee itself or a member of a local human resources team.
Each year the Committee reviews critically its own performance and considers where improvements can be made.
50 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee The Nomination Committee meets on an as needed basis.
The current The Corporate Responsibility Committees primary responsibilities membership and attendance at meetings during the year were as follows: include: health, safety and environmental practices, business conduct, the promotion of employee engagement and diversity Name Attendance and community investment.
Sir Roy Gardner Chairman 2 of 2 The current membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Richard Cousins 2 of 2 and attendance at meetings during the year were as follows: Sir James Crosby 2 of 2 Susan Murray 2 of 2 Name Attendance Don Robert 2 of 2 Susan Murray Chairman 3 of 3 Sir Ian Robinson 2 of 2 Sir Roy Gardner 3 of 3 Number of meetings attended out of number which each Director was eligible Richard Cousins 3 of 3 to attend.
Jane Kingston 3 of 3 Steve Lucas 3 of 3 The Nomination Committee reviews the structure, size and Andrew Martin 3 of 3 composition of the Board and its committees and makes Mark White 3 of 3 recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, both in the identification and nomination of new Directors Number of meetings attended out of number which each Director member was and appointment of members to the Boards committees, and the eligible to attend.
continuation of existing Directors in office to ensure that there is a balanced Board in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
Disclosure Committee The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all appropriate and reviews the senior leadership needs of the Group to matters relating to public announcements of the Company and the enable it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Companys obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
executive board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
The Disclosure Committee comprises Andrew Martin, Mark White, the Group Financial Controller and the Director of Corporate Remuneration Committee Strategy, Media and Investor Relations.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations on remuneration to the Board.
The Directors Executive Committee Remuneration Report is set out on pages 55 to 62.
The Executive Committee is the key management committee and comprises the Executive Directors of the Company, the General The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the AGM Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Human Resources to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on Director and the Group Managing Directors.
The Committee the Remuneration Committees activities.
normally meets monthly and is responsible for developing the Groups strategy and capital expenditure and investment The current membership of the Remuneration Committee and budgets and reporting on these areas to the Board for approval, attendance at meetings during the year were as follows: implementing Group policy, monitoring financial, operational and customer quality of service performance, health and safety, Name Attendance purchasing and supply chain issues, succession planning, and day-to-day management of the Group.
Sir James Crosby Chairman 4 of 4 Steve Lucas 3 of 4 Susan Murray 4 of 4 Internal audit Tim Parker 4 of 4 The internal audit function is involved in the assessment of the Number of meetings attended out of number which each Director was eligible quality of risk management and internal control and helps to promote to attend.
and further develop effective risk management within the business.
Certain internal audit assignments such as those requiring specialist All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent expertise continue to be outsourced by the Director of Internal within the definition set out in the Code.
Audit to KPMG LLP as appropriate.
A policy has been established regarding the recruitment of staff from Deloitte LLP.
The Audit General Business Committee Committee reviews internal audit reports and considers the effectiveness of the function.
The General Business Committee comprises all the Executive Directors and meets as required to conduct the Companys business within clearly defined limits delegated by the Board and subject to those matters reserved to the Board.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 51 Governance Corporate governance Internal control Control procedures In a highly decentralised Group, where local management have The Board reviews its strategic plans and objectives on an annual considerable autonomy to run and develop their businesses, a well basis and approves Group company budgets and strategies in light designed system of internal control is necessary to safeguard of these.
Control is exercised at Group and business level through shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The Directors the Groups Management and Performance MAP framework and acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Groups monthly monitoring of performance by comparison with budgets, systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of those forecasts and cash targets and by regular visits to Group businesses controls.
In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Group Report, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined businesses approve and submit risk reports for the Board on a Code, and the Code, an ongoing process has been established for biannual basis, summarising the key risks facing their businesses and identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
the controls in place to manage those risks.
These reports, together This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to with reports on internal control and departures, if any, from established the date on which the financial statements were approved.
Group procedures prepared by the internal and external auditors, are reviewed by the Group Finance Director and the Audit Committee.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the The Group companies also submit biannual risk and internal control assurance letters to the Group Finance Director on internal control risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives, safeguard the Groups assets against material loss, fairly report the Groups and risk management issues, with comments on the control environment within their operations.
The Group Finance Director performance and position and to ensure compliance with relevant legislation, regulation and best practice including that related to summarises these submissions for the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on any matters social, environmental and ethical matters.
The systems provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement that have arisen from the Committees review of the way in which risk management and internal control processes have been applied.
Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing circumstances.
The Board has formal procedures in place for approval of investment and acquisition projects, with designated levels of authority, A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given on pages 22 to 31.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an supported by post investment review processes for selected acquisitions and major capital expenditure.
The Board considers integral part of the annual planning cycle.
Each business documents the strategic objectives and the effectiveness of the Groups systems social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to the Groups business and assesses these when reviewing the risks faced by the of internal control.
As part of the review, each significant business and function has been required to identify and document each Group.
The Board is conscious of the effect such matters may have on the shortand long-term value of the Company.
The external substantial risk, together with the mitigating actions implemented to manage, monitor and report to management on the effectiveness of Auditors of the Company and the Director of Internal Audit attend Audit Committee meetings and receive its papers.
The report of these controls.
Senior managers are also required to sign biannual confirmations of compliance with key procedures and to report any the Audit Committee is set out on pages 49 to 50 and the Audit Committee members meet regularly with the Director of Internal breakdowns in, or exceptions to, these procedures.
Summarised results have been presented to senior management including to the Audit and the external Auditors without the presence of executive management.
Executive Committee and to the Board.
These processes have been in place throughout the financial year ended 30 September 2010 and have continued to the date of this Report.
The Board has reviewed There were no changes to the Companys internal control over the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 30 September year under review and a summary of the principal control structures 2010 that have affected materially, or are reasonably likely to affect and processes in place across the Group is set out below.
materially, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
Control environment Compliance statement Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system The Company applied all of the principles set out in the Code and of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, it has delegated its predecessor for the period under review and has, throughout the responsibility for the operation of the internal control and risk year, complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
management programme to the Executive Committee.
The detailed review of internal control has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Companys Auditors, Deloitte LLP, are required to review The management of each business is responsible for internal whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance control and risk management within its own business and for with the nine provisions of the Code specified for its review by the ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not Each business has appointed a risk champion whose primary role reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
in such capacity is to ensure compliance by local management with the Groups risk management and internal control programme.
The internal and the external Auditors have reviewed the overall approach adopted by the Group towards its risk management activities so as to reinforce these internal control requirements.
52 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance Communication with shareholders Awards under employee share schemes The Company places considerable importance on communication In May 2010, options were granted over 4,102,900 ordinary shares with its shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
The 2009: 5,564,975 to senior employees of the Group at an option Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are closely price of 557.50 pence per share.
The 2010 grant was the first involved in investor relations and a senior executive has day-to-day award made under the Compass Group Share Option Plan 2010 responsibility for such matters.
The views of the Companys major which was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and shareholders are reported to the Board by the Group Chief Executive replaced the Compass Group Management Share Option Plan, and the Group Finance Director as well as by the Chairman who the rules of which will expire in February 2012.
The Company also remains in contact with the 10 largest shareholders and discussed operates an all employee share incentive plan approved by HM at its meetings.
The Annual Report and Accounts are available to Revenue & Customs under which UK employees can purchase all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be the Companys shares at market price.
No Director or Person accessed via the Companys website at www.
Discharging Managerial Responsibility participates in such plan.
Further details regarding the plans, including the total number of options outstanding, are set out in notes 23 and 24 to the There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and this has been extended to include private shareholders through the AGM consolidated financial statements on pages 107 to 112.
Shareholders also approved The Compass Group PLC Long Term Incentive Plan and meetings with the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with financial analysts, 2010 2010 LTIP at its February 2010 AGM for Directors and senior executives, which replaced the Compass Group Long-Term brokers and the media is controlled by written guidelines to ensure the protection of share price sensitive information that has not Incentive Plan, the rules of which expired during the year.
Conditional awards over 264,912 shares were made to executives already been made generally available to the Companys shareholders.
Contact is also maintained, when appropriate, with shareholders to under the 2010 LTIP in May 2010 2009: nil.
Awards to Directors during the year were made under the Compass Group Long-Term discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the Incentive Plan.
Details of these, and the total number of LTIP awards outstanding as at 30 September 2010, are set out on page 59 London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website at www.
The Company issues regular trading of the Directors Remuneration Report.
updates and interim management statements to the market and these, together with copies of interviews and presentations by the Employee policies and involvement Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, are posted on The Group places particular importance on the involvement of the Companys website.
its employees, keeping them regularly informed through informal bulletins and other in-house publications, meetings and the The Notice of AGM is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 Companys internal websites, on matters affecting them as working days before such meeting and it is Company policy not employees and on the issues affecting their performance.
Those to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All Compass businesses in the European Economic Area which have shareholders are invited to the Companys AGM at which they have domestic information and consultation processes in place, such the opportunity to put questions to the Board and it is standard as works councils, are able to select representatives to participate practice to have the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and in the Compass European Council, which has been in operation Remuneration Committees available to answer questions.
The since 1996 and provides a forum for exchanging information and results of proxy voting for and against each resolution, as well as engaging in consultation on the Groups performance and plans, abstentions, are announced to the London Stock Exchange and and relevant transnational issues.
At the date of this Report there are published on the Companys website shortly after the meeting.
are 23 employee representatives from 13 countries on the Compass European Council.
Donations Permanent UK employees are usually invited to join either the The Companys Corporate Responsibility Report is set out on pages 35 to 43.
The Groups charitable donations in 2010 totalled Companys defined contribution scheme CRISP or the Companys stakeholder pension arrangement.
However, those UK 5.8 million 2009: 5.6 million.
employees who transfer from the public sector under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 will At each AGM held since 2004, shareholders have passed a be eligible to join the Compass Group Pension Plan the Plan, resolution, on a precautionary basis, to approve donations to EU a defined benefit arrangement which is otherwise closed to political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such new entrants.
The Chairman, terms were defined under the then relevant legislation not exceeding Tony Allen, is independent.
The other six Trustee Directors are 125,000 per annum.
The Board has consistently confirmed that it UK-based employees of the Group, three of whom have been operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political nominated by CRISP members.
The Plan has a corporate Trustee.
party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no The Chairman, Peter Morriss, is independent.
There are a further intention of changing that policy.
The Directors, however, propose seven Trustee Directors and they are UK-based employees or to seek renewed authority for the Group to make political donations former employees of the Group, four of whom have been and incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections nominated by Plan members although one of these positions is 362 to 365 of the CA 2006 of not more than 125,000 in total until vacant.
The other main UK pension arrangement, the Compass the Companys next AGM, which they might otherwise be prohibited Pension Scheme the Scheme is a closed defined benefit from making or incurring under the terms of the CA 2006 and which arrangement.
As with the Plan and CRISP, the Scheme has a would not amount to donations in the ordinary sense of the word.
The Chairman, David Bishop, is independent.
The authority sought by Resolution 15 in the Notice of Meeting will The remaining six Trustee Directors are UK-based employees last until the Companys next AGM.
or former employees of the Group, three of whom have been nominated by Scheme members.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 53 Governance Corporate governance Permanent employees outside of the UK are usually offered CREST membership of local pension arrangements if and where they exist The Companys ordinary shares and Sterling Eurobonds are in or limited global arrangements where it is appropriate to have CREST, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
Employees are offered a range of benefits depending on the local Auditors environment, such as private medical cover.
Priority is given to the Deloitte LLP are willing to continue as Auditors of the Company training of employees and the development of their skills is of prime and Resolution 13 in the Notice of Meeting concerning their importance.
Employment of disabled people is considered on reappointment and Resolution 14 in the Notice of Meeting merit with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the concerning the determination of their remuneration are to be function required.
Arrangements to enable disabled people to carry proposed at the AGM.
The Directors confirm that, so far as they are out the function required will be made if it is reasonable to do so.
An each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Deloitte employee becoming disabled would, where appropriate, be offered LLP are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that retraining.
The Group continues to operate on a decentralised basis.
ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware of any relevant This provides the maximum encouragement for the development audit information and to establish that Deloitte LLP are aware of of entrepreneurial flair, balanced by a rigorous control framework that information.
exercised by a small head office team.
Local management teams are responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety AGM and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in decision making.
The Notice of Meeting setting out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 3 February 2011, together with explanatory Creditor payment policy notes, is set out on pages 130 to 136 of this Annual Report and is also available on the Companys website at www.
All Group companies are responsible for establishing terms and conditions with their suppliers and it is Group policy that payments On behalf of the Board are made within such agreed terms and conditions.
The amount of trade creditors for the Group as at 30 September 2010 was equivalent to 63 days 2009: 58 days of trade purchases.
Mark J White Shareholder services General Counsel and Company Secretary The Share Portal is a service offered by our Registrars, Capita 24 November 2010 Registrars, which allows shareholders online access to a range of shareholder information.
The Share Portal provides access to details Compass Group PLC of shareholdings in the Company and practical help on transferring Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 shares and updating personal details.
It enables shareholders to register to receive shareholder communications electronically, rather than by post and it also enables shareholders to appoint proxies to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
To register, shareholders simply need to log on to www.
com and follow the instructions to register.
Shareholders registering for the Share Portal will need to have their investor code to hand which is shown on share certificates and on the Form of Proxy sent with this Report.
The Companys ordinary shares can be traded through most banks, building societies, stockbrokers or share shops in the UK and, in addition, Capita Registrars provides a share dealing service maximum deal size 25,000 which is available to shareholders resident in the UK.
This is a simple and convenient way to buy and sell shares over the telephone and on the Internet without the need to pre-register and complete application forms.
To use this service either log on to www.
com or call Freephone 0800 280 2545 Monday to Friday between 8.00 a. m. and 4.30 p. m.. Further general shareholder information is set out on pages 128 to 129 and on the Companys website at www.
54 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
