49 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following sections explain how the Company applies the To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors main and supporting principles and the provisions of the 2008 are required to inform the Chairman before taking up any Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined additional external appointments.
The Board confirms that throughout 2010 the Company Charles Strauss is the senior independent director and he is has complied with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code responsible for undertaking the annual review of the Chairmans save as detailed below.
As from 1 January 2011 the Company performance and chairing the Nomination Committee when became subject to the terms of the UKs new Corporate considering the role of Chairman.
He is available to shareholders Governance Code, which applies to accounting periods if they need to convey concerns to the Board other than through beginning on or after 29 June 2010 the Corporate Governance the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
Code and will report against the Corporate Governance Code in its 2011 financial statements.
In accordance with the Articles of Association directors appointed to the Board since the previous annual general The Board meeting, those who have not been subject to re-election at the All directors are collectively responsible for the overall success previous two years annual general meetings and non-executive of the Company and for the creation of long-term shareholder directors who have served nine years or more on the Board are value.
Executive directors have direct responsibility for business all required to retire and may offer themselves for re-election operations, whereas the non-executive directors have a at the next annual general meeting.
The Corporate Governance responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear Code provides for annual re-election of all directors.
This includes constructively challenging The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief management and helping to develop the Companys strategy.
Executive Officer is set out in writing and has been agreed by the The Board comprises ten directors the Chairman who also Board.
acted as interim Chief Executive Officer from December 2008 to The Chairman is responsible for: April 2010, four executive directors and five independent nonexecutive directors.
Details of the directors and their biographies the composition and leadership of the Board are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The directors have a broad range monitoring corporate governance processes of expertise and experience, which we believe contributes ensuring effective communication with shareholders and significantly to the effectiveness of the Board.
other stakeholders Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have supporting the Chief Executive Officer.
been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for: management of the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially affect the exercise of their the development and execution of the Groups strategy independent judgement.
The Chairman was independent at the the Groups operational performance time of his appointment.
leading the executive team The other significant commitments of the Chairman are set out leading the management of relationships with external in his biography on page 42. stakeholders.
The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors Ordinarily the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are and other senior employees accepting external non-executive performed by separate individuals in accordance with provision directorships in order to broaden their skills and knowledge for A.
However, following the departure of the benefit of the Company.
The Board has adopted a policy on the former CEO in November 2008, the Chairman, John Napier, external appointments which is designed to ensure that was appointed to the additional role of interim Chief Executive employees remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the Officer as it was unanimously considered by the Board to be the Group.
Directors and employees are usually permitted to retain most appropriate short-term arrangement.
John Napier reverted any fees in respect of such appointments.
to his role as Chairman upon the appointment of Jerry Buhlmann Directors must not vote in respect of any contract or other as Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Group plc on 1 May 2010. proposal in which they or any person connected with them have a material interest otherwise than by virtue of their Board meetings interests in securities of the Company.
The Articles of The Board meets nine or ten times a year and more frequently Association were amended by shareholders at the 2009 Annual when business needs require.
During the year, the Board met General Meeting to address the new statutory provisions on average once a month.
At least one Board meeting is regarding directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest extended in length to consider fully the ongoing development of which came into force on 1 October 2008 under the Companies the Companys strategic plans.
Board meetings are structured to Act 2006 and the Company has taken steps to ensure allow open discussion and all directors participate in discussing compliance with the new law on conflicts of interest and has the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk procedures in place to identify and deal with any conflict management of the Company.
Those procedures have operated effectively throughout 2010.
They include procedures for the Board to authorise any conflicts that may arise if necessary and a regular review of all such actual and potential conflicts last undertaken in March 2011.
GOVERNANCE 50 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board meetings continued All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board various business activities which the Group undertakes and for decision.
These include approval of: regularly receive information concerning the Groups operations, finances, key risks and its employees, enabling them to fulfil Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans their duties and obligations as directors.
results announcements The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an dividend policy agenda and supporting documentation.
At each Board meeting circulars and listing particulars there are a number of standard agenda report items.
Senior matters relating to share capital managers and external advisors are also invited to attend meetings where relevant input is needed.
The Board also major capital projects, investments and commitments.
receives briefings from the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and other Committees following meetings of those Committees.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings in year 12 562 John Napier 12 5 2 John Brady 12 62 Jerry Buhlmann 12 1 Simon Laffin 12 52 Harold Mitchell appointed 15.12.10 Robert Philpott 11 appointed 18.03.10 Nick Priday 12 Martin Read 11 52 Charles Strauss 11 52 Lorraine Trainer 11 62 John Napier did not attend the Remuneration Committee meeting convened to discuss his remuneration as chairman.
appointed to the Nomination Committee 1 May 2010.
In addition to the above John Napier as interim Chief Executive Induction and training Officer, Jerry Buhlmann as Chief Executive Officer and Nick Directors undertake an induction programme when they join Priday regularly attended, by invitation, meetings of the Audit the Board and receive a range of information about the Group.
Committee and Jerry Buhlmann as Chief Executive Officer The induction programme also includes, where appropriate, regularly attended, by invitation, meetings of the Remuneration meetings with other members of the Board and briefings and Committee.
presentations regarding the Groups operations from senior executives.
Ongoing training needs for directors are met as From time to time the non-executive directors, including the required.
Chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and Director liability the operation of the Company.
The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Performance appraisal process directors.
In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to its The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent directors in respect of third party claims, as described in the director, continued the process of meeting annually without the Directors report on page 44.
Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Where appropriate, the senior independent All directors have access to the advice and services of the director then meets with the Chairman to discuss any particular company secretary and, if required, external professional advice issues arising.
If a director has particular concerns, he or she may specifically request that they be recorded in the A review of the Boards performance was undertaken in Board minutes.
November 2010, involving all members of the Board at that time.
However, as substantial changes were made to the Boards composition in the second half of 2009, and Jerry Buhlmann was only appointed as Chief Executive Officer in mid 2010, it was not considered appropriate to undertake external performance reviews during 2010.
Further Board and committee reviews will take place in 2011 and will be reported on in the 2011 financial statements.
51 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Board committees Based on written reports submitted to it, the Committee Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly reviewed with the external auditors the findings of their audit reviewed and are available on the Companys website at work, and confirmed that all significant matters had been www.
com and from the company secretary on request.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations Audit Committee to the Board in relation to the external auditors independence Simon Laffin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is a and monitors the policy on the engagement of the auditors for chartered management accountant and the Board is satisfied the supply of non-audit services.
Details of amounts paid to the that he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are to lead the Committee in its duties and deliberations.
The other given in Note 5 to the financial statements.
The Committee has two members of the Committee are Charles Strauss and Martin confirmed that the policy concerning rotation of the audit Read.
Biographical details of the members of the Audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute Committee, all of whom are independent non-executive of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
directors, are set out on page 43.
The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from At the invitation of its Chairman, meetings of the Committee 2004.
The audit engagement partner rotates every five years.
were generally attended, in whole or in part, by the Chief The Audit Committee recommends to the Board the Financial Officer, the external auditors, the company secretary appointment of the external auditor.
There are no contractual and the head of Internal Audit.
Several meetings were attended obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of by John Napier as interim Chief Executive Officer and Jerry external auditor.
Buhlmann as Chief Executive Officer.
In addition, other members of senior management were invited to attend as The Committee has considered the balance between fees for necessary to provide updates and background information on audit and non-audit work for the Group in the year and matters considered by the Committee.
concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
The Committee regularly meets with the auditors without executive directors or management present.
Remuneration Committee The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lorraine Trainer.
an objective and professional relationship with the Companys The other two members of the Committee are John Brady and external auditors.
Both Lorraine Trainer and John Brady are independent non-executive directors and John Napier was Work carried out by the Committee during 2010, in accordance considered to be independent on his appointment as Chairman with its responsibilities, included: in July 2008.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial suggests a remuneration committee should comprise at least statements and reviewing significant reporting judgements three independent non-executive directors in addition to the chairman of the Board, however the Board considers the current monitoring the effectiveness of internal audit, risk composition of the Committee to be effective, efficient and management and controls, and considering progress reports appropriate to the Companys needs.
from the risk committees and head of internal audit reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and Members of the Committee have no conflict of interest arising procedures.
Further details of the steps taken to update and from cross directorships.
Except as stated below members of improve the Companys internal financial controls and the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than procedures during the year are given on page 53 as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
John Napiers remuneration as chairman following the expiry of his reviewing the external auditors independence, objectiveness appointment as interim Chief Executive Officer was agreed and effectiveness by the Committee at a meeting in August 2010 attended by all approving the external auditors terms of engagement, the non-executive directors other than John Napier.
scope of the audit and the applicable levels of materiality Meetings of the Committee were generally attended, in whole reviewing its own terms of reference or in part, by the Group human resources director, the company prior to the release of the preliminary announcement of the secretary and following his appointment as Chief Executive annual results, reviewing the years results and audit findings.
Some meetings of the Committee In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the were also attended, in part, at the invitation of the chairman, by Committee focused in particular on: the Chief Financial Officer.
A representative of Deloitte LLP, independent remuneration consultants, attended one meeting.
any changes in accounting policies and practices Apart from members of the Committee, no-one attending its major judgemental areas meetings is present as of right and no-one including members issues resulting from the external audit of the Committee attends when their own remuneration is discussed.
the going concern assumption compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code compliance with UK Listing Authority regulations and stock exchange and legal requirements.
GOVERNANCE 52 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board committees continued Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee continued The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive The Committee usually meets at least three times a year and directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired more frequently if required.
Its main by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets as and responsibilities are: when required but at least once a year.
determining and recommending the policy and framework for The Committee is responsible for: the remuneration of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer reviewing the Board structure, size and composition and executive directors identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for within policy terms and in consultation with the Chairman, appointment or re-appointment as directors Chief Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate, reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment determining the total remuneration packages of the for non executive directors, with any individual in question not Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and other executive taking part in the discussion.
directors considering proposals in relation to other senior executive During the year the principal business of the Committees management meetings included considering and recommending to the Board the appointments of Jerry Buhlmann as Group Chief Executive overseeing the design of the Groups share based long term Officer for which the Committee used the services of an incentive schemes, including approving the value of awards external search and recruitment consultancy and of Robert and overseeing the operation of performance conditions.
Philpott and Harold Mitchell as executive directors.
During the year the principal business of Committee meetings included the following: Internal control and risk management The Group operates a system of internal control, which is determining the remuneration payable to Robert Philpott maintained and reviewed in accordance with the Combined Code on his appointment to the Board 2008 replaced as from 1 January 2011 by the Corporate determining the remuneration payable to Jerry Buhlmann Governance Code, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and on his appointment as Group Chief Executive Officer Transparency Rules and the guidance contained in the Turnbull introducing a revised bonus scheme for Aegis Media Report as revised.
conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive directors and the Chief Executive Officers recommendation Internal control governance for his executive team based on review of actual performance The Board sets out in this section the actions undertaken during the year and up to the date of this report.
the consideration and approval of bonus payments for 2009 ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions for Responsibilities vesting awards under the Groups share option schemes and The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the performance share plans Group adopts a suitable system of internal control and reviews approving new awards under the Groups performance share this annually to ensure its effectiveness.
It delegates some of plans this responsibility to the Audit Committee.
In turn, the Audit reviewing the Groups executive reward arrangements Committee places reliance on reports it receives from management, the Group internal audit function and the external determining the remuneration payable to John Napier auditors.
Day-to-day responsibility for embedding the Groups following the expiry of his appointment as interim Chief system of internal controls lies with the executive and senior Executive Officer management teams, and the reporting and detailed drafting of the Remuneration report consideration of internal control matters are the responsibility Considering the implications of forthcoming changes to the of the Groups risk committees.
UK pension regime reviewing the design of the Groups share schemes.
Internal control framework The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage, but cannot eliminate, the risk of the Group not achieving its overall objectives.
The Groups internal control framework can only be expected to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that the Groups assets and reputation are safeguarded and are not subject to material loss or financial misstatement.
The Groups system incorporates controls designed to mitigate against strategic, financial, commercial, operational, governance and other risks.
As they are not controlled by the Group, the Groups joint ventures and associates adopt their own policies and procedures, and the Group therefore places reliance on the systems of internal controls operating within our partners businesses.
53 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Internal control framework continued Risk committees Whilst the control environment provides this level of reasonable The Board has ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the assurance, nevertheless the Board recognises that aspects of Group has an effective framework in place for managing its the internal control framework can always be further improved risks.
The risk committee structure supports the Board via the and steps were taken in 2010 as follows: Audit Committee in fulfilling these responsibilities.
KPMG was commissioned in March to undertake a The Group has 3 risk committees one within each of its comprehensive independent review of the Groups overall principal operating divisions, Aegis Media and Synovate, chaired control environment and, as appropriate, to provide by their respective chief executive officers, and a Head Office recommendations as to how it might be further improved.
risk committee chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
Those recommendations have now been implemented.
Collectively, these committees provide a forum for the discussion of key risks faced by the Group, the development of 2.
KPMG performed site visits at a dozen of the Groups offices risk assessment techniques and the consideration and approval to conduct interviews and walkthrough testing of controls.
of risk management action plans.
By November, the Group had revised and re-launched all Each of the divisional risk committees comprises a varied range of its policies and procedures globally.
An online training of senior representatives from different markets, disciplines programme for more than 500 of the Groups senior and business streams.
The principal duties of these committees managers facilitated the implementation of these policies.
are to ensure that risks within the divisions are identified and 4.
The finance function reporting lines were changed and a appropriately managed and to approve minimum standards and number of key appointments were made to strengthen the procedures to enhance the control environment.
Divisional risk financial control environment.
Appointments included new registers were developed and expanded towards the end of the regional CFOs for Aegis Media in North America and year and into 2011 and will continue to be reviewed and revised Western Europe and a new Financial Controller for Aegis as appropriate.
Further resources are being provided in key areas The Head Office risk committee ensures that effective risk to support regional management teams.
management policies and procedures are established for 5.
The Group identified the need for, and has recruited, a matters which relate to the Group Head Offices functional Director of Risk and Audit with broad responsibility for risk expertise, such as tax, treasury and Group finance.
The Head management and internal control, as well as oversight of the Office risk register has been reviewed in detail and updated internal audit function.
The Director of Risk and Audit will during the year and into 2011, and will continue to be developed report into the Audit Committee and the Group Chief as appropriate.
Meetings are attended by senior head office Financial Officer.
Following this appointment, internal audit management drawn from all the Groups principal Head Office will continue to be strengthened in 2011. functions.
Reporting lines for all 3 of the Groups risk committees have 6.
A new Group-wide financial reporting and consolidation been aligned during the year, with each committee now system was also commissioned, to facilitate and improve the reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
The Group Chief reporting process.
This system is in the final stages of Financial Officer or other senior executives have attended all development and testing and will be rolled out across the risk committee meetings to ensure a consistent approach to Group in the first half of 2011. risk and the dissemination of good practice amongst the three 7.
The Groups three risk committees now each report directly committees.
The risks identified, and the control mechanisms into the Audit Committee and are each chaired by the most applicable to each risk and how well they are being managed, appropriate senior executive director.
Aegis Media and are maintained in the relevant risk registers.
Following the reSynovates risk committees are chaired by their respective launch of the Groups policies and procedures and minimum Chief Executive Officers and the Head Office risk committee control standards to mitigate Group risks, meetings of all risk is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
committees now take place on a quarterly basis.
The 2010 annual self-certification compliance process has been updated and reinforced to ensure alignment with the Internal audit revised policies and procedures.
As noted above, the Group identified the need for, and recruited, a Director of Risk and Audit with broad responsibility for risk 9.
The Group has undertaken a program of testing financial management and internal control, as well as oversight of the controls using Deloitte in a number of key markets and via internal audit function.
The Director of Risk and Audit will report self assessment in all other markets.
Improvements to the Audit Committee and the Group Chief Financial Officer.
identified by this testing program are being actioned by The internal audit function will continue to be strengthened in business units and monitored by internal audit.
2011 with additional resource being deployed.
The Group formalised its whistle-blowing procedures, known as Speak-up, and rolled them out across the Group The Groups internal audit function is considered to be during 2010. independent of the operations and monitors the business units application of the Companys principles and policies and their overall control of risks.
GOVERNANCE 54 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Risk committees continued A summary of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties is Internal audit continued included in the Business Review section on pages 32 to 35.
The overall effectiveness of the internal audit function is monitored by the Audit Committee, which receives regular Employee concerns reports detailing the findings arising from the internal audit As mentioned above, the Group has arrangements in place that functions work, issues reported under the Groups whistle allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible blowing procedures, and any actual or suspected frauds wrongdoing in matters of financial reporting or other matters, detected or reported anywhere in the Group.
without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are raised in good faith.
The Audit Committee reviews these arrangements Review of internal control effectiveness to ensure that there is proportionate and independent investigation The Audit Committee reports to the Board on the adequacy of any reported concerns and that appropriate follow up action of the Groups internal controls system.
The Audit Committee is taken and has recently instigated a review to ensure the receives reports from management and the head of internal effectiveness of the Groups worldwide Speak-up policy.
audit on the integrity of the Groups control environment.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee on the control Relations with shareholders environment by exception following their half year review and full The Board encourages an active policy of constructive dialogue year audit.
Copies of minutes of all risk committee meetings, with its shareholders, which is led by the Chairman and Chief as well as copies of the risk registers, are made available to Executive Officer.
members of the Audit Committee.
Executive directors meet regularly with major shareholders.
The 2010 year-end annual compliance self certification process The Board encourages investor contact, including holding onehas been updated to ensure alignment with the revised Group to-one meetings and group events with existing shareholders policies and procedures.
The chief executive officer and chief and non-holders alike.
During the year roadshows were held in financial officer of each entity across the Group is required to North America and the UK.
Non-executive directors are available complete an annual certificate to confirm, in relation to such to meet with institutional shareholders on request.
entity, that: JP Morgan Cazenove, the Groups joint financial advisers, the Groups policies and procedures were adhered to provide the Board with written reports covering changes in the accounts as submitted were accurate and complete and valuation and ownership, market and sector issues on a prepared in accordance with Group accounting policies monthly basis, and along with Numis Securities are available there were no actual or potential breaches of laws or for shareholder relations advice.
regulations The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for shareholders there were no known frauds to address questions to the Chairman and the respective there were no related party transactions other than those chairmen of the Board committees or other members of the properly disclosed Board directly.
there were no conflicted directorships all relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
Published information, including press releases, presentations and webcasts of our results meetings, is available on our Similar certifications have been required of regional, global and corporate website, www.
Further information about the Group can be obtained by The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the contacting 0207 070 7700 or communications@aegisplc.
system of internal controls and considers that there are ongoing processes in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that these processes Andrew Moberly have been in place and improved during 2010 and up to the date Company Secretary of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board considers that the information received was sufficient to monitor 16 March 2011 the process and review its effectiveness in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Controls.
