56 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: CORpORAtE GOvERnAnCE Governance report COntInUED the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director attend the auDit committee report financial results presentations.
the Board is kept informed about any such discussions with shareholders and the Directors are regularly provided with analyst and broker reports.
During the summer, Makinson Cowell undertook an investor perception survey amongst institutional investors.
Both the Companys investors as well as institutions who do not hold shares in the Company, were interviewed.
the results, which were presented to the Board, were generally positive with support for the Companys strategy and management communications.
Recommendations to further enhance communications have been addressed in investor relations planning for 2011. the Companys website www.
com provides shareholders with comprehensive information on the Groups recent business activities and financial developments.
I was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee Shareholders can access this information through webcasts, the Committee in May 2010.
Following a period press releases and interviews with the Chief Executive.
of major corporate activity and with the integration of Brixton being substantially complete this year, the Committee was able to focus on the Groups constructive use of the aGm control environment, the valuation process and the notice of AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least the Groups business continuity planning, especially 20 working days before the meeting.
the Company proposes in relation to IT.
separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting the Chief Executive makes a presentation to The priorities for the Committee during 2011, shareholders on the progress and performance of the Group will be to undertake a thorough review of the prior to the formal business of the meeting.
effectiveness of the internal and external auditors, to monitor compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and be and to continue to monitor the resilience of the available to answer shareholders questions either during or Groups IT systems.
All of the Directors attended the 2010 AGM.
For each resolution, shareholders have the option to Doug Webb, direct their vote either for or against a resolution or to withhold Chairman of the Audit Committee their vote.
At the 2010 AGM, voting was conducted by a poll.
the Committee comprised Doug Webb, Andrew palmer the Board believes this enhances shareholder democracy, as and thom Wernink.
Lord Blackwell and Stephen Howard all shares voted at the meeting as well as proxy votes lodged were members of the Committee, until the 2010 AGM prior to the meeting, are counted.
the Company intends to when they retired from the Board.
Andrew palmer was continue with this practice.
the Chairman of the Committee until Doug Webbs Following the meeting, the results of votes lodged for and appointment in May 2010.
Andrew palmer is a member against each resolution are announced to the London Stock of the Financial Reporting Review panel of the Financial Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
Reporting Council and a former Finance Director of a FtSE 100 company.
Doug Webb is Chief Financial Officer of London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Accordingly, both have recent and relevant financial experience.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, there are a number of regular attendees at each meeting including the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller and representatives of the internal auditors and external auditors.
the Committee regularly meets with the external and internal auditors without management being present.
com 57 auDit committee report In order to monitor the effectiveness of the framework, at During the year, the Committees principal activities included: each meeting the Committee receives written and verbal reviewing the integrity, consistency and key judgements reports from the Finance Director and representatives in the Companys final and halfyear financial statements: of the internal auditors and the external auditors on progress with internal control activities.
reviewing the valuation reports and considering any significant changes to the valuation of individual assets: these reports include: oversight and challenge of the internal control process reviews of business processes and activities, including and the control environment: action plans to address any identified control weaknesses or recommendations for improvements in controls monitoring the independence and effectiveness of or processes: the internal and external auditors: managements own assessments of the strengths and oversight of the risk management process: and weaknesses of the overall control environment in their reviewing business continuity plans.
area of responsibility and the action plans to address the weaknesses: Deloitte LLp were appointed external auditors of the Group in 2007 following a competitive tender process.
During the results of the internal audits: the year, the Committee considered the appointment, internal control recommendations made by the external compensation and independence of the external auditors.
auditors: and the Committee has a policy for the use of the external followup actions of previous internal control auditors for nonaudit services.
this policy was reviewed recommendations.
and updated during the year.
the policy recognises that there are certain services where, due to their knowledge the Committee also receives reports from senior managers of the Company, Deloitte LLp will be in the best position on specific business activities.
During 2010, these included to perform nonaudit services.
Similarly, the policy has a presentations from the Group Financial Controller and the nonexhaustive list of functions that Deloitte LLp should not It Director.
provide as it could be detrimental to their independence as the Board and the Committee monitor managements external auditors.
Following the acquisition of Drivers Jonas action plans designed to implement improvements in by Deloitte LLp, this policy has been amended to formalise internal controls which have been identified as a result the occasions when the business can instruct them for real of the above procedures.
the Board confirms that it has estate services.
not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which the Committee keeps under review the ratio of audit it regards to be significant.
fees to nonaudit fees charged by the external auditors to the Committee reviews the effectiveness of the internal ensure that their independence and objectivity is not put auditors activities.
the internal audit function is performed at risk.
the audit fee was 0.8 million compared with the by KpMG LLp.
Each year, the Committee approves the nonaudit fee for taxation advisory services of 0.4 million.
proposed internal audit programme and receives reports Deloitte LLp has provided written confirmation of their on the conclusions of these audits.
For 2011, the internal independence to the Committee.
the Committee has audit programme, has been designed in consultation with recommended that the reappointment of Deloitte LLp the Group Risk Management Committee, to improve the be proposed to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
alignment of internal audit activities with key operational and financial risks.
the Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for reviewing the internal control framework across the the Committee reviews the clarity and completeness of Group.
this review is consistent with the Code and the disclosures made in the financial statements of the covers all material areas of the business including financial, Company and considers significant accounting policies, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
any changes to them and any significant judgements the framework and internal controls system are designed and estimates.
to manage but not to eliminate the risk of failure of the During the year, the Committee also reviewed the Group to meet its business objectives and as such only arrangements put in place whereby employees may provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against raise, in confidence, any concerns which they may have material misstatement or loss.
in respect of financial reporting or other matters and the arrangements for the independent investigation of those matters.
