50 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: CORpORAtE GOvERnAnCE Governance report committeD to GooD Governance chairmans letter combineD coDe on corporate Governance 2008 throughout 2010, the Company complied with the provisions of part 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008. the boarD, balance anD inDepenDence Details of the roles and biographies of the Directors who served during the year are shown on pages 48 and 49.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises a nonExecutive Chairman, three Executive Directors and five independent nonExecutive Directors who are equally responsible for the proper stewardship and leadership of the Group.
the Board considers it is of appropriate size for the discharge of its duties.
At SEGRO we believe in the spirit of good governance, taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board embedding it across our business, rather than simply has determined that each of the nonExecutive Directors complying with the Combined Code on Corporate is independent.
the Chairman was considered independent Governance the Code.
Effective, meaningful and on appointment and continues to be independent.
relevant governance is vital for ensuring that the business procedures have been put in place for managing Directors is run successfully and strategy is delivered.
We continue conflicts of interest.
Directors are required to submit any to follow the principals set out in the Code and have potential or actual conflicts they may have with the Company, explained in this report not only our compliance with to the Board for approval.
the current Code but also the steps we have taken to comply with the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors the activities of the nomination Committee, during what proved to be a busy year, are set out below.
the Executive Directors 3 retirement of three nonExecutive Directors within 18 Non-Executive Chairman 1 months along with the retirement of the Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Directors 5 this year have given the Committee an opportunity to consider Board size, diversity and structure together with the balance of skills and experience required to take the business forward.
We have undergone a thorough search process to fill three vacancies and, with the current Finance Director being appointed as Chief Executive, we are now in the process of recruiting a new Finance Director.
the Board now has nine Directors reduced boarD activities anD attenDance from 11 in 2009.
I believe that these new appointments, at boarD meetinGs including the appointment of new Committee Chairmen All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and and Senior Independent Director, have refreshed the meetings of Board Committees of which they are members.
Board and provided opportunities for challenging debate.
In exceptional circumstances, when a Director is unable to attend, he will be provided with the papers and given an there is increasing focus on risk management in opportunity to discuss his comments with the Chairman prior the investor community.
the process to identify and to the meeting.
this ensures that his views are given due manage key risks, especially those that could impact consideration.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings on the Companys strategy, has received more Board is set out in the table on page 52. attention this year and I expect this to continue to be a high priority for us in 2011.
Board papers are generally circulated one week in advance of the meetings.
Board papers, copies of presentations Nigel Rich CBE, made during meetings and analyst reports are available to Chairman the Directors on a secure internet site.
In between meetings, the Chief Executive and the Chairman are available and regularly communicate with the Directors to update them on recent developments.
com 51 All Directors have access to the advice and services of The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring is responsible for ensuring good information flows within compliance with Board procedures.
Directors have the right the Board.
They manage the agendas to ensure that items to seek independent professional advice at the Companys reserved for consideration by the Board are discussed reasonable expense.
The Company maintains directors and and they track the progress of actions raised at previous officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for meetings.
The Chairman further ensures that there is legal action brought against its Directors.
adequate time available for the discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The table below sets Throughout the year, the Chairman met with the out details of the matters considered at Board meetings.
NonExecutive Directors, individually and collectively, to discuss business matters.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive The Board encourages the senior management team to join and the Company Secretary are always available for the meetings to present on current issues.
During 2010, these Directors to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings presentations included an update on the Slough Trading or other matters.
Estate Masterplan, progress with the Groups Sustainability Programme, a review of HR strategy, the APP joint venture Board meetings are held on a regular basis, with additional investment and the Groups Treasury Policies.
meetings being arranged when necessary.
During 2010 there were 10 scheduled meetings including a strategy day.
Board aCtivities Each meeting Annually Throughout the year Health and safety Group insurance review Regular reports from the Group Risk Management Committee on the Groups key risks Monthly reports on the financial Group pension review Approval of significant RNS position of the Group announcements, including Interim Management Statements Monthly operations report from Approval of fullyear and halfyear Presentations from Business the UK and Continental European results, including the valuation report Unit Directors businesses on letting performance, and approval of the dividend policy development and disposal opportunities and other business issues Monthly reports on the Groups Approval of the MediumTerm Plan Analyst reports and presentations Key Performance Indicators about shareholder sentiment Monthly report from the Review of significant risks Discussion and approval of Chief Executive on key strategic Group strategy issues and progress with matters considered by the Executive Committee and HR matters Offsite strategy day Progress with the Groups sustainability programme and environmental issues Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Regular reports from the Chairmen Board and its Committees of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee on the activities of these Committees Charity report Updates on changes to laws and regulations such as the Bribery Act 2010 and reports on governance issues Capital approval requests Corporate governanCe 52 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: CORpORAtE GOvERnAnCE Governance report COntInUED table of attenDance Remuneration Audit nomination name Board Committee Committee Committee nigel Rich 10 3 1 Lord Blackwell 4 2 1 2 Ian Coull 10 4 1 Stephen Howard 4 3 1 2 Andrew palmer 10 6 4 3 Chris peacock 10 8 3 3 Ins Reinmann 0 4 Mark Robertshaw 5 4 David Sleath 10 Ian Sutcliffe 10 5 Doug Webb 6 3 thom Wernink 10 4 4 total number of meetings 10 8 4 4 1.
Lord Blackwell and Stephen Howard retired from the Board on 29 April 2010.
Andrew Palmer was appointed to the Nomination and Remuneration Committees in February 2010.
Ins Reinmann resigned from the Board on 11 January 2010 and did not attend any Board meetings during the year.
Mark Robertshaw joined the Board and the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2010.
Doug Webb joined the Board and the Audit Committee on 1 May 2010. role of the boarD anD committee structure the division of responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief the Board is responsible for creating and delivering Executive are set out in writing and approved by the Board.
Individually, the Directors act the Board has appointed a Senior Independent Director in a way they consider will promote the longterm success who has a defined role.
He acts as a sounding board to the of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, with regard Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors to the interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the when necessary.
the Chairman is primarily responsible for business on the community and the environment and the the leadership and effective working of the Board.
ensures a constructive relationship exists between the Executive and the nonExecutive Directors.
Responsibility the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the for all operational matters, including the implementation Group.
the Executive Directors are directly responsible for of Group strategy, is delegated to the Chief Executive, business operations while the nonExecutive Directors are who is supported by the Executive Committee.
responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
the Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and Andy Gulliford, Managing Director, Continental Europe.
there is a Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by It has its own terms of Reference which are agreed by the the Board.
Matters requiring Board approval include: Board and meets monthly to develop strategies and policies Group strategy: for recommendation to the Board.
the Executive Committee delegates some of its responsibilities to a further six Group capital structure: Committees: Financial reporting including approval of results: Capital Approvals: Internal controls: Group Risk Management: Risk identification and management: Group treasury Risk: Corporate governance: Health and Safety: Major acquisitions and disposals: and Information Systems: and Major capital investments.
the Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities these Committees have their own separate terms of to the Audit, Remuneration and nomination Committees, Reference and at least one member of the Executive details of which are set out below.
the terms of Reference Committee is a member of each Company.
of these Committees, which are reviewed periodically by the Board, can be found in the investor section of the Companys website at www.
the Company ensures that these Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
com 53 Group boarD anD committees GROUP BOARD AUDIT NOMINATION EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION Group Group Sustainability Capital Health and Information risk treasury corporate approvals safety systems management risk responsibility evaluation boarD Development An external evaluation of the Board, its Committees and the Directors are encouraged to continually update their performance of its Directors was conducted in 2008. the professional skills and knowledge of the business.
Internal Board proposes to conduct an external review during 2011. specialists and external advisers presented to the Board during the year on a wide range of subjects including the In 2009 and 2010, the Chairman with the assistance of the outlook for the property market, the economic climate and Company Secretary, led a formal review of the effectiveness risk.
the Board met in Belgium and the netherlands, had of the Board and its Committees.
Each Director completed meetings with the local management teams and a tour of a detailed appraisal questionnaire and an analysis of the the local property portfolios.
the Board also visited the findings was presented to the Board and the Committees.
neckermann site in Germany and the Slough trading Estate there was agreement that the Board was operating and IQ Winnersh in the UK.
Further site visits are planned effectively.
the results were positive and action plans were in 2011.
In addition, site visits are arranged for individual agreed on the few points that were identified.
the table Directors throughout the year.
overleaf sets out the action points identified in the 2009 evaluation, the progress made during 2010, along with Site visits and meetings with the senior management team the action points indentified in the 2010 evaluation.
ensure that all Directors gain appropriate knowledge of the business and have access to its operations and people.
the evaluation confirmed that adequate time was allocated to discuss agenda items.
Further, that the Chairman the Directors individually attend seminars and conferences promotes a culture of openness and debate and ensures associated with their areas of expertise or responsibility.
constructive relations between the Executive and non these have included conferences on remuneration trends, Executive Directors.
risk management and the Financial Reporting Councils consultation on the Code.
Bespoke training was arranged the Senior Independent Director, with the nonExecutive for those nonExecutive Directors who assumed new roles Directors, led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Likewise, the Chairman with the nonExecutive Directors, conducted a performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive undertook reviews of the performance of the Executive Directors.
His conclusions were presented to the Chairman and the nonExecutive Directors.
corporate Governance 54 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: CORpORAtE GOvERnAnCE Governance report COntInUED boarD evaluation Evaluation 2009 Actions taken in 2010 Evaluation 2010 Regularise the process for the Board considered postinvestment Encourage the nonExecutive Directors postinvestment reviews reviews as part of its strategic discussions to meet with senior managers Spend more time with regional the Board spent time with the senior Arrange more site visits, especially management teams management teams in the netherlands, for nonExecutive Directors Germany and the UK Continue to hold an offsite this took place in november 2010 Allocate additional time to the consideration strategy day of risks associated with strategy Review the succession Succession planning for the Board Formalise the reporting on Bribery planning process has been reviewed by the nomination Act compliance Committee.
the nonExecutive Directors and the Group HR Director reviewed succession planning for senior executives during the year remuneration committee the nomination Committee reviewed the skills and the composition of the Remuneration Committee, experience of the current Directors and concluded that its activities during 2010 and the way it applied the the ability to think strategically and broad business skills principles of the Code are described in the Remuneration were required for the roles.
Recent and relevant financial Report on pages 58 to 66. experience was necessary for the appointment of the Audit Committee Chairman.
the Committee recognises the benefits of a diverse Board and Egon Zehnders remit in nomination committee the search for new nonExecutive Directors was to review the nomination Committee is chaired by nigel Rich.
candidates from a widerange of backgrounds to ensure that the other members of the nomination Committee are the best candidate would be selected.
Following an extensive Ian Coull, Andrew palmer, Chris peacock and thom Wernink.
search process, Mark Robertshaw and Doug Webb were Lord Blackwell was a member of the Committee until he appointed.
the nomination Committee considered the roles retired from the Board in April 2010. of the existing nonExecutive Directors.
Andrew palmer the nomination Committee has responsibility for making succeeded Lord Blackwell as Senior Independent Director recommendations for new appointments to the Board and for and Chris peacock replaced Stephen Howard as Chairman ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
In January 2010, following the announcement that Ins A full, formal tailored induction programme was arranged for Reinmann had resigned from the Board, it was agreed each of the new nonExecutive Directors.
the programme that the business required a Managing Director for the included site visits, meetings with the senior management Continental European business but that this would not teams within the business and the corporate centre as well be a Board level appointment.
Egon Zehnder undertook as meetings with external advisers including the internal a search and review of internal and potential external and external auditors, the brokers and the valuers.
Andy Gulliford, an internal candidate, was In October 2010, Ian Coull announced that he would appointed to this role in April 2010. be retiring from fulltime executive life during 2011. the In April 2010, both Lord Blackwell and Stephen Howard Committee appointed Egon Zehnder to assist in the process retired from the Board having both served nine years as of selecting a Chief Executive.
the process included a nonExecutive Directors.
Following a competitive tender, thorough review of internal and external candidates.
Ian the nomination Committee appointed Egon Zehnder to lead Coull did not take part in this process.
In December 2010, the process to appoint two new independent nonExecutive the Board announced that David Sleath, the current Finance Directors including a new Audit Committee Chairman to Director, would succeed Ian Coull as Chief Executive succeed Andrew palmer, who was appointed Senior following the Annual General Meeting the AGM Independent Director in May 2010. on 28 April 2011. www.
com 55 the Committee is now focusing on appointing a Finance Risks and opportunities associated with country, region and Director to succeed David Sleath.
Egon Zehnder has overall Group business objectives are reviewed regularly.
been retained to assist with this process.
this review begins with an assessment of over 60 risk factors.
Within each area of the business, the risks are considered As well as Board succession, the Committee also considered in terms of impact and likelihood, taking into account the succession planning and talent management for the unmitigated risk assuming controls fail and residual risk Companys senior executives below Board level.
the with controls operating normally.
Identifying these two risk Committee recognises that the senior management team measures allows the Group Risk Management Committee have diverse skills and experience, which is essential for good to monitor the most important controls and prioritise risk leadership.
Approximately half of the senior management management activities.
the most significant risks are detailed in a risk matrix with identified managers assigned to develop action re-election of Directors plans intended to manage or mitigate individual risks In accordance with the Articles of Association, onethird of to an agreed position.
Between the sixmonthly reviews, the Directors are required to retire by rotation at each AGM, new and emerging risks are considered at the Group together with the Directors appointed by the Board since Risk Management Committee meetings.
In addition, the the last AGM.
the appointment and replacement of the Executive Committee regularly reviews emerging risks Directors is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM and considers actions to mitigate them as they arise.
and is in accordance with the Code, the Companies Act and other prevailing legislation.
this risk management reporting structure assists Board members in making informed judgements when taking the Directors retiring by rotation at the 2011 AGM and strategic decisions.
Risk management will continue to be offering themselves for reelection are nigel Rich, Andrew an important priority for the Board in 2011. the principal palmer and Chris peacock.
Mark Robertshaw and Doug Webb risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on will also be retiring as they have been appointed since the last pages 44 to 47.
the nomination Committee has confirmed that the Directors subject to reelection continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
relations with shareholDers the Board is accountable to shareholders for the continued the nomination Committee did consider the provision in success of the Company.
the Chief Executive and Finance the UK Corporate Governance Code for all Directors to be Director are the Companys principal spokesmen with subject to annual reelection by shareholders.
It concluded investors, fund managers, analysts, the press and other that for all Directors to retire at the 2011 AGM would be interested parties.
the Board is committed to providing unnecessarily destabilising for the Company at a time of investors with regular announcements of significant events considerable Board change.
affecting the Group and frequent updates on current trading.
During the year investor tours were arranged in Continental risk manaGement Europe and the UK.
In June 2010, a Head of Investor the Board recognises that there are significant risks which Relations was appointed to assist in providing daytoday can affect the strategy of the Company and it has overall contact with investors.
responsibility for Group risk management.
the Board reviews the Company holds roadshows in London, Edinburgh and these risks twice a year and a risk matrix is created which Amsterdam, following both its halfyear and final results to details not only these significant risks but also operational meet both existing and potential investors.
Other roadshows and other risks that could affect the business.
the Board are held periodically throughout the year.
In addition, delegates the assurance of the risk management process the Chief Executive and Finance Director attend investor and review of controls to the Audit Committee.
conferences to present, participate in panel discussions and meet investors.
In 2010, the Chief Executive and or Finance the Group Risk Management Committee implements the Director attended nine conferences in the USA, UK, Japan Group risk management policy and oversees the process for and the netherlands.
the identification and management of risk.
the Group Risk Management Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available and attended by the Executive Directors and senior to shareholders, should they have concerns where contact managers who have functional responsibility for managing through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is otherwise risk.
the Group Risk Management Committee reports to the inappropriate.
In March 2010, the Chairman wrote to a Audit Committee on the processes for monitoring risks and number of major shareholders and offered a meeting with to the Board on the most significant risks and actions being himself and the Senior Independent Director.
All Directors taken to mitigate them.
are available for meetings with shareholders if requested.
