Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:16 Page 55 The composition of the Board does not Compliance with the Combined Code Board composition on Corporate Governance comply with the Combined Codes At the beginning of the year, the Board recommendations on the balance of The Board of Shaftesbury PLC strives comprised the non-executive Chairman, executive and non-executive directors to achieve high standards of corporate four executive Directors and three considered by the Combined Code to non-executive Directors, two of whom governance in pursuing the Groups be independent.
However, the Board strategy to invest in the West End of were deemed to be independent in considers its composition, in view of the accordance with the criteria set out in London.
nature and investment focus of the the Combined Code.
Groups activities, is appropriate for its The Company applied the principles of business.
The Nomination Committee Section 1 of the Combined Code on In February 2010, two independent keeps the composition of the Board non-executive Directors were appointed Corporate Governance during the year.
under review as set out in its report on The Boards application of the principles to the Board so that, from then until page 63.
30 September 2010, the Board comprised and compliance with the provisions of the Code are set out below.
As described the non-executive Chairman, four executive The Board has a Senior Independent Directors and five non-executive Directors, below, the Board did not comply with Director who is available to shareholders the provision that at least half the board four of whom are deemed to be if required.
He is also a nominated independent.
John Manser was considered should comprise independent noncontact for employees under the Groups executive Directors and did not comply independent at the date of his whistle blowing policy.
Gordon McQueen appointment as Chairman in October with the provisions regarding the was appointed to this role with effect number of independent non-executive 2004 but for the purposes of the from 1 October 2009.
Combined Code and the balance of nonDirectors on the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The composition of the executive and executive Directors on the Re-election of Directors Board, he is not included within the total Board continues not to comply with this The Board has adopted the provisions of provision, but the composition of the of independent non-executive Directors.
the new UK Corporate Governance Audit and Remuneration Committees As noted in the 2009 Annual Report, Code, which for the Company, came into has been compliant since 12 February John Emly, ceased to meet the criteria of effect on 1 October 2010.
In accordance 2010 and 1 October 2010 respectively.
independence under the Combined Code with the provisions of this Code, the when he completed nine years service entire Board will stand for re-election Role of the Board as a non-executive Director on 16 annually with effect from the 2011 The Board is responsible to shareholders October 2009.
His period in office was Annual General Meeting.
for the strategic direction of the Group the sole basis on which he was no and the stewardship of its activities.
The Biographies of each member of the longer considered independent.
In view individual roles of Chairman and Chief Board including other non-executive of his wide ranging skills and experience Executive are split.
The Chairman is directorships are set out on the inside and the desire to maintain continuity in responsible for the leadership of the back cover.
None of the executive its membership, the Board recommended Board, ensuring its effectiveness and Directors has held any non-executive his re-election at the 2010 Annual General setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive directorship or the chairmanship of a Meeting.
For these same reasons, the has responsibility for the management FTSE 100 company during the year.
Board recommends his re-election at the of the Groups day-to-day operations.
A formal statement of the division Board meetings of responsibilities has been adopted As a result of John Emlys membership of The Board met five times during the year by the Board.
the Board and the Audit and Remuneration ended 30 September 2010.
Its function Committees during the year, and with is to formulate strategy and monitor There is a formal schedule of matters the appointment of two independent and control operating and financial reserved for the Board for decision non-executive Directors in February performance.
This is achieved through which was updated during the year 2010: the regular review of operations and and is available on the Groups website.
detailed reports on activity within the The matters include approval of all Since 16 October 2009, the Boards Groups property portfolio, quarterly acquisitions, disposals, major contracts, composition has not complied with financial reporting and forecasts, and risk management and other strategic the Combined Codes provision that at regular reviews of risks and internal decisions.
least half the Board should comprise controls.
independent non-executive Directors: In addition to Board meetings, there is The Remuneration Committee, which frequent and regular communication was chaired throughout the year between executive and non-executive ended 30 September 2010 by John Directors to ensure that the nonEmly, did not meet the Combined executive Directors are fully aware of all Codes requirement that the Committee aspects of the Groups operations.
The should comprise at least three non-executive Directors met twice during independent non-executive Directors the year without executive Directors or between 16 October 2009 and 30 the Company Secretary present.
September 2010: and The Audit Committee did not meet the Combined Codes requirement that the Committee should comprise at least three independent non-executive Directors in the period 16 October 2009 to 12 February 2010.
55 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate governance corporate governance Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:16 Page 56 Attendance at meetings Board Committees The Board has three committees: Audit, Directors attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings convened in the year ended 30 September 2010 is set out below: Remuneration and Nomination.
The terms of reference of these Committees, which Audit Remuneration Nomination are available on the Groups website, Board Committee Committee Committee AGM have all been updated to take account of the provisions of the UK Corporate Number of meetings Governance Code which came into held in the year 53321 effect for the Company on 1 October Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended 2010.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the Committees and Executive Directors the minutes are circulated to all Directors.
J S Lane 5 - - - 1 Separate reports from the Committees B Bickell 5 - - - 1 are set out on pages 58 to 64.
S J Quayle 5 - - - 1 T J C Welton 5 - - - 1 Directors skills and knowledge The Chairman is responsible for ensuring Non-Executive Directors all Directors continually update their skills P J Manser 5 - - 2 1 and knowledge required to fulfil their J R K Emly 5 1 1 3 2 1 roles on the Board and the Boards J C Little 2 3 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 0 Committees.
All Directors are encouraged W G McQueen 53321 to meet the training requirements of their professional bodies to ensure that their O J D Marriott 53321 skills are updated and refreshed.
The H S Riva 4 4 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 Board receives regular technical updates The numbers in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which a Director could have on regulatory, accounting and legal attended during the year.
Hilary Riva was appointed to the Board on 12 February 2010 and Jill Little was matters.
The Chairman reviews each appointed to the Board on 24 February 2010.
John Emly resigned from the Audit and Remuneration Directors training and development Committees on 12 February 2010 and 30 September 2010 respectively.
needs as part of the process of the Board The meetings recorded above were the scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
Additional ad hoc meetings were held between the main meetings to deal with routine and operational matters as required and are not included in the meetings Following their appointment to the reported above.
Board, Hilary Riva and Jill Little received a comprehensive induction to the Board performance present at the Annual General Meeting Company, led by the Chairman and coto deal with any matters raised by ordinated and administered by the The Board carries out an annual review shareholders and all other Directors are Company Secretary.
This introduced of its performance and effectiveness.
them to all aspects of the Company and review was undertaken internally and their role as Directors of a publicly listed addresses the composition and functioning The Chief Executive and Finance company, following the guidelines of the Board and each of its Committees.
Director meet investors regularly during issued by the Institute of Chartered There is an assessment of each Director the year to discuss strategic and other Secretaries and Administrators.
and the Chairman by their peers.
The issues within the constraints imposed Chairman conducted interviews with by the Disclosure Rules and Transparency All Directors have access to the each of the executive Directors as part of Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company Secretary, who is responsible the process.
The non-executive Directors, meetings usually include visits to parts for ensuring that Board procedure, of the Groups portfolio.
On the led by the Senior Independent Director, corporate governance, statutory and were responsible for the performance announcement of the Groups annual compliance obligations are met and that and half year results, the Chief Executive evaluation of the Chairman, taking into Board discussions and decisions are account the views of the executive and Finance Director make presentations appropriately recorded.
Directors may to institutional investors and analysts Directors.
seek independent professional advice at and hold a series of one to one briefings The results of the review were considered the Groups expense in furtherance of with key shareholders.
Non-executive by the Nomination Committee and their duties as Directors.
Directors, including the Senior reported to the Board.
The review carried Independent Director, also attend a out in 2010 did not reveal any aspects of number of these presentations and performance or effectiveness of the briefings.
The presentations of the annual Board or its Committees which were and half year results are made available considered to be unsatisfactory.
on the Groups website in the Investor Relations section.
The Board receives Relations with shareholders regular reports on shareholder meetings.
The Companys relationship with its The Senior Independent Director is shareholders is extremely important.
available to shareholders as an alternative The Board encourages dialogue with all channel of communication with the shareholders at the Annual General Board and all non-executive Directors Meeting and throughout the year.
The are available to shareholders.
Chairman and Committee Chairmen are 56 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate governance Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:17 Page 57 Going concern Internal control and risk The key elements of the Groups management procedures procedures and internal financial control The Groups business activities, together framework, which are monitored throughout with the factors affecting performance, The Directors are responsible for the the year, are: Groups systems of internal controls and position and future development are set out in the Business Review on pages 13 risk management and for reviewing their a The close involvement of the effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to 35.
The financial position of the Group executive Directors in all aspects of including cash flow, liquidity and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks day-to-day operations, including regular faced by the business and can provide borrowing facilities is set out on pages 32 meetings with senior staff to review to 34. only reasonable and not absolute all operational aspects of the business: assurance against material misstatement b Clearly defined responsibilities and The Directors have a reasonable or loss.
The controls and their adequacy limits of authority.
The Board has expectation that the Group has adequate and effectiveness are monitored through responsibility for strategy and has resources to continue in operational the risk management and audit processes adopted a schedule of matters which existence for the foreseeable future.
by both the financial and estate are required to be brought to it Therefore, they continue to adopt the management audits and reported to the for decision including acquisitions, going concern basis in preparing the Board.
disposals, major contracts and major financial statements.
Executive Directors and staff meet refurbishment proposals which require On behalf of the Board the approval of the Board: regularly to review the risks facing the business, the controls established to John Manser c A comprehensive system of financial minimise those risks and their Chairman reporting and forecasting.
The aim of accounts are prepared quarterly and 30 November 2010 these reviews is to provide reasonable submitted to the Board.
Profit and assurance that material risks and cash flow forecasts, and forecasts of problems are identified and appropriate bank facility covenant compliance action taken at an early stage including are prepared at least quarterly, insurance being in place where approved by the Board and used to appropriate.
Reports on this review monitor actual performance: process are submitted during the year to the Audit Committee and the Board to d The Finance Director has overall enable them to assess the effectiveness responsibility for the preparation of of the process and ensure that the Group the financial information which is complies with the Turnbull Guidance submitted to the Audit Committee on Internal Control.
The Audit Committee Committee questions management on ensures that the internal controls in risk identification and management the financial reporting process are in before reporting to the Board.
place and adequate: The principal risks and uncertainties e The day to day estate management of identified in this review and how they are the Groups portfolio is outsourced to managed or mitigated are summarised in three firms of managing agents.
The the Business Review on pages 34 to 35.
Groups staff monitor their activities and have established extensive The Board confirms that procedures financial and operational controls to to identify, evaluate and manage the ensure the managing agents maintain significant risks faced by the Group have an acceptable level of service.
The been in place throughout the year under Group also uses the services of review and up to the date of approval of an external consultant to review this Annual Report.
periodically the operational processes and controls of each of the managing agents: and f A comprehensive manual recording the key business processes and related controls across the whole of the Groups business which is regularly updated and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
In view of the Groups controls structure summarised above, and on advice from the Audit Committee, the Board has resolved that at the present time there is no need to establish an internal audit function.
57 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate governance
