Shaftes 10 AW Reports Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:17 Page 64 Tenure of auditors and tender for Gordon McQueen The need to establish an internal audit Chairman of the Committee function: audit services Developments in accounting and  LLP or its John Emly resigned 12 February 2010 reporting requirements: predecessor firms has been the Companys auditor since it listed on the Jill Little The Committees effectiveness: London Stock Exchange in October appointed 24 February 2010 The performance of the external 1987.
Senior Statutory Auditors are Oliver Marriott auditors: only permitted to serve for five years.
In appointed 12 October 2009 Independence of the auditors.
The view of the impending rotation of the Hilary Riva auditors provide annually a letter Senior Statutory Auditor, the Committee to the Committee confirming their appointed 12 February 2010 considered it an appropriate time independence and stating the methods to tender the provision of the Groups As explained on page 55 in the Corporate they employ to safeguard their audit services for the forthcoming Governance Report, the Committee did independence: financial year.
not comply with the provisions of the Non-audit assignments awarded to the Combined Code relating to its The audit tender process involved the external auditors: and composition until 12 February 2010.
The comparison of  A competitive tender for the provision of Committee is now comprised solely of LLP against the audit approach and audit services for the Group concluding independent non-executive Directors.
service proposed by three other leading in October 2010 in a recommendation to Gordon McQueen is a Member of the audit firms.
This process included the Board that shareholders be asked to Institute of Chartered Accountants of a detailed explanation of the Groups reappoint  LLP Scotland, a Fellow of the Chartered business to each of the three firms at the Annual General Meeting.
Institute of Bankers in Scotland and is and an interrogation by the the member of the Committee with As part of the monitoring of the Committee of the proposals they and preparation of the annual and half year recent and relevant financial experience.
 LLP each put financial information, the Audit Committee forward for the conduct of the Groups The Committee met three times during meets with the Groups external valuers audit should they be appointed or the year ended 30 September 2010 to to discuss the process of the annual and reappointed as the Groups auditors, and monitor the framework of financial half year valuation.
the fees they envisaged charging.
controls, review published financial Having completed an evaluation of Award of non-audit assignments to information, monitor developments in each firms proposal, the Committee financial reporting and review the the external audit firm resolved to recommend to the Board framework and effectiveness of risk that  LLP be The policy of the Committee is that nonmanagement and controls across the proposed to shareholders for reaudit assignments will not be awarded Groups business.
In addition, it advises appointment as the Groups auditors.
to the external audit firm where there is the Board on the appointment of external a risk of a conflict arising with their auditors and their remuneration for both As the current Senior Statutory Auditor audit independence and objectivity.
The audit and non-audit work.
The Finance from has been in place for five years, he award of all non-audit assignments to Director and representatives of the will be replaced for the Group audit for the external audit firm in excess of Groups auditors have been invited to the year ending 30 September 2011.
25,000 is subject to the prior approval attend each meeting.
The Committee of the Committee.
considers some items of business without Auditor confirmation executives or the auditors present as Audit fees  LLP have appropriate.
confirmed to the Committee: The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low due During the year, the Committee has That they have internal procedures in primarily to the simple corporate reviewed and where appropriate place to identify any aspects of nonstructure of the Group.
Audit fees for the recommended: audit work which could compromise year totalled 119,000 2009: 110,000. their role as auditors and to ensure the During the year, the external auditors, Published annual and half year financial objectivity of their audit report:  LLP undertook information including consideration of non-audit work for the Group totalling That the total fees paid by the Group the appropriateness of accounting during the year do not represent a 168,000 2009: 656,000.
Of this amount, policies and material assumptions and 63,000 2009: 42,000 related to taxation material part of their firms fee income: estimates adopted by management: and compliance and associated matters, Interim Management Statements: 19,000 2009: 36,000 related to the That they consider that they have Managements reports to the Board on review of the half year financial statements maintained their audit independence risk and internal controls and the and 86,000 2009: 113,000 related to throughout the year.
Groups public statements on these other services.
Note 7 to the financial matters: statements sets out the fees paid to the On behalf of the Board Groups auditors.
The documentation of the key Gordon McQueen business processes and related controls Audit Committee Chairman Non-audit fees payable to the external across the whole of the Groups 30 November 2010 audit firm have reverted to more normal business: levels this year following higher levels The Groups whistleblowing policy: seen in recent years which resulted from particular corporate transactions.
64 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 audit committee report audit committee report
