40 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance: Board of Directors BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1.
Shaun Parker Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer Nomination Committee and Member of the As Chief Executive officer of the Group, Eric Shaun Parker is responsible for the Groups Remuneration and Audit & Risk Committees Woolley is responsible for developing and Finance, Tax, Treasury, Risk and Audit functions.
Charles Gregson was appointed Non-Executive executing the Groups business strategy across Shaun joined the Group in 2003 from Diageo where Chairman of CPP in January 2010.
He has also been Europe, North America and Asia.
The Groups he was Chief Financial officer of Guinness North Non-Executive Chairman of ICAP plc since 2001 legal and compliance functions also report to Eric.
America prior to leading the cross-functional team and had been Executive Chairman since 1998.
Eric joined the Group in 2003 from an oil services that completed the integration of the acquired Between 1978 and 1998 he was responsible for company, Expro International Group Plc, where he Seagram Wines and Spirits business.
Previously the Garban businesses that demerged from was Group Finance Director.
Prior to this, Eric was Shaun worked for ICI Plc, and then Mars Inc. United Business Media in 1998 and merged with Group Finance Director of Vp Plc.
Before working Pedigree Petfoods where he held a number Intercapital in 1999 to become ICAP.
He was a in industry, Eric spent several years with Credit of senior finance roles in Germany and the UK.
Director of United Business Media plc and its Suisse First Boston where he was Vice President Shaun has extensive international experience predecessor companies from 1986 until 2007.
gained through a number of regional roles, and He is currently a Non-Executive Director of through working and living in Germany and the US.
International Personal Finance plc, Caledonia Investments plc and St Jamess Place plc.
Hamish Macgregor Ogston, CBE Founder and Non-Executive Director Hamish Ogston founded the Group in 1980, before becoming Non-Executive Chairman in 1999.
He acted in that capacity until Charles Gregsons appointment in January 2010.
Hamish continues to contribute to the Groups strategic thinking as a Non-Executive Director and acts in an ambassadorial role helping to introduce CPP to industry organisations and other inuential stakeholders.
He was awarded a CBE in the 2011 New Year Honours for his services to business and to the community in York.
