Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Directors report Statement of Directors responsibilities Corporate Governance statement Remuneration report Other activities The Nomination Committees principal function is to carry out a formal During the relevant period other significant activities addressed by the Audit selection process for Executive and Non-Executive Directors and and Risk Committee were as follows: subsequently to propose to the Board any new appointments this includes recommending Directors appointed during the year for election by The review of regular reports from the Head of Compliance: and shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
The review of the Audit and Risk Committees own terms of reference: Ultimate responsibility for the appointment of Directors resides with the Board.
Regular updates are provided to the Audit and Risk Committee on developments in financial reporting, risk management and related legal and The Nomination Committee oversees succession planning for Directors and corporate governance matters.
senior managers below Board level.
A formalised whistle-blowing policy and procedure for staff to raise issues The Chairman of the Nomination Committee reports to the Board on the regarding possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other outcome of meetings.
matters has been established and was reviewed during the year.
The Audit During the relevant period the Nomination Committee met three times.
and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the The Nomination Committee engaged the services of professional advisers, Groups whistle-blowing procedures and any notifications made.
The Audit particularly in relation to the appointment of the three new Non-Executive and Risk Committee is charged with ensuring that appropriate arrangements Directors: Patrick fide Smedt, Les Owen and Duncan McIntyre.
are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence and performing suitable subsequent follow-up action.
During the relevant period the Nomination Committee considered the An alternative reporting channel also exists whereby perceived wrongdoing following principle items: may be reported via telephone to an external third party.
No whistle-blowing A review of the current structure, size and composition of the Board: incidents were recorded.
The time commitment expected of Non-Executive Directors: The Audit and Risk Committee has access to the services of the Risk and Internal Audit and Company Secretarial departments and is authorised to Leadership and succession planning: obtain independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
The proposed election of Directors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: and Auditors independence and objectivity The external Auditor provides some non-audit services, primarily in the The appointment of three new Non-Executive Directors.
provision of taxation and regulatory advice and in relation to corporate transactions that may arise from time to time.
In order to ensure that Auditor Report of the Remuneration Committee objectivity and independence are safeguarded the following controls have The full details of the composition and work of the Remuneration Committee been implemented: are provided in the Remuneration Report set out on pages 53 to 58.
A formal policy on the use of the Auditor for non-audit work has been Internal control agreed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
In summary, this ensures that The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control work would usually only be awarded when, by virtue of the Auditors and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The Audit and Risk Committee has knowledge, skills or experience, the Auditor is clearly to be preferred been in operation throughout the relevant period and oversees the Groups over alternative suppliers: system of internal control.
Material risk or control matters together with the The Audit and Risk Committee receives and reviews each year an analysis appropriate remedial action are reported by the Audit and Risk Committee of all non-audit work awarded to the Auditor over the financial period: and to the Board.
The Board monitors the ongoing process by which critical risks to the business are identified, evaluated and managed.
This process is The Audit and Risk Committee receives each year a report from the consistent with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control and the revised external Auditor as to any matters that the Auditor considers bear on guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005, and its independence and which need to be disclosed to the Audit and has been in place for the relevant period under review and up to the date of Risk Committee.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal control include regular meetings of the Risk Management Nomination Committee Group an executive management forum and of subsidiary company boards Membership and meetings together with annual budgeting, monthly financial and operational reporting Set out below is the current membership of the Nomination Committee: for all businesses within the Group.
Compliance is monitored by management, the Groups compliance departments, Internal Audit and, to the extent it Charles Gregson Nomination Committee Chairman : considers necessary to support its audit report, the external Auditor.
Peter Morgan: The Board assesses the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Patrick fide Smedt: and control including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems on the basis of: Les Owen established procedures, including those already described, which are in Members of the Nomination Committee from the date of Admission were place to manage perceived risks: Charles Gregson Chairman, Tim Kelly and Peter Morgan who served on the Nomination Committee throughout the relevant period.
reports by management to the Audit and Risk Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group system of internal control and significant Patrick fide Smedt was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 19 August control issues: 2010 and Les Owen was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 21 September 2010. under the direction of the Risk Management Group the continuous Group-wide process for formally identifying, evaluating and managing Role of the Nomination Committee the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives: and A full copy of the terms of reference for the Nomination Committee can be obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on the results of internal audit www.
reviews and work undertaken by other departments.
