50 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance statement continued Audit and Risk Committee Internal control and risk management Membership and meetings The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the Groups internal control and Set out below is the current membership of the Audit and Risk Committee: risk management systems and has received presentations from senior management, on the major risks faced by the Group and the procedures Peter Morgan Audit and Risk Committee Chairman : established to identify, assess, manage, monitor and report on these risks.
Charles Gregson: and During the period the Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed and updated Les Owen the Groups Risk Strategy and Risk Appetite statements, to reflect the current operating environment of the Group.
From the date of Admission, the members of the Audit and Risk Committee were Peter Morgan Audit and Risk Committee Chairman, Charles Gregson External Auditor and Tim Kelly, each served on the Audit and Risk Committee throughout the The Audit and Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing the reporting period.
relationship with the external Auditor and approves the external Auditors Les Owen was appointed as a member of the Audit and Risk Committee on engagement letter, audit fee and audit and client services plan including the 21 September 2010 and will take over chairing the Audit and Risk Committee planned levels of materiality.
The external Auditor attends the Audit and Risk when Peter Morgan retires on 31 March 2011.
Committee meetings as appropriate and meets at least annually with the Audit and Risk Committee without executive management.
The Chairman of Tim Kelly resigned from the Audit and Risk Committee on 31 December 2010. the Audit and Risk Committee also meets privately with the external Auditor.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit and Risk Committee.
During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee received regular detailed Other individuals attend at the request of the Audit and Risk Committee reports from the external Auditor including a formal written report dealing Chairman and during the year the external Auditor, senior management, with the audit objectives: the Auditors qualifications, expertise and resources: Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Risk and Audit and effectiveness of the audit process: procedures and policies for maintaining Head of Compliance would usually attend meetings to report to the Audit and independence: and compliance with the ethical standards issued by the Risk Committee and provide clarification and explanations where appropriate.
The external Auditors management letter is The Audit and Risk Committee also meets with the external Auditor without reviewed, as is managements response to issues raised.
The Audit and Risk executive management present on a regular basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the latest ethical guidance regarding rotation of audit Committee met on five occasions during the relevant period and details of partners.
Non-audit services provided by the external auditors are regularly attendance at Audit and Risk Committee meetings are set out in the table monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee.
under the heading Directors attendance at Board and committee meetings.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied with the performance of the The Board is satisfied that Peter Morgan has recent and relevant financial external Auditor during the relevant period and the policies and procedures experience, as referred to in the Smith Report.
in place to maintain their objectivity and independence.
In the interest of Role of the Audit and Risk Committee maintaining continuity through the IPO, the lead external audit partner, A full copy of the terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee can be Stephen Williams has been in place longer than five years but less than obtained by request to the Company Secretary or via the Groups website at seven.
The Audit and Risk Committee has recommended that Deloitte be www.
re-appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The role of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Board in discharging Internal Audit its duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, corporate governance and The Audit and Risk Committee approves the annual audit plan and internal internal control.
The Audit and Risk Committee is also primarily responsible audit methodology for the Risk and Internal Audit department and monitors for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, progress against the plan during the year.
During the year, 21 audit reports re-appointment and removal of the external Auditor and to approve the identifying some 100 important recommended actions in respect of the Auditors remuneration and terms of engagement.
The Audit and Risk Groups system of internal control were considered by the Audit and Risk Committees duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the Committee members.
No fundamental material weaknesses were raised.
audit work, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the Progress against actions identified in these reports and the external Auditors Auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee also monitors the volume and nature management letter are monitored by the Audit and Risk Committee at of non-audit services provided by the Auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee quarterly intervals.
is also responsible for monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit and risk function and the capital adequacy requirements of the The Risk and Internal Audit team is led by a Chartered Accountant with more Groups relevant subsidiaries on an ongoing basis.
than 20 years audit experience in the financial services sector.
The team comprises a total of four auditors whose tenure in the Group varies up to During the relevant period the Audit and Risk Committee discharged its 10 years.
The Audit and Risk Committee has approved the departments responsibilities by performing the following activities: terms of reference and has established procedures to monitor and review the departments effectiveness including feedback from the external Auditor Financial statements and senior management.
The Audit and Risk Committee has assessed the During the relevant period and up to the date of this report, the Audit and resources the department has to complete its remit and have approved the Risk Committee reviewed and discussed the financial disclosures made in use of external consultants to supplement work, particularly in areas requiring the annual results announcement, Annual Report and Accounts, Half-yearly specialist skills, e. g. Information Technology.
The appointment and removal financial report, interim management statements and the other trading of the Head of Risk and Audit is the responsibility of the Audit and Risk statements made by the Group together with any related management Committee.
The Risk and Internal Audit department continues to have letters, letters of representation and reports from the external auditors.
unrestricted access to all Group documentation, premises, functions and Significant financial reporting issues and judgments were considered together employees as required to enable it to perform its functions.
The Head of Risk with any significant accounting policies and changes proposed to them.
and Audit has direct access to the Board and Audit and Risk Committee Chairman and is accountable to the Audit and Risk Committee, meeting regularly with the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman without executive management.
