52 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance statement continued The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than Compliance with the Combined Code eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives and can only provide The Directors consider that the Company has been in full compliance with reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the provisions set out in the Code throughout the period from Admission to In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board considers the 31 December 2010 except as described below: materiality of financial and non-financial risks and the relationship between the A.
1.2 Due to the infancy of the Board, a decision as to who should take up cost of and benefit from the system of internal control.
the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director has not yet been made The Board regularly reviews the actual and forecast performance of the by the Board.
The Board expects to fill this role in 2011. business compared with the annual plan, as well as other key performance A.
6.1 Due to the infancy of the Board, a formal process for performance indicators.
evaluation has not yet been established.
The Board intends to introduce a Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly defined.
Board effectiveness process to comply with the requirements of the new The Groups policies and procedures are regularly updated and distributed UK Corporate Governance Code in 2011. throughout the Group.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives reports on D. 1.1 Under normal circumstances the Chief Executive Officer and the a regular basis on compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Chief Financial Officer lead the discussions with major shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee confirms that through However, in future the Board intends for the Chairman to lead discussions discharging its responsibilities under its terms of reference as described on with major shareholders in addition to the Chief Executive Officer and the page 50, it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Chief Financial Officer.
controls and is able to confirm that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any identified failings or weaknesses.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its Homecare Insurance Limited and Card Protection Plan Limited insurance future development, performance and position are set out in pages 12 to 15 and insurance intermediary companies of the Group respectively are subject of the Strategy section and pages 26 to 39 of the Performance section of this to regulation by the Financial Services Authority and as such undertake Annual report.
a solvency capital adequacy assessment process on a regular basis.
This process is subject to review and approved by the individual boards of The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the actions taken by these companies and is reviewed by the Financial Services Authority from the Directors to address these are included on pages 45 to 46 of the time to time.
The process involves consideration of the risks that the Groups Directors report.
business faces in its operating environment, the assessment of the likelihood The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and of the risks crystallising and their potential materiality and the effectiveness of borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 36 to 39. the control framework in mitigating each risk.
Homecare Insurance Limited is In addition note 28 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, currently preparing to comply with the future requirements of the Financial policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management Services Authoritys Solvency II requirements.
objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its exposure to credit, The purpose of the process is to establish the level of capital resources that liquidity, interest rate and insurance risks.
the business should maintain, both under current market conditions and under Having taken account of these factors, the Directors have a reasonable a range of scenarios, in order to ensure that financial resources are sufficient expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational to successfully manage the effects of any risks that may crystallise.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt The Risk and Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
system of internal control is effective: is adequate to manage the Groups significant risks: safeguard the Groups assets: and, in conjunction with the Company Secretary and the Groups Legal and Compliance teams, ensure compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides independent and objective assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior management.
Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, as determined by a structured risk assessment process involving Executive Directors and senior management.
The output from the process is summarised in an annual audit plan, which is approved by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Head of Risk and Audit reports regularly to the Audit and Risk Committee and Chief Financial Officer.
The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
