Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee the Remuneration Committee comprises of Patrick Farnsworth the nomination Committee comprises martin Davey, the Chairman, John Worby and from 12 november 2009 Committees Chairman, Patrick Farnsworth, John Worby, and steven esom.
it is a requirement of the Combined Code that from 12 november 2009 steven esom.
it is a requirement the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three of the Combined Code that a majority of the members independent non-executive Directors.
the Board is confident of the nomination Committee should be independent that since 12 november 2009 the Group complies with this non-executive Directors, and the Chairman should be either requirement.
martin Davey attends meetings of the Remuneration the Chairman of the Board or a non-executive Director.
Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
no the Board is confident that it fully complies with these Director attends any part of a meeting at which his own requirements of the Combined Code.
Due to the integration remuneration is discussed.
the executive Directors determine of the Group and the stability of the Board the Chairmans the remuneration of the non-executive Directors.
time commitment to the Committee is not anticipated to be onerous.
the Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive remuneration and determines, on behalf of the the Committee meets at least once a year and reviews the Board, the other terms and conditions of service for each structure, size and composition of the Board and is responsible executive Director.
it determines appropriate performance for considering and making recommendations to the Board conditions for the annual cash bonus and long term incentive on new appointments of executive and non-executive schemes and approves awards and the issue of options in Directors.
it also gives full consideration to succession accordance with the terms of those schemes.
the Remuneration planning in the course of its work taking into account the Committee also, in consultation with the Chairman, determine challenges and opportunities facing the Group and what the total individual remuneration package of senior executives skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board and including bonuses, incentive payments and share option from senior management in the future.
the Committee, and other share awards.
the Remuneration Committee has after carrying out an external search process involving an access to advice from the Company secretary and to detailed outside agency and interviewing a number of candidates, analysis of executive remuneration in comparable companies.
recommended the appointment of steven esom as an in addition, from time to time the Committee undertakes additional independent non-executive Director.
the current a more detailed review using external consultants.
the last Directors seeking re-election at the Annual General meeting such review was undertaken by Deloitte in 2008 and it is the will be martin Davey and Bernard hoggarth.
steven esom Committees intention to conduct a review during the next who was appointed since the last Annual General meeting financial year.
Details of the Committees current remuneration will stand for election.
their biographical details on page 21 policies are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on demonstrate the range of experience and skills which each pages 35 and 40. brings to the benefit of the Company.
the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee the terms of reference for the nomination Committee are are available from the Company secretary.
available from the Company secretary.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the the Chairman of the nomination Committee will attend the Annual General meeting to respond to any shareholder questions Annual General meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
that might be raised on the Committees activities.
PAGe 33 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
