the Companys Articles of Association provide that one third the Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies of the Directors retire by rotation each year and with the and internal reports on accounting and internal financial proviso that each Director shall seek re-election at the Annual control matters together with reports from the external General meeting every three years.
All new Directors are auditors.
the Audit Committee has overall responsibility for subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related following their appointment.
announcements and for all aspects of internal control and meets at least three times a year, two of which involve a Directors biographies and membership of the various review of the Groups interim and full year financial statements.
Committees are shown on page 21. the formal terms of the Audit Committee considers annually the extent and reference for the Board Committees together with the terms effectiveness of the work of the internal audit function.
the and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for are available for inspection at the Companys Registered the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external office and at the Annual General meeting.
auditors and for reviewing their effectiveness.
the Committee puts the external audit function out to tender every four to BoARD Committees five years, the last such tender being in 2008. the external Audit Committee auditors performance is assessed each year.
the Committee the Audit Committee comprised of two independent nonalso approves the terms of engagement and remuneration executive Directors, John Worby and Patrick Farnsworth until of the external auditors, and monitors their independence.
12 november 2009 when steven esom joined the Board, there is a policy in place in relation to the types of non-audit increasing the number to three.
the Committee is chaired by services the external auditors should not carry out so as not John Worby, the Groups senior independent Director, who to compromise their independence and these would include is a chartered accountant, has considerable recent relevant internal accounting or other financial services, internal audit financial experience and has spent many years in the food services or their outsourcing, executive or management roles industry.
Patrick Farnsworth has many years experience in or functions, and remuneration consultancy.
there is also a the food sector where he was Joint managing Director of whistle blowing policy in place which includes arrangements William Jackson & son Limited until his retirement in 2005. by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about steven esom has held a number of senior positions within possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and the food industry including managing Director at Waitrose other matters.
and executive Director of Food at marks & spencer.
it is a the terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available requirement of the Combined Code that the Audit Committee from the Company secretary.
should comprise of at least three independent non-executive Directors.
the Board is confident that the Group, since the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the 12 november 2009, complies with this requirement.
Annual General meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
the Chairman, the Finance Director, who is ultimately responsible for assessing the Groups internal financial Internal Control controls, and the Group Financial Controller, together with the Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups the external auditors and, when requested, internal audit system of internal control, which safeguards the shareholders attend the meetings as appropriate.
the external auditors investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its have the opportunity to access the Committee, without effectiveness.
such a system can only provide reasonable the executive Directors being present, at any time, and the and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Committee formally meets with the external auditors at least or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the once a year on this basis.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
PAGe 30 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 the Group operates within a clearly defined organisational Internal Audit the Groups internal audit function comprises of company structure with established responsibilities, authorities and employees supported by Grant thornton, which provides reporting lines to the Board.
the organisational structure has specialist advice and resources where necessary.
internal been designed in order to plan, execute, monitor and control audit is required to report to the Audit Committee on the the Groups objectives effectively and to ensure that internal extent to which systems of internal control are effective and control becomes embedded in the operations.
to provide independent and objective assurance that the the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed on issues relating to internal controls and risk management and managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
following each Audit Committee meeting.
the Board confirms the Audit Committee reviews and approves the annual audit that the key on-going processes and features of the Groups plan and receives regular updates on progress in meeting internal risk based control system, which accord with the the plan objectives.
the internal audit approach is risk based turnbull guidance, have been fully operative throughout the and takes into account the overall Group risk framework, as year and up to the date of the Annual Report being approved.
well as risks specific to individual operations.
the plan set out these include: a process to identify, evaluate and manage at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
internal business risk as detailed in the Group operating and Financial audit findings together with responses from management Review : a strong control environment: an information and have been considered and where necessary challenged.
communication process: a monitoring system: and a regular Auditor independence Board review of effectiveness.
the Group Finance Director the Board is satisfied that ernst & Young LLP has adequate policies is ultimately responsible for overseeing the Groups internal and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and controls.
the Group meets its obligations During the year the management team identified the for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external key business risks within their operations, considered the auditors through the Audit Committee, whose terms of financial implications and assessed the effectiveness of reference include an obligation to consider and keep under the control processes in place to mitigate these risks.
the review the degree of work undertaken by the external auditor, Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along other than the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity and with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, independence is safeguarded.
there is also an established investment appraisal and the budgeting process, enabled policy for the work the external auditors can and cannot do so as not to compromise their independence and in addition, the Board to report on the effectiveness of internal control.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee is consulted prior to Following its review the Board determined that it was not awarding to the external auditors any non-audit services in aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in excess of 20,000. the system of internal control.
During the year the Audit Committee considered the following Financial Reporting factors in assessing the objectivity and independence of ernst the Group prepares annual budgets that are agreed by the & Young LLP: Board.
operational management are required to report to the i the auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring Board on a monthly basis on financial performance including independence, including those to ensure that the partners trading results, balance sheet, cash flows and related key and staff have no personal or business relationships with the performance indicators.
Updated forecasts are prepared half Group, other than those in the normal course of business yearly together with information on key risk areas.
the use of permitted by UK ethical guidance.
a standard reporting pack by all Group entities ensures that the information is gathered and presented in a consistent ii the auditors policies for the rotation of the lead partner way that facilitates the preparation of the consolidated and key audit personnel.
iii Adherence by management and the auditor to the Groups policy for the procurement of non-audit services.
PAGe 31 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 PAGe 32 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
