Business KPIs Future development the Group will continue to seek to increase sales through a the Board has assessed that the following KPis are the combination of product development with existing customers most effective measures of progress towards achieving the and business gains with new ones.
the standard of the Groups Groups objectives: factories will be maintained at the highest level and further organic sales growth year on year increase in suitable acquisition opportunities will be pursued.
sales revenue excluding the impact of acquisitions and disposals ResoURCes, RisKs AnD ReLAtionshiPs Gross margin gross profit as a percentage of sales revenue Resources operating margin operating profit as a percentage the Group aims to safeguard the assets that give it competitive of sales revenue advantage, being its reputation for product innovation, Free cash flow cash generated from operations product quality, food safety and service levels: its modern less tax and interest paid well-equipped factories: its operational management and its skilled workforce.
Performance against KPIs 2010 2009 Reputation organic sales growth it is the responsibility of local operational management assisted continuing 11.2% 9.2% Gross margin continuing 13.1% 14.1% by their own product development team, Group technical operating margin and Group health & safety to maintain and where possible continuing 6.2% 6.3% enhance the Groups reputation for product innovation, Free cash flow 29.6m 41.2m product quality, food safety and service levels.
Factories the Company has seen substantial organic sales growth in the underlying business of 11.2 per cent over the past year the Group has some of the best-invested, modern facilities driven by its expertise in product development, service levels, in the industry, having invested 94 million over the past quality and value with further sales growth anticipated in five years, and it intends to continue investing to ensure that the next twelve months.
CCF norfolk contributed a further it maintains its competitive edge.
10.8 per cent of sales growth in the period following its Employees acquisition on 24 June 2009.
Gross margin including the the Group aims to recruit, train and retain employees who are contribution from CCF norfolk was 13.1 per cent of sales valued for their contribution and able to fulfil their potential compared to 14.1 per cent a year ago.
excluding CCF norfolk, in meeting the business objectives of their operating unit.
gross margin at 13.9 per cent was only slightly below the prior the Group companies each have their strategies for retaining year level, despite the continued raw material cost inflation staff, including the provision of competitive terms and experienced during the first half of the year as the business conditions, share options and a stimulating and challenging achieved improved operating efficiencies.
the Group has had a savings-related on the same basis at 6.7 per cent was 0.4 per cent higher.
share option scheme in place for over 10 years, which is open margins were lower in the newly acquired CCF norfolk to all employees with 2 years service and has proved very business, but this is being addressed through a combination of successful with many staff now also shareholders.
capital investment and operational efficiency improvements.
Principal cash flows are discussed under financial position and performance, below.
PAGe 15 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
