Co R P o R At e G o v e R n A n C e stAtemen t year responsibility for the Groups day-to-day operations stAtement BY the DiReCtoRs on ComPLiAnCe With the PRovisions was delegated to the Chief executive who, supported by the oF the ComBineD CoDe executive Directors and executive management, implements Principles of good governance the Boards strategy and manages the Groups business.
Upon appointment, all Directors undertake a formal introduction the Board is committed to high standards of corporate to all the Groups activities and are also provided with the governance.
the adoption and maintenance of good opportunity for on-going training to ensure that they are governance is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
kept up-to-date on changes in relevant legislation and the this report, together with the Directors Remuneration general business environment, including the review of relevant Report on pages 35 to 40, describes how the Board applies literature and attending external courses.
Procedures are the principles of good governance and best practice as set in place for Directors to seek both independent advice, at out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the the expense of the Company, and the advice and services Combined Code which can be found on the Financial of the Company secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
the Reporting Councils website www.
A statement Company secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring of compliance with the Combined Code can be found at that Board procedures are complied with and for advising the end of this report.
the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The Board the appointment and removal of the Company secretary is During the year ended 31 march 2010, the Board consisted determined by the Board as a whole.
of an executive Chairman, a Chief executive and up to the Board has completed a register relating to potential 24 April 2009 a Chief executive of the pet division, two conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no other executive Directors and two non-executive Directors such conflicts exist.
this register will be reviewed annually until 12 november 2009 after which there were three.
All the or at such other time as is deemed necessary.
non-executive Directors are deemed to be independent.
the Combined Code states that at least half the board, excluding the Board, led by the Chairman, has carried out a formal the chairman, should comprise non-executive Directors evaluation of its performance and that of its Committees determined by the Board to be independent.
the Board is under a system based on a questionnaire circulated to all confident that since 12 november 2009 it has complied with Directors which was used to facilitate a Board discussion.
the this requirement of the Combined Code.
evaluation exercise showed that the Board and its Committees were working well but, as expected, a number of actions the Board meets each month to direct and control the overall were agreed to improve effectiveness.
the Chairman has strategy and operating performance of the Group.
to enable evaluated the performance of individual Directors through them to carry out these responsibilities all Directors have one-to-one meetings.
the Chairman meets with the nonfull and timely access to all relevant information.
A formal executive Directors at least once a year to share his assessment schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board covers key areas of the Groups affairs including acquisition of executive Board member performance.
in addition, the non-executive Directors, led by the senior independent and divestment policy, approval of budgets, major capital expenditure projects, profit and cash flow performance and Director, meet, without the Chairman present, in order to general treasury and risk management policies.
During the appraise his performance.
PAGe 29 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
