Directors report | Governance Corporate governance At the date of this report, the Company is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC which is publicly available at www.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the Code where practicable.
This report, together with the directors remuneration report, set out on pages 28 to 39, describes how the relevant principles of governance set out in the Code are applied to the Company.
In May 2010, the FRC published a new code, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code which will replace the Code for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The Company has already adopted principles from the Governance Code and will modify its practices where appropriate.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates that the Company has complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout 2010.
The Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk.
It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and this is posted on the Companys website www.
The Board comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the President of Croda Europe and four independent non-executive directors, who have a range of business, financial and international skills and experience.
This provides an appropriate balance within the Board.
Biographical notes appear on pages 21 and 22.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the non-executive directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law.
In addition the Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience, qualifications and skills.
In order to build and increase the non-executive directors familiarity with, and understanding of, the Groups people and businesses and the markets in which it operates, presentations from senior managers are made at Board meetings on a regular basis.
The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating site.
This year the Board held one meeting at Leek in the UK and also one in France during a visit to our manufacturing site at Chocques and the headquarters of Sederma.
These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the operations at first hand, as well as providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into the business.
Non-executive directors also undertake site visits on an individual basis.
Attendance at meetings Details of the attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit are set out below: Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended M C Flower 8 8 4 4 3 3 - 3 M C Buzzacott 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 3 S Musesengwa 8 7 4 3 3 3 3 3 P N N Turner 8 8 4 4 3 3 3 3 S G Williams appointed 1 July 2010 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 M Humphrey 8 8 4 4 - 3 - 3 M S Christie 8 8 - - - - - 3 S E Foots appointed 1 July 2010 4 4 - - - - - 2 Attended by invitation In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Groups strategy.
They also met with the Companys financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts on the Groups 2009 annual results.
23 Corporate governance Corporate governance Re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years and for newly appointed directors to offer themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after the date of their appointment.
Ordinarily this means that, at this years AGM, Mike Buzzacott and Stanley Musesengwa would be standing for re-election and Steve Williams and Steve Foots would be standing for election for the first time following their appointments on 1 July 2010.
However, the Board has taken note of the new provision in the Governance Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election and so all the directors will be standing for election.
Following individual performance assessments, the Board is satisfied that each director continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Further details about the directors are given in the notice of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report.
Conflicts of interest The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Association of the Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation.
No conflicts were identified or authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are five such directors, including the Chairman and the senior independent director, Mike Buzzacott, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular business presentations and by site visits.
The independence of the non-executive directors is kept under review.
The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent.
In relation to the other non-executive directors, Nigel Turner and Mike Buzzacott both serve as non-executive directors of Genus Plc, a company which has no other connection with Crodas business, and Steve Williams retains a consultancy role with Unilever plc, a customer of the Company.
The Board does not consider that these roles would affect their judgement in relation to Croda and its business and therefore, it is the Boards opinion that all the non-executive directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
During 2010 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 21 and 22.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website www.
Report of the Audit Committee Mike Buzzacott Chairman Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year to coincide with key dates in the Companys financial reporting cycle.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members has the recent and relevant financial and accounting experience to enable them to contribute to the Committees work.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the President of Croda Europe, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Risk and Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external auditors, without the executives being present.
The Committees remit is to assist the Board to fulfil its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company.
This includes reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies.
In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems, including that of the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management system.
It reviews and assesses the annual internal audit plan and all reports on the Company from the internal auditors.
It also agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the audit and the interim review with the external auditors.
24 Directors report | Governance Corporate governance During the year the Committee members also: l received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee: l monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme: l reviewed the Groups disaster recovery procedure in relation to IT and a report on the audit of certain IT outsourcing arrangements by the internal auditors: and l commissioned and oversaw a tender process for the role of internal auditors leading to the appointment of new internal auditors.
Audit independence The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups external auditors,  LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
The rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds.
Part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Report of the Nomination Committee Martin Flower Chairman Mike Buzzacott Mike Humphrey Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning.
As part of its remit to keep the structure and composition of the Board under review, the Committee nominated Steve Williams and Steve Foots for appointment by the Board in 2010.
Steve Williams was recommended as a potential Board member by Spencer Stuart, an external search consultant, which maintains contact with the Company on an ad hoc basis.
Each member of the Committee and the Group Finance Director met with Mr Williams prior to making the nomination and the Committee as a whole considered that his experience and skills would be a valuable complement to those present on the Board.
In the case of Steve Foots, he was put in charge of Croda Europe, which represents the major part of the Groups business, following a reorganisation of the Groups business in 2010.
His nomination to the Board recognised the high level of responsibility he carries within the business and his ability to contribute to the wider understanding and leadership of the Groups operations.
Steve Foots has been with Croda since 1990 and so is well known to the Committee members.
The Committee continued its emphasis on the creation of a robust succession planning and development programme for senior employees below Board and Group Executive Finance Committee level.
As part of this it reviewed and endorsed new Group wide leadership development programmes aimed at providing a consistent and long term approach to leadership development from graduate to senior executive level.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of their duties.
Remuneration Committee Stanley Musesengwa Chairman Mike Buzzacott Martin Flower Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend all its meetings.
Further details of the Committees activities during the year can be found in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 28 to 39.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
25 Corporate governance Corporate governance Board and Committee evaluation The annual self evaluation exercise was carried out under the supervision of the Chairman to arrive at an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman and each of the committees.
The exercise employed a questionnaire completed by each Board member.
A summary of the results was then presented to the Board for discussion.
The Chairman also discussed the comments separately with individual directors as part of their own appraisals.
The senior independent director discussed the Chairmans performance with the other non-executive directors before feeding back comments to the Chairman.
Bearing in mind the Governance Code provision requiring external facilitation of the Board evaluations of FTSE 350 companies at least every three years, the Committee intends to take some preliminary external advice during the course of 2011 on matters such as desired attributes and skills of directors, planning for Board succession and evaluation techniques.
Other Committees The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He utilises a series of committees to assist him in this task.
Group Executive Committee Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Sean Christie - Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Steve Foots - President Europe Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional business and operational functions.
It meets quarterly and is responsible for the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Finance Committee Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Sean Christie - Group Finance Director Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations The Finance Committee meets monthly to review operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital expenditure proposals.
Risk Management Committee Sean Christie Chairman - Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Steve Foots - President Europe Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel The Risk Management Committee includes all members of the Group Executive Committee and the Finance Committee other than the Group Chief Executive.
Its role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Group SHE Steering Committee The Group also operates a Safety, Health and Environment SHE Steering Committee which is chaired by Kevin Nutbrown, President Global Operations, and comprises the heads of regional businesses, operational functions and the VP Group SHE.
It meets quarterly and monitors progress against the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews safety performance and determines the requirement for new or revised SHE policies, procedures and objectives.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
26 Directors report | Governance Corporate governance Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director maintain regular contact with major shareholders and ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole through the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers reports.
The Board invites the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment environment, Crodas performance, both generally and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed.
The senior independent director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, however, no such meetings were requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board.
The directors are also available to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting.
The annual report, including notice of AGM, is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance 2005 and in order to discharge this responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: l capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review processes: l financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated accounts, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework.
This framework is enshrined in the Groups Cowick Ordinance policy document which sets out the core business processes and accounting principles to be employed at all Group companies.
Compliance with the Ordinance is ensured by regular internal reviews supplemented by focused auditor effort: and l comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee.
The Group co-ordinates its approach to risk management globally through its Risk Management Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprises the heads of each business unit, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary.
Each operating site and function within the Group compiles its own risk register, highlighting the key risks it faces along with the mitigating controls in place to offset the risk.
These registers are reviewed and consolidated to ensure there is a comprehensive view of the material risks facing the Group along with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has reviewed its operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involved: l written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible: l internal audit work carried out by Deloitte & Touche LLP who report to the Audit Committee: and l reports from the external auditors.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensured that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 45 to 94, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
