Technical and Operational 1 2 Leadership Team 3 4 5 6 7 Production Operations 8 1 2 3 4 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Mr Ravi Sharma Mr Adebayo Ayorinde Mr Jack McFarland Mr Ron Parenti Director of Production Managing Director, Director of Operations Corporate Drilling 18 and Development Afren Nigeria Manager 19 20 21 5 6 7 8 9 10 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 Mr Patrick Ogunjimi Mr Julien Forquet Mr Shahin El-Sharif Mr Ricardo Ramirez Mr George Zeito Mr Constantin Deputy Director of Production Manager, Engineering and Corporate Geosciences Reservoir Engineering Paul vihristencu 31 Operations Cte divoire Planning Manager Manager Manager Corporate Geoscience 32 Technology Manager 33 34 35 36 Asset and Country Managers 37 11 12 13 14 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 Mr Kelechi Ojukwu Mr Taiwo Olushina Mr Okon Akpan Mr Yann Cherruau OML 26 Asset Manager Ebok Asset Manager Okoro Asset Manager Country Manager, 47 Cte divoire 48 49 50 51 52 Exploration 53 15 16 54 55 56 57 58 59 60 61 62 Dr Niall J McCormack Mr Barrington Rogers Exploration Director COO, Afren East 63 African Exploration 64 65 66 67 68 69 62 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review 1.
Mr Sharma leads Afrens production and development Mr Folquet is Production Manager for Afrens Mr Olushina is Asset Manager for the Ebok Asset and function.
He has over 20 years international operations in Cte dIvoire.
He has 20 years experience has over 20 years experience in the oil industry.
His experience in reservoir engineering, management and in process and production operations including experience covers project and design management: sub-surface development and has held senior positions working with the SIR refinery, Ocean Energy and operations, drilling and completions management.
at BHP Billiton, Occidental, BP and Baker Hughes.
He has also worked internationally in Egypt.
MrOlushina previously worked for ExxonMobil both MrSharma holds an MSc in Mechanical Engineering MrFolquet has an engineering degree with honours inNigeria and the USA.
Mr Olushina is a member from the University of Alberta, Canada.
from Ecole Nationale Superieure des Ingenieurs ofthe Society of Petroleum Engineers.
dAbidjan ENSIA and a post graduate qualification in Petroleum Engineering from Ecole Nationale Superieure 2.
13. du Petrole et des Moteurs ENSPM in France.
Mr Ayorinde is Managing Director of Afrens Nigerian Mr Akpan is Asset Manager for the Okoro field and office.
He has over 20 years experience in the oil and has over 18 years experience in the oil industry.
Prior to gas industry including production and maintenance joining Afren he was Project and Team Leader for Shell 7. operations, oil and gas project economics, facilities Nigeria.
His experience spans process and production Mr El-Sharif is Engineering and Planning Manager and engineering, drilling and completions engineering and operations, facilities engineering, project management, has over 13 years technical experience in all phases general management.
Prior to joining Afren he held pipeline engineering and supply chain management.
of the production life cycle.
Prior to joining Afren senior positions with Allied Energy Resources, Moni Mr Akpan holds an MEng in Industrial Engineering and he worked for Occidental in engineering planning Pulo and Ashland Oil.
Mr Ayorinde holds a BSc Hons Management Science from the University of Nigeria management and most recently with BHP Billiton as in Chemical Engineering from Obafemi Awolowo and a BSc Hons in Chemical Engineering from the a Subsurface Supervisor.
He holds a BSc in Geological University in Nigeria and is a member of SPE.
Engineering from the University of Arizona and an MBA from Pepperdine University, Malibu.
Mr McFarland is Director of Operations and a Mr Cherruau is Country Manager for Afren 8. registered petroleum engineer with over 30 years CtedIvoire and has around 10 years legal, Mr Ramirez is Corporate Geosciences Manager experience in the oil and gas industry.
He has extensive commercial and strategic planning experience in the for Afrens producing and development assets.
experience in reservoir, operations and production oil and gas industry with Total, Baker Hughes, African Hehas nearly 30 years experience in the upstream engineering coupled with a successful track record in Arabian and FMC Technologies.
He has worked geosciences having worked for Exxon Corporation: oil and gas asset evaluations and acquisitions.
Prior to internationally in Singapore and Tunisia.
Mr Cherruau PDVSA in Venezuela, Englehart Energy and Addax joining Afren he was a Director at Valiant International has a Masters degree in International Business Law Petroleum.
Mr. Ramirez holds a BSc in Geology from Petroleum and held senior management positions at and Management from Essec in France and an MBA Duke University and an MSc in Coastal Marine Geology Panther Resource Corporation and Ocean Cte dIvoire fromINSEAD.
from the University of South Carolina.
Dr McCormack is Exploration Director and is Mr Parenti is Corporate Drilling Manager and has Mr Zeito has over thirty years of industry experience, responsible for Afrens exploration strategy and a wealth of international drilling management which include 10 years as a senior engineer assigned work programme.
Dr McCormack has over 15 years experience, most recently with Addax Petroleum where to reservoir studies and 17 years in engineering experience and has held various senior positions he worked extensively in Nigeria, Cameroon, Gabon management roles.
Mr Zeito has worked on a wide within the Hess Corporation, most recently managing and Kurdistan.
He has over 25 years experience in range of petroleum engineering projects including Exploration, Exploitation and Appraisal for Africa.
the oil and gas industry and holds a BSc in Petroleum simulator development, conventional gas and water Earlier in his career he worked for The Institute of Engineering: a BSc in Finance: an MBA in Management floods, miscible gas injection, steam injection, fractured Geological and Nuclear Sciences in New Zealand and and an MSc in Environmental Science.
reservoir modeling, and the characterization of for BP in a number of international assignments.
Mr Zeito holds a BA degree holds a PhD and BA in Geology from Trinity College, in Computer Science from the University of Texas at 5.
Dublin where he has also been appointed a research Dallas and is a member of SPE.
Mr Ogunjimi is Deputy Director of Operations and associate.
Dr McCormack also lectures both nationally has over 20 years experience in the oil and gas and internationally.
He has extensive experience in exploration, 10. field development, planning and implementation, Mr Vihristencu has 30 years international experience 16. production operations management, oil and gas in upstream geosciences having worked in Eastern Mr Rogers has been appointed COO of Afrens East asset valuation and project finance activities.
Prior to Europe, Siberia, Kazakhstan, China, India, West Africa Exploration business.
Mr Rogers has over joining Afren he worked in various senior technical and and North Africa, Madagascar and Argentina.
He 35years experience in the oil and gas industry.
He has commercial roles with Western Atlas, Baker Hughes has extensive experience in petrophysics, geology, previously held senior positions with BP, Enterprise Oil and Randall & Dewey.
MrOgunjimi holds a BSc Hons geophysics, reservoir modeling, data acquisition and a number of smaller independent companies in in Chemical Engineering from University of Lagos and processing technologies as well as geosciences the Middle East and Turkey before joining Black Marlin and an MEng inPetroleum Engineering from software and databases applications.
Prior to joining Energy as Director of Exploration in 2007.
Afren in 2008, he worked in various senior technical a BSc in Geology and Geography from the University roles with Petrom, Western Atlas International, Baker ofLondon.
Hughes, Randall & Dewey and Jefferies International.
Mr Vihristencu received a MSc degree in Engineering Geology and Geophysics from Bucharest University.
Heis a member of AAPG and SEG.
Mr Ojukwu is an Asset Manager who will be project managing the transition of operations and technical handover of OML26 to FHN and Afren.
Mr Ojukwu has over 20 years experience, joining Afren from Shell where he worked in a similar capacity on a number of projects.
Mr Ojukwu holds an MEng in Petroleum Engineering from Heriot Watt University and a BEng in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Nigeria, Nsukka.
Afren plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
