Governance Corporate Governance Statement The Directors support high standards of corporate governance.
As a UK listed company, Afren plc is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions inSection 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governanc e Combined Code throughout the year and, where the provisions have not been complied with, toprovide an explanation.
Afren is also required to explain how it has applied the principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
cOmBinEd cOdE cOmPliancE This statement explains how the Directors applied the principles of the Combined Code during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Directors consider that theCompany complied in full with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2010. indEPEndEncE The Board considers the independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors upon appointment, annually and at any other time where the circumstances ofaDirector changes to warrant reconsideration.
Following a review of Board composition the Company has reassessed the independence of all the Non-Executive Directors and regards all of the current Non-Executive Directors to be independent within the meaning of independent as defined in the Combined Code.
When the Company listed on the AIM market, the Non-Executive Directors were eligible for share option awards.
Since admission to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority no share options have been granted to any Non-Executive Director and the Share Option Scheme Rules were amended in November 2009 to prohibit the award of share options to Non-Executive Directors.
Peter Bingham and John St John are the only independent Non-Executive Directors who have unexercised options.
We take the view that this does not impact the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
For more information see the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence of its Directors.
The policy provides that the test of independence is whether the Director is independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and unfettered or independent judgment by the director or the directors ability to act in the best interests of the shareholders.
Where a director is considered by the board to be independent, butisaffected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that the director is not independent the board has undertaken to explain the reasons why it has reached its conclusion.
The Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are set out in the policy.
Tested against that policy, the Board considers that each of the Directors have retained independence of character and judgment and have not formed associations with management or others that might compromise their ability to exercise independent judgment or act in the best interests of the company.
Some of the Directors hold or previously held positions in companies with which we have commercial relationships.
Those positions and companies are set out below in this report.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the company and companies in which the Directors hold or held positions and has concluded that in all cases, the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgment or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
In the case of Mr. John St John, the Board has considered the fact that he is a shareholder in St. John Advisors Ltd and a partner in STJ Advisors LLP, companies with which Afren has had commercial dealings.
St John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP operate in the financial advisory sector and it is Mr. St Johns breadth of current expertise, experience, knowledge and connections gained while providing capital markets advice to companies seeking access to the markets that brings significant value to the Board.
Prior to this and before the appointment of Mr. St John the Board assessed the relationships between Afren and St John Advisors Ltd and STJAdvisers LLP and remains satisfied that Mr. St John is able to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgment and act in the best interests of the company notwithstanding his role with St John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP.
In addition, commercial dealings with St John Advisors and STJ Advisers have been and totheextent they continue in the future will be approved by the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Mr. St. John and the Executive Directors absent themselves fully from these deliberations.
Transactions during the year that amounted to related party transactions under the International reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in note 35 to the financial statements.
The Company does not consider the level of fees paid to St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP to be material to either business.
Allthetransactions with Directors including Mr. St John qualify under the exemption for smaller related party transactions in respect of the Related Party Rules .
Afren plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Statement continued BOaRd cOmPOsiTiOn The Board currently has eight members.
Nine directors served on the Board in the 2010 financial year.
Of these, four, excluding the Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors, who the board consider to be independent.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, witha view to governing the business effectively and promoting shareholder interests.
The Board considers that the Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a range of skills, knowledge and experience necessary to enable them to govern the business effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors contribute international operational experience: understanding of the sectors in which we operate: knowledge of international capital markets and an understanding of the health, safety, environmental, political and community challenges we face.
Board member Position Year appointed Year of vacation of office Executive Director Non-Executive Director Egbert Imomoh Non-Executive Chairman 2005 X Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive 2004 X 1 Toby Hayward Non-Executive Director 2009 X Peter Bingham Non-Executive Director 2005 X John St. John Non-Executive Director 2007 X 2 Ennio Sganzerla Non-Executive Director 2009 X Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer 2008 X Darra Comyn Group Finance Director 2010 X Constantine Ogunbiyi Executive Director 2008 2011 X 1 Managing Director at Jeffries International, Afrens AIM Nomad.
Mr Hayward left Jeffries International in June 2008.
2 Member of Afrens International Advisory Board providing Non-Executive support to the Company until June 2009. fuTuRE BOaRd changEs The Board is committed to ensuring the majority of Directors are independent and is actively seeking to recruit an additional independent Non-Executive Director withthe relevant industry and geographical experience.
The Board hopes to be able to make an announcement in this regard, subject to securing the right candidate.
BOaRd sTRucTuRE The Board is responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives, reviewing the Groups performance and overseeing the Groups internal control systems and is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
At the end of the period of this report, the Board comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Darra Comyn joined the Board on 24 March 2010 as Executive Director responsible for leading and directing Afrens group-wide finance function and on 4 January 2011 Constantine Ogunbiyi stepped down as a Director of Afren plc to take up the position of CEO of First Hydrocarbon Nigeria.
Afren benefits from an experienced Board with extensive African experience and relationships and a broad range of commercial, financial and other relevant experience.
Brief biographies are set out on pages 60 to 61.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
It considers the potential candidates knowledge and experience of Africa, the oil and gas industry in Africa, capital markets and the regulatory environment, and that, in the case of Non-Executive Director appointments they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
TheChairman ensures that any new Directors are provided with afull induction on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement subject tosatisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each Non-Executive Director are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
The Board meets on at least four occasions during the course of the year to review trading performance and budgets, funding, to set and monitor strategy, examine acquisition opportunities and report to shareholders.
The Chief Executive holds informal meetings with the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group, such as target objectives, strategy, key performance indicators and remuneration matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions and responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and the responsibilities of Chairman and ChiefExecutive are independently defined.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the principles and processes of the Board are maintained, including the provision ofaccurate, timely and clear information in relation to the Group and its business.
The Chairman is also responsible for encouraging debate and constructive criticism, speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board to shareholders, andpresenting shareholders views to the Board.
The Board considers that none of Mr Imomohs other commitments interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
The Board is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified Mr Bingham to act as Chairman should the need arise at short notice.
70 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance The Combined Code recommends that the Board should appoint one of its independent Non-Executive Directors to be the senior independent Director.
The senior independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Operating Officer has failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
Mr Toby Hayward is the Boards existing senior independent Director.
The Board has appointed an Audit and Risk Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which have defined terms of reference which are summarised below.
Terms of Reference of the respective committees are available on the Company website.
Each Committee and each Director has the authority to seek independent professional advice where necessary to discharge their respective duties in each case at Afrens expense.
Inaddition, each Director and Committee has access to the advice of the Company Secretaries, Ms Shirin Johri and Mr Elekwachi Ukwu.
The Directors collectively have responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business and are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
A table detailing the Directors attendance at each of the Companys scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2010 is set out below.
2010 BOaRd and cOmmiTTEE mEmBERs aTTEndancE The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2010, together with details of each Directors attendance, is set out below: Number of Board meetings Number of held whilst a Board Board meetings Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination member attended Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 4 4 3 2 1 Egbert Imomoh 4 4 1 Osman Shahenshah 4 4 Toby Hayward 4 4 3 1 Peter Bingham 4 4 3 2 John St. John 4 4 3 2 Ennio Sganzerla 4 4 3 2 1 Shahid Ullah 4 4 Darra Comyn 4 4 Constantine Ogunbiyi 4 4 In addition to the four scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on ten occasions to deal with specific matters.
Board performance evaluation The performance of the Board is a fundamental component of the Groups success.
The Board regularly reviews its own performance and historically this review has been conducted internally.
The results of the most recent assessment were taken into account in the decision to recommend the search for prospective candidates for appointment as an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Board is satisfied that each Director continues to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his role.
The Chairman reviews the performance of each Non-Executive Director and, with the input of the Non-Executive Directors, the performance of each Executive Director in respect of their boardroom as opposed to executive roles which are evaluated as part of the Groups regular Performance Development Review process.
The Chief Executives total performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
During the year, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors present, to discuss Board issues.
The Chairmans own evaluation was conducted by the Non-Executive directors led by the senior independent Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The senior independent Director discussed and agreed the conclusions with the Chairman.
At the request of the Chairman, for the year ended 31 December 2010, Afren has retained Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP to conduct an external review of the Afrenplc Board performance.
The review will cover the performance of the Board as a whole, of the individual Directors and of the various committees of the Board.
The review isscheduled to take place in May 2011 and the results will be presented to the Board in June at which time recommendations will be made and agreed by the Board.
audiT and Risk cOmmiTTEE The Audit and Risk Committee comprises Mr Peter Bingham Chairman, Mr John St. John, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward.
The Board has determined that Mr Toby Hayward who is a chartered accountant and Mr John St. John who has extensive experience in financial markets have recent and relevant financial experience through their previous and current roles.
Inaddition, the other members of the Committee have a range of financial, commercial and other relevant experience.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other senior executives attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte is also invited to attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives from Deloitte at least once per annum and as and when required to discuss any matters which the auditors may wish to raise without Executive Directors being present.
During the year the Committee met on three occasions at each of which there was full attendance.
The Committees remit includes reviewing the internal control framework, the internal audit process, the financial reporting practices, the external audit process and recommending to the Board whether to reappoint the external auditor.
It ensures the Board regularly assesses business risks and the risk management and mitigation strategies.
In doing so, the Committee places reliance on reports from executive management, external audit and internal audit reviews.
In monitoring the financial reporting practices the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the accounting policies, areas of judgement, the going concern assumption and compliance with accounting standards, the Disclosure and Transparency rules and the Combined Code.
During the year the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, the half year and annual financial statements and other major statemetns affecting the Group concerning price sensitive information.
Afren plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Audit and Risk Committee has approved a policy on considering whether to employ the external auditors to supply services other than audit services, and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services the external auditors provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding ofthe Group is necessary.
The external auditors are specifically excluded from providing internal audit services, litigation support, remuneration advice and legal advice services.
Every other piece of non-audit work is assessed separately and is awarded depending on which professional services firm is considered best suited to perform the work.
In addition any non-audit work with a total fee greater than 25% of the annual audit fee must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee prior to the appointment being made.
The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
During the year a significant amount of non-audit related work was performed by the external auditors in relation to the acquisition of Black Marlin, work that would ordinarily be performed by external auditors for companies involved in such projects.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied that the carrying out of this work would not impair the independence of the external auditors.
Abreakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit and Risk Committee has recommended to the Board that the current auditors, Deloitte LLP be reappointed as external auditor.
In making the recommendation it has taken into consideration the independence matters noted above and the past service of the auditors, who were first appointed in 2005 after a full tender process.
TheCommittee has also considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice ofexternalauditor.
nOminaTiOn cOmmiTTEE The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward.
The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year and more frequently if required and is responsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company.
It regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required on the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure, which is based on merit and against objective criteria, for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Darra Comyn was identified as a potential candidate by internal sources and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Nomination Committee on the basis of his significant international experience as a finance practitioner, gained over 24 years in various senior positions including roles with international companies with emerging markets focus.
The whole Board subsequently discussed the recommendation before his appointment was confirmed.
REmunERaTiOn cOmmiTTEE The Remuneration Committee currently comprises MrJohnSt.
John Chairman, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Peter Bingham.
The Remuneration Committee isresponsiblefor: making recommendations to the Board on Afrens overall framework for remuneration and its cost and in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive determining remuneration packages of each Executive Director: reviewing the scale and structure of Executive Directors remuneration and the terms of their service or employment contracts, including share-based schemes, otheremployee incentive schemes adopted by Afren from time to time and pension contributions.
Executive Directors of the Company are not permitted to participate indiscussions or decisions of the Committee regarding their own remuneration: and ensuring that payments made on termination are fair to the individual and Afren.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the other Executive Directors outside the framework of the .
The Directors Remuneration report can be found on pages 75 to 82. inTERnal cOnTROls The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Combined Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and which isinaccordance with revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement orloss.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
As well as the ongoing regular reviews of the Groups system of internal control, the Board has also performed aspecific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by thereport, including relevant internal audit work undertaken.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
internal audit Internal audit and compliance monitoring work is carried out by the Groups Director of Business Process, supported by independent specialist consultants as required.
The reporting line is to the Group Finance Director, however reports of work undertaken are also provided to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and any requests from the Audit Committee of specific review areas are included in the work programme and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the Groups Director of Business Process.
The Board and the Audit Committee has considered the need for a formal internal audit department but considers the current structure to be most suitable at this point in time.
This will be reviewed on an annual basis.
72 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance control framework and activities The Board has put in place a management structure with defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
Key elements of the overall control environment are the various committees, including the Executive Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly and is responsible for all strategic and operational activities on a day to day basis.
The Group has developed a formal structured business planning process which operates on an annual cycle.
The Board approves the consolidated annual budget, andperformance against budget is monitored and reported to the Board.
The Groups risk assessment process is described on pages 42 to 43.
Significant risks, their potential impact on the Groups financial position, and actions taken tomanage those risks were reviewed regularly during the year by the Audit and Risk Committee and senior executives of the Company.
uk Bribery act 2010 The UK Bribery Act 2010 Act received royal assent on 8 April 2010.
The UK Ministry of Justice is working on additional guidance aimed at making the new legislation practical and comprehensive for businesses.
When the guidance is published it will be followed by a three month notice period before implementation of the Act.
TheCompany is currently awaiting the issue of the anticipated guidance prior to finalising our policies and procedures in this area.
assessment During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined tobe significant.
As described in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 49, security arrangements were reviewed at our operations in Nigeria following the incident in November 2010.
The Board remains satisfied with the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence and if they wish via an external reporting line, raise concerns about possible improprieties in relation to financial reporting or other matters.
RElaTiOnshiPs wiTh shaREhOldERs The Board represents the shareholders and is accountable to them for creating and delivering value through the effective governance of the business.
The Board remains fully committed to maintaining regular communication with its shareholders.
The Board has developed a strategy for engaging and communicating with shareholders, key aspects of which are outlined below.
There is regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and meetings are offered regularly following significant announcements.
Press releases have been issued throughout the year and the Company maintains a website www.
com on which all press releases are posted and which also contains major corporate presentations and the reports and accounts.
Additionally, this Annual Report, which is sent to all registered shareholders, contains extensive information about the Groups activities.
Enquiries from individual shareholders on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group are welcomed.
Shareholders are also encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting AGM to discuss the progress of the Group and are encouraged to make their views known to us and to raise directly any matters of concern.
The CEO, CFO and Investor Relations Team maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders on strategy, performance, plans and objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its half-year and full-year results are announced.
The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
The Groups Investor Relations department, with offices in London, acts as a focal point for contact with investors throughout the year.
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and communicates the views of investors to the Board as a whole.
The Senior Independent Director is also available to shareholders on their request.
All Non-Executive Directors, are available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
TheCompanys website provides access to current financial and business information about the Group.
cOnflicT Of inTEREsTs The Company amended its Articles of Association in June 2008 to deal with, amongst other things, the provisions on conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in October 2008.
Following this the Company has put in place procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict the Directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
The procedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts, and for the consideration and if appropriate, the authorisation of them by non-conflicted Directors.
The authorisation of a conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, maybe reviewed at any time by the Board.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board in this process, both by reviewing requests from Directors for authorisations of situations of actual or potential conflict and making recommendations to the Board and by reviewing any situations of actual or potential conflict that have been previously authorised by the Board, and making recommendations regarding whether the authorisation remains appropriate.
insuRancE cOvER The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Afren plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Statement continued ElEcTiOn and RE-ElEcTiOn The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board Membership.
All new Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
The Directors seeking re-election at the 2010 AGM are Osman Shahenshah and Shahid Ullah.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, annualre-election of all Directors will commence at the AGM in 2012. cOmPany sEcRETaRiEs Ms Shirin Johri is the Group Company Secretary.
Ms Johri has been called to the New York Bar.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for developing and maintaining the information systems and processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advising the Board on governance matters.
Ms Shirin Johri is supported by Mr Elekwachi Ukwu who isthe Joint Company Secretary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretaries.
The Board has the power to appoint and remove .
cOdE Of BusinEss cOnducT At Afren, we uphold the highest ethical standards for the conduct of our business activities.
We operate with integrity and honesty throughout the organisation andwith all our external stakeholders, namely: governments, business partners, shareholders, contractors and local communities.
In March 2009 the Board approved a Codeof Business Conduct to formalise Afrens commitment to high ethical standards and to reinforce prompt and consistent action in the maintenance of these standards.
Our Code of Business Conduct sets out the standards of business ethics that we expect all employees to adhere to.
We are committed toensuring that our business is conducted ethically, honestly and to high standards.
The Code applies to Directors and all employees, regardless of their position orlocation.
Consultants, contractors and business partners are also expected to act in accordance with the Code.
The Code of Business Conduct can be found onour website at www.
In addition to Afrens existing policies and procedures an independent, external reporting line has been introduced which allows employees in any country to report any concerns regarding fraud or other unethical practices in confidence.
The service is provided by Safecall who report toasenior management team who are responsible for determining the best course of action to be taken.
shaRE dEaling cOdE The Company has a share dealing code Code which covers dealings by Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMR and relevant employees.
This Code complies with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
The Code restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by PDMRs and employees during designated prohibited periods and at any time that they are in possession of unpublished price-sensitive information.
maRkET disclOsuRE We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure ensuring that all investors and potential investors have the same access to relevant information inan accessible and timely manner to assist them in making informed decisions.
Copies of announcements to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report andother relevant information are published on our website.
74 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
