Mr Andrew Olleveant head of Business Development Group head of C&P, Commercial and iT head of Risk Management 25 Mr Bajomo had a 25 year career with the Shell Group Before joining Afren, Mr Cherlet has held management Mr Olleveant has over 18 years health and safety 26 working in Exploration & Production, Economics & positions at Western Geophysical, Western Atlas, Baker experience in the oil industry of which over 10 were 27 Planning, Gas Development and Gas Consultancy Hughes, Randall & Dewey and Jefferies International.
spent in an international role with LASMO.
He 28 in Nigeria, Namibia, London and the Netherlands Mr Cherlet has a strong academic background, having has extensive experience of managing EHSS issues 29 between 1980 and 2005.
He was the Managing received an MS from Stanford University and an MS associated with major oil and gas projects as well Director of Shell Exploration and Production Namibia from Ghent University in Belgium.
as wider risk management experience.
In previous 30 and Namibia Country Chairman between 1999 and roles he has been responsible for developing and 31 2003.
From 2005 to September 2010, Mr Bajomo was implementing management systems and providing 32 6.
Mr Faiz imam with the BG Group as Vice President, Nigerian Assets.
corporate assurance that effective controls are in place.
Mr Bajomo holds a BSc in Chemical Engineering from Executive Director Business Development, MrOlleveant holds an MSc degree in Engineering 33 the University of Ife, Nigeria and an MSc in Engineering Geology from Durham University and a BSc in Nigeria 34 Production and Management from the University of Environmental Science from Lancaster University.
Mr Imam has 15 years experience in the oil industry.
He has worked in a variety of roles including 36 10.
Mr Daniel Sasegbon production engineering, facilities and gas engineering 37 2.
Mrs Jane Barker and government relations.
Since joining Afren, he General Counsel, Nigeria has made a significant contribution to the Companys 38 Group head of human Resources Mr Sasegbon has over 15 years advisory experience.
business development initiatives in Nigeria.
Mr Imams 39 Mrs Barker joined Afren in 2008 as Head of Human His background includes advising on oil and gas in both career began with Texaco in Nigeria as an offshore Resources, a role which encompasses Group-wide Nigeria and the Gulf ofGuinea, where he has advised 40 production engineer.
He moved through to developing responsibility for all HR activities.
She is MBA qualified a number of indigenous and international operators 41 projects, handling associated gas production, and then and has over 25 years human resources experience on farm-ins, production sharing contracts, joint venture on to deep-water project development.
He holds a 42 inthe oil and gas industry with Chevron, Gulf, LASMO agreements, FPSO and other operational contracts.
MEng in Chemical and Biochemical Engineering from and African Arabian: this included a three year Previously, Mr Sasegbon has worked as a Barrister in 43 University College, London.
assignment as Head of HR for a new country entry the UK, as well as for Jardines Insurance Brokers and 44 inVenezuela.
the Nigerian National Petroleum Company NNPC.
Mr Deji west Group General Counsel and 3.
Mr Sirima Bassina 47 Finance Director, Nigeria CompanySecretary External Affairs Coordinator, Cte divoire 48 Mr West leads the finance function for Afren Prior to joining Afren, Ms Johri worked in Cadwalader, Mr Bassina is a lawyer with over 29 years experience.
He brings over 23 years experience and Wickersham & Taft LLPs African practice.
She has He has held several roles in the oil and gas industry an in-depth knowledge of commerce, finance extensive experience advising on acquisitions and 50 including Deputy to the Vice President of the United and accounting tothe role from his time in several disposals, joint ventures, infrastructure projects Meridian Corporation and OceanEnergy.
He currently 51 industries including distribution, consulting, banking, and private equity investment.
Ms Johri has led the heads Government and Business Relations at Afren 52 manufacturing, andoiland gas.
Previously, Mr West Afren team in all significant corporate acquisitions Cte dIvoire.
was Group CFO for the Sahara Group: Nigerias largest 53 since joining in 2006.
She holds an LLM from the private oil and gas company.
Hehas worked with Cornell Law School, New York, an LLB Hons from 54 many organisations including British Petroleum, Price 4.
Mr David Capra Delhi University, India and a Bachelors degree from 55 Waterhouse now PWC and Mellon Bank.
She has also been called to the Group head of EhSS member of The Institute of Chartered Accountants 56 NewYorkBar.
Mr Capra has nearly 30 years experience in EHSS inEngland and Wales, and also in Nigeria.
57 matters including 20 years international experience 58 inoil and gas.
Mr Jeremy whitlock acting asSenior Safety Advisor for Occidental: 59 Finance Manager, Cte divoire head of Treasury and Planning HSEQManaging Coordinator for ENIs drilling and 60 Mrs Kodja is a financial accountant with over 13years production operations in Alaska and the Gulf of Mr Whitlock is a qualified accountant with 20 years 61 experience in the oil and gas industry.
Prior to joining Mexico and HSSE & Social Responsibility Corporate experience in the oil industry.
He spent 13 years with Afren, she was the Accountant at United Meridian Manager for Addax Petroleum in Geneva where 62 Enterprise Oil in a variety of roles across the finance International Corporation, Deputy Finance Manager he had responsibility for HSSE and Community department, including several years as Financial 63 at Ocean Energy and Finance Manager at Devon Relations activities worldwide including Africa and the Planning Manager and International and Corporate 64 CtedIvoire.
Mrs Kodja holds an MBA from University MiddleEast.
Mr Capra has an MS in Industrial Safety Accounting Manager.
Prior to joining Afren he was ofDistrict of Columbia Washington DC.
65 from Central Missouri State University and a BS in Planning Manager at Nexen UK Ltd. Mr Whitlock Health Science from Brigham YoungUniversity.
hasa BSc in Mathematics from Durham University.
66 67 68 69 64 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
