Chairmans introduction Directors report Your Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups business.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance which we recognise is fundamental to business integrity and enabling the Group to operate successfully.
The Company expects all directors and employees to act honestly, with integrity and fairness and this is supported by established policies and is reinforced through a culture which is driven from the Board members across the organisation.
As an increasingly global business, the Group strives to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure and respect the culture of every country where it does business.
The following report and the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 53 to 63 explains how the Board operates, the roles of the Board members and how the Board and its Committees function to ensure compliance with the principles of corporate governance.
It also sets out how we encourage our employees across the Group to contribute to ensuring that the Group as a whole operates to high standards of governance, in their participation within the business of the Board and its Committees and as individuals through their responsibility to support these principles.
Ron Mackintosh Statement of compliance The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and therefore, under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Board must report on compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, which are appended to the Listing Rules.
The Company is Corporate aware of the changes introduced as a result of the new UK Corporate Governance Code which will be effective for the Company for the reporting period commencing on 1 January 2011 and has either adopted aspects of the revised provisions early, or will adopt the new provisions through 2011. governance In addition to complying with UK corporate governance requirements, the Company must also follow US securities laws and regulations due to the registration of its ordinary shares with the US Securities and Exchange Commission, although it is not listed on a US stock exchange.
Other than the provision relating to the balance of executive and non-executive directors on the Board, the Board has complied with the provisions of the Code.
As disclosed in the Corporate Governance report for the financial year 2009, notwithstanding the non-compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board remained satisfied that an appropriate balance of skills and experience has been in place to enable the Board to perform its responsibilities effectively.
An overview of the balance of skills and experience on the Board is given on page 45.
In last years report the Board confirmed that during 2010, attention would be given to appointing an additional non-executive director.
The report explained that such an appointment would be made with due regard to the balance of existing skills, experience and contribution of each of the existing directors, allowing those new to the Board during 2009, being Mr Kanwar Chadha and Mr Diosdado Banatao time to become familiar with the Group, its activities and the role of the Board.
During May 2010, a process of determining a candidate profile was initiated and discussions were undertaken with executive search agencies, resulting in the appointment of an external agency in June 2010 to undertake a search for an additional non-executive director.
In June 2010, the Company announced that Mr James Collier, a co-founder of the Company and Chief Technical Officer, would, with effect from 1 September 2010, stand down from his role as an executive director on the Board.
Mr Collier has extensive knowledge of the Company in addition to the industry in which it operates.
As a result, the Board considered that the balance of skills and experience on the Board would benefit from Mr Colliers continued contribution in the capacity of a non-executive director.
Accordingly, effective from 1 September 2010, Mr Collier assumed his present role as a non-executive director.
Whilst the Board recognizes the fact that Mr Colliers previous role means he is not considered by the Code as being independent of management, it believes that Mr Colliers qualities will contribute to the Boards overall effectiveness.
In the period since his appointment in the capacity of a non-executive director, the Board is satisfied that Mr Collier has contributed in a manner demonstrably independent of management.
Following Mr Colliers appointment as a non-executive director, the Board balance was an equal number of executive and independent non-executive directors.
On 26 October 2010, Mr Diosdado Banatao, a non-executive director, who had joined the Board following the acquisition of SiRF in June 2009, stood down from the Board.
Effective 27 October 2010, Ms Teresa Vega was appointed as a non-executive director.
Ms Vega has over 30 years experience in the technology and telecommunications industries, working for leading global companies including Motorola Inc, where she served as senior vice president between June 2005 and July 2007, leading their global CDMA handset business and Lucent Technologies Inc, where she served as Chief Operating Officer of the wireless infrastructure unit for six years.
Ms Vegas appointment followed a thorough selection process, supported by external executive search consultants.
The Board considers that Ms Vegas experience and knowledge of the industries in which the Company operates will contribute to the performance of the Board.
Ms Vegas appointment was also made with due regard to diversity on the Board, including gender.
Succession Planning and Organisational Development In its report for 2009, the Board explained that succession planning needed to be an area for focus, particularly in light of the acquisition of SiRF completed in June 2009.
This recognised the increasing size of the Group and the complexity of its operations.
During the autumn of 2010, an external consultancy was appointed to support the Board 44 45 Corporate governance continued Directors report in conducting a measured review, which included interviews with members of the Board and other executives and managers in the Company.
The Board will consider the findings of the report and the appropriate next steps during the first quarter of 2011.
Executive Ethics Policy All employees of the Group, including the executive directors and senior officers, must comply with the Groups Ethics Policy adopted in 2009 following the Companys registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition, the Company has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to executive directors, senior officers and other specified employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics requirements of Section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
A copy of the Executive Ethics Policy may be found at www.
The following statements describe how the Board operates and the respective roles of the Chairman, non-executive and executive directors.
The Board As at 31 December 2010, the Board comprised ten members, being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Of those in post as at 31 December 2010, nine directors including Mr Mackintosh had served throughout the year.
The four executive directors in office at 31 December 2010 who had served throughout the year were Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer, Mr Kanwar Chadha, Chief Marketing Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
The three non-executive directors who served throughout the year, each of whom is considered independent of management, were Mr Anthony Carlisle, Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio and Mr Andrew Allner.
Mr James Collier, who was a co-founder of the Company and stood down as an executive director on 1 September 2010, was, with effect from that date, appointed a non-executive director.
Ms Teresa Vega was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 27 October 2010.
Mr Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board since May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the Company since May 2004.
In the opinion of the Board, on each of his appointments as a non-executive director and as Chairman, Mr Mackintosh was independent of management.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh is able to devote the necessary time commitment to the role of Chairman of the Board.
Mr Anthony Carlisle has served as the Senior Independent Director since May 2009 and Mr Andrew Allner, a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial experience, has served as Chairman of the Audit Committee since May 2009.
Mr Gardiner is the director responsible for health and safety.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary throughout the year.
Board Balance and Diversity The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of diverse skills and experience that contribute to the effective performance of the business and contribution of the Board.
The Board includes executive and non-executive directors with extensive knowledge of the background and development of the Group, including Board members who were founders of both CSR and SiRF.
The Board has a wide experience of working in industries relevant to those in which the Group operates.
This experience encompasses the cycle of product research, development, strategic marketing and communications, customer knowledge, and wider corporate development.
The Board believes that it is important to consider board diversity within the context of ensuring those appointed to the Board are able to contribute effectively based on relevant skills and knowledge.
Reflecting the global business within which the Group operates, the Board comprises directors from five different nationalities with experience of managing businesses in each of the continents in which the Group is present.
A detailed biography for each member of the Board is given on pages 42 and 43.
The Conduct of the Business of the Board The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an adhoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective and proper management and control of the Company and Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
Its primary role is to determine and review strategy and policy, consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests for major capital expenditure and give consideration to all other significant financial matters.
This process is undertaken following discussions in conjunction with senior executive management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting the objectives.
The Chairman ensures that the Board functions effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
A comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for each director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board, taking into account, where appropriate, the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants and executive management.
The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse business, financial and technical experience, details of which are summarised on pages 42 and 43 and they each play a full role in the consideration of matters brought before the Board.
This includes: considering, approving and monitoring performance against strategic objectives through detailed reviews conducted at Board level: providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risks to be assessed and managed: and setting the Groups values and standards and ensuring that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued Directors report Non-executive directors are expected to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its normal business.
This includes holding two offsite meetings each year, the agendas for which cover a broad range of financial, commercial and technical aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the Group.
These meetings are held in the summer and autumn, with different members of the management team attending, depending on the topics for discussion.
As part of the process for reviewing strategy both within its normal business and the offsite reviews, the Board considers the known and potential challenges associated with the execution of the objectives.
The Board also considers the risks to the Group in delivering the strategy, assessing not only the consequences of failing to meet the objectives but, where possible, the potential impact upon the business in determining to follow the strategic plan of record.
During October 2010, the Chairman travelled with the CEO to a number of the Groups US offices to meet with staff to discuss the Companys vision and strategy and obtain feedback on the performance of the business.
In September 2010, the Board travelled to India for a meeting, the business of which included discussions with third parties to enhance understanding on the social, economic, and technological developments in India.
Whilst in India, the Board also visited the Groups offices in Bangalore and Delhi to hold meetings with members of staff and attend demonstrations on products under development.
The Board considers these visits to be an important part of enhancing its understanding of the Group, its business and employees.
It is expected that during 2011, the Board will undertake a business visit to Japan.
Independence of non-executive directors and segregation of duties In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has been given to the independence of all the non-executive directors.
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The Board considers that Mr Collier, formerly an executive director to the Board, who in September 2010 assumed the role of a non-executive director, acts in a manner which is independent of management and the Company.
The division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, CEO, is sufficiently clear in the opinion of the Board that it is not required that they be formally documented.
The Chairman is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board.
The CEO is responsible for leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group and has reporting to him executive management who in turn are responsible for the performance of discrete commercial and operational activities of the Group.
This includes management teams responsible for reviewing the implementation of established objectives and assessing performance of particular functions against those objectives.
Representatives from these teams in turn attend and report to a weekly executive leadership forum which includes the executive directors.
The CEO also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in various established forums that fit with the operational cycles of the Group.
The CEO formally reports at each meeting of the Board on salient matters arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
The Board met 16 times during the year and the attendance of each of the directors is shown on page 52.
Evaluation of the Performance of the Board The Board has undertaken an annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees on which it has reported since 2006.
Since inception of the evaluation, the review has been conducted through a written survey prepared by the Company Secretary.
The Board has considered the provisions of the new Corporate Governance Code and its guidance on the conduct at least once every three years of an evaluation of the performance of the Board supported by an external agent.
Following Board approval, the Chairman conducted a series of interviews of potential agencies, resulting in the appointment in the autumn of 2010 of Armstrong Bonham-Carter to support the evaluation process.
The evaluation is being conducted through the first quarter of 2011.
The Board expects Armstrong Bonham-Carter to report on their findings at the end of the first quarter of 2011.
The Board will consider the results of the evaluation and any actions taken by the Board will be reported upon in the annual report for 2011.
Policy on Appointment and Re-Appointment In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
It is the policy of the Board that non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The directors performance is assessed throughout the term.
An appointment may, if performance is satisfactory, be extended for a further period not exceeding three years.
Non-executive directors should not generally serve for more than nine years.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code which come into effect for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010, the Board has determined to early adopt the provision in regards to election of directors.
Accordingly all directors serving on the board will stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2011.
This is explained in more detail in the accompanying notice of meeting.
Ms Teresa Vega was appointed a non-executive director with effect from 27 October 2010 and has a letter of appointment effective for a three year term from that date.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, Ms Vega will be offering herself for election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting being the first General Meeting of the Company since her appointment.
Further information on each of the directors standing for re-election and election are set forth in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is in a separate document issued to all shareholders.
46 47 Corporate governance continued Directors report On appointment, all directors are asked to confirm they have sufficient time to devote to their duties which, along with their duties and roles are confirmed in their letter of appointment.
They are also advised that they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
As part of their induction, the directors are provided with a detailed file explaining their role and duties, in addition to background information on the Company and Group as well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board and its committees.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are arranged to assist in briefing a director on appointment.
Directors are also provided with information and assistance in the event of any change in their role.
Indemnities to Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as directors to the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the directors and officers.
Communications with shareholders Principally via the executive directors, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its major shareholders through regular meetings and presentations following announcements of each quarters results.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr Anthony Carlisle, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also appraised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that executive and non-executive directors consider any matters which might be raised by those shareholders and to enable all directors to understand shareholders views.
This includes feedback from the meetings attended by executive directors and the Chairman, in addition to reports from the Companys advisers on their engagement with shareholders on behalf of the Company.
During 2010, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with a number of shareholders to discuss the Boards remuneration policy, which included a review of changes introduced in 2010 to aspects of the remuneration of executive directors, primarily concerning the structure of the cash bonus plan and the utilization of share based incentives.
These are considered in more detail in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 53 to 63.
Non-executive directors attend the Annual General Meetings and will also make themselves available to meet with shareholders on other occasions where requested.
Corporate information is available on the Companys website, www.
Information on the website is not incorporated by reference in the filing of the Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Committees of the Board The Board has three Committees, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
Throughout the year, the Chairman and each of Mr Allner, Mr Carlisle and Mr Giacoletto-Roggio were members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Mr Mackintosh attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
In accordance with the Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website, www.
Membership of the Committees is shown on page 42 and 43.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
The terms of reference are each subject to annual review.
Information on the Companys website is not incorporated by reference in the filing of this Annual Report with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Remuneration Committee Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, which position he has held since September 2007.
The other members of the Committee at 31 December 2010 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Mackintosh.
The principal function of the Remuneration Committee is to establish and review the terms and conditions for the executive directors, and the overall policy framework for the remuneration of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year and the attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 52.
The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration Committee, how directors are remunerated, together with details of individual directors remuneration are shown on pages 53 to 63.
Nomination Committee Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, which position he has held since 2 May 2007.
The other members of the Nomination Committee at 31 December 2010 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Giacoletto-Roggio.
The Nomination Committee meets as appropriate to consider appointments to the Board and to consider succession planning at senior levels within the Company.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and non-executive directors have the necessary skills and attributes for the future success of the Group.
The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as appropriate to assist the Committee in identifying candidates for appointments to the Board.
During 2010, the Nomination Committee did not meet separately, but did meet as part of the formal proceedings of the Board to consider the appointment of Ms Vega.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued Directors report Audit Committee Mr Andrew Allner is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, a position he has held since 27 May 2009.
Mr Allner was appointed following the retirement from the Board of Mr David Tucker who had acted as Chairman of the Audit Committee since February 2004.
The Board has determined that Mr Allner, a Chartered Accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US securities laws, although CSR is not listed in the United States, Mr Allner is independent in accordance with the definition of independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market.
The other members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2010 were Messrs Carlisle and Giacoletto-Roggio.
Mr Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
The experience and expertise of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages 42 and 43.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 52.
As part of encouraging continuous improvement, the Audit Committee supports management in identifying targets and objectives for extending existing processes and ensuring that it works in tandem with changes to the Group which are a feature of operating in a dynamic industry.
Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Your Board believes that it is essential for the success of the Company to ensure that a framework of effective oversight on the performance of management and the business is in place to support the fulfillment of appropriate and balanced strategic imperatives of the Group which in turn are intended to sustain and improve business and financial performance.
In the following sections of this report, we explain how during 2010 the Audit Committee has contributed to this process in reviewing and providing guidance to management in the execution of a number of important projects, linked to the continuing development of the Group and also matters linked to ongoing regulatory compliance.
These have included the project to ensure the Group was able to satisfy Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, the implementation of improvements to the Groups business information systems, in addition to preparing for the introduction of the UK Bribery Act, as well as the standard business matters delegated by the Board to the Committee.
Andrew Allner Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
The Audit Committee monitors the conduct of the statutory audits of the consolidated reports and financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
This includes consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in conjunction with the external auditors and assessment of their findings and recommendations, where relevant.
The Audit Committee recommends the appointment and re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and considers the scope of their audit work, the terms of their appointment, their fees and the cost effectiveness of their work.
The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, risk management procedures and compliance controls, as well as the statement on internal controls before it is agreed by the Board for each years annual report.
A detailed agenda of matters for discussion at the meeting, together with supporting papers is provided in advance of each meeting.
The agenda incorporates a range of standard business items considered at each meeting.
Routine business items include reports from the Chief Financial Officer and Internal Auditor as well as a draft form of the announcement on the Groups financial results for the relevant quarter.
In addition the Audit Committee addresses a number of other items as part of its schedule of business through the course of a year, such as risk management, business continuity planning, treasury policy and procedures, tax planning and the Groups policy manual as well as such ad-hoc matters as are deemed appropriate.
The schedule of agenda items for the calendar year was last reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in July 2010.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the Audit Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is considered to be appropriate.
The Conduct of the Business of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met four times during the year in the execution of its responsibilities.
The more material matters considered and any proposals for action were reported by the Chairman of the Audit Committee to the subsequent meeting of the full Board.
During 2010, in addition to the routine business, the Audit Committee received reports on additional matters falling within its terms of reference, including the implementation of an enhanced integrated business information system for the Group, and work to ensure the Group was able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the 2010 financial year.
More details on this work is set out below.
The Audit Committee reviews all proposed announcements to be made by the Group to the extent they contain financial information, but primarily the announcement of the Groups results released each quarter to the markets and investors.
Each quarter, as part of its routine business, the Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial Officer on the performance of the Group.
In addition to a summary of the balance sheet and income statements, the report incorporates detailed analysis on a range of key metrics which tracks the performance of the Group and its business units.
This information forms part of the discussions by the Audit Committee to ensure that material matters are properly considered and discussed with management and where appropriate the external auditors.
The information and the discussions in turn supports the understanding of the Audit Committee on the nature of disclosures which should be made in the Groups financial results.
48 49 Corporate governance continued Directors report The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function, approving the annual internal audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports on the results of internal audit work which has been conducted.
These reports are provided on a quarterly basis and up-date the Audit Committee on the progress in addressing any recommendations that have been made arising from the audits which have been conducted.
Since the Company became subject to the reporting requirements of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Audit Committee has received reports from management regarding the Companys compliance with requirements under the Exchange Act including those rules and regulations that apply by reason of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relate to financial reporting and other disclosure matters.
These requirements relate among other things to disclosure controls and procedures which became applicable in June 2009 and internal control over financial reporting which applied from the beginning of the 2010 financial year.
To support the Company in working towards compliance with the Exchange Act, the Committee appointed a project team, which included external consultants, to develop a programme of work.
The programme established milestones for implementing required processes in addition to the conduct of appropriate testing and validation.
During 2010, the Committee received reports at each of its meetings on progress.
This has included reports from the Internal Auditor, as well as the results of a review by the External Auditor.
As disclosed in the Corporate Governance report for 2009, the position of Internal Auditor became vacant in the final quarter of 2009, following the appointment of the incumbent to another senior financial role in the Group.
During the first quarter of 2010, a new appointment as Internal Auditor was made.
The Audit Committee approved an internal audit plan in April 2010.
The plan provided for reviews of aspects of the controls and procedures of the Group associated with the introduction of the new integrated business system and compliance with the Exchange Act, audits in various offices and of external agents who support the Groups supply chain.
As part of the adoption of the plan, the Audit Committee also supported the utilisation of external resources to assist in timely execution and reporting.
The Audit Committee received regular reports during 2010 on this work from the project team, members of management whose areas of responsibility were affected by the implementation and the Internal Auditor.
These reports considered the planning for the phased implementation of the system, validation on operational integrity, project costs and also, following completion a review of the lessons to be learned from the project.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had cash resources of $440.1 million an increase over the prior year of $27.8 million.
Reflecting this substantial asset of the business, the Committee monitors the Groups Treasury function on a regular basis, including where appropriate periodic external audits of the Treasury functions policies, procedures and working practices.
The last such audit was undertaken in 2009, by Ernst & Young LLP, following the acquisition of SiRF on which the Committee reported in the Corporate Governance Report for 2009.
During the final quarter of 2009 and through the first quarter of 2010, the treasury function was strengthened with recruitment of additional resource.
In conjunction with the enlargement of the team, a review of formal controls and the segregation of duties was undertaken.
Changes to prevailing practices were reported to the Audit Committee and adopted.
These changes have been the subject of external review during 2010, by way of assurance that the changes have been effective and as part of working towards compliance with Sarbanes Oxley mentioned above.
The Groups Treasury Policy was most recently reviewed in September 2010 and the findings reported for consideration by the Audit Committee at its scheduled meeting in October.
The review included an assessment of approved counterparties with whom the Company might place cash on deposit and other amendments to the policy to comply with Sarbanes Oxley.
The routine business of the Committee at each meeting includes an up-date on a range of ongoing litigation and litigation related matters concerning the Group.
This review is also supported by a sub-committee of the Board led by the Chairman which was established in 2009 the purpose of which is to consider matters connected with material litigation.
Both the Audit Committee and the Litigation Sub-committee have access to the advice and support of the Groups executive management and outside counsel where considered appropriate.
The results of these meetings are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
In response to the forthcoming Bribery Act which comes into effect during 2011, the Committee appointed external consultants to conduct an audit of current practices and awareness within the organization across functions and territories on appropriate processes and engagements with third parties.
The results of that review were considered by the Committee at its meeting in July 2010.
The report has been used to develop a programme of measures intended to develop employee awareness at all levels of the organization.
This includes the promulgation of a global policy and a training programme across the Group globally, including presentations to the executive leadership, the wider management team of the Group and the Board.
At its scheduled meeting, the Committee receives reports on the progress in implementing the programme of measures to ensure targets are being met, which in turn are shared with the Board.
Interaction with the External Auditors During 2010, as part of its formal business, the Audit Committee met on four occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions the Audit Committee also held separate meetings with the external auditors at which no executive director or employee of the Company was present.
In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee has a policy of permitted services which details the services that can be provided by the Groups auditors and those services which require specific advance approval by the Audit Committee.
The policy also details services that the Groups auditors are not permitted to provide.
For permitted services, the Audit Committee has delegated the determination of fees to the Chief Financial Officer, provided the fee does not exceed 100,000.
No services can be provided in excess of 100,000 without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The policy was reviewed in October 2010.
Both the existing policy and the policy in place prior to October 2010 were complied with throughout the year.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued Directors report The Audit Committee is aware of and has approved the audit and non-audit services which have been provided during 2010 by the Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Those non-audit services concerned advice on tax matters which was considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this work, Deloitte LLP have retained objectivity and independence during the year.
The following table sets forth the fees paid by the Company to the external auditors as approved by the Audit Committee.
2010 2009 2008 $000 $000 $000 Audit Fees 745 936 360 Audit-related services 44 103 34 Taxation services 394 511 130 Other Services 2,189 Total 1,183 3,739 524 The category for Other Services for 2009 includes $316,000 for advisory work provided by Deloitte LLP in connection with the acquisition of SiRF.
The remaining balance for other services primarily consists of Deloitte LLP acting as UK reporting accountant and SEC regulatory reporting accountant.
The taxation services consist of Federal and State tax return preparation, US transfer pricing documentation and advice regarding the structure of the Groups US operations.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditors since July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly.
The most recent full review, including release of tenders to other possible audit firms was conducted in 2005.
In 2010, the Chairman of the Audit Committee led a meeting which reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors which concluded that Deloitte LLP was performing satisfactorily and should be recommended for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Companys Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised concerning the Audit Committees activities.
Internal control Philosophy and policy The objective of the directors and senior management is to safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the Company.
Part of this objective requires the development of relevant policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure proper management of the Companys resources and the identification of risks which might serve to undermine them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Companys senior management, in conjunction with external advisers, are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with senior management of the Group and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that this process accords with the internal control guidance for directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and that through its interface with management, the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, so far as is possible.
A risk evaluation process has been implemented throughout 2010 and was in place up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and the financial statements.
The risk evaluation process has been the subject of review by the Committee during 2010.
This ongoing review process included an up-date on the progress in addressing the disclosure and management of key risks affecting the Group.
During 2010 a review of risks which might affect the Group was conducted which involved all functions of the business.
Risks were rated based on a scoring method which was also the subject of review in 2010.
The scoring method is based on two metricsthe possible financial impact of a risk occurring and the probability that the risk might occur.
These two metrics allow the risks to be scored and then ranked based on the scores.
The executive leadership review the results of these scores and the ranking of risks.
In their review, the executive leadership consider how the risks might impact upon the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and the overall performance of the business.
Where a risk is considered to be material, a member of the executive leadership is made responsible for developing a plan intended to mitigate against the risk actually occurring or to respond in the event the risk were to occur.
The plans are the subject of review by the Audit Committee for the material risks each half year.
Consistent with a practice first implemented at the end of the prior financial year, a meeting of the Board dedicated to the consideration of key risks of the Group was held in February 2011 in order to allow for detailed discussion on issues of risk and risk management and to augment the process for approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The meeting considered the basis on which risks affecting the Group were identified, and how management intends to manage the risks going forward, including how action plans are prioritised.
That meeting determined that the steps being taken by management were satisfactory.
50 51 Corporate governance continued Directors report Managing risks The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been or are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify and manage risks across the Group are set out below.
Risk profiling There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings by the Groups senior management, and engagement of external consultants where in the opinion of the Groups senior management this is considered appropriate.
Findings are reported to the Audit Committee together with recommended actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation.
The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the business and any observations or proposals arising from events since the last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks is developed and reviewed by management to ensure that possible mitigation measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
Responsibility is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions which are also reviewed and up-dated by management.
Controlling risk The Group has policies which address a range of key business risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and the protection of intellectual property.
The policies are made available to relevant employees through policy manuals, an intranet site and also via employee briefings on specific topics.
Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that ongoing practices within relevant parts of the Group comply with current policies.
In addition, policies are themselves reviewed against best practice and in order to take appropriate account of developments both within or external to the Groups business operations.
As part of a process of continuous improvement, steps are ongoing to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and to the Boards attention.
As explained in the Directors Report Business and Financial Review on pages 5 to 33, the Group has a treasury policy for the placement of cash deposits with financial institutions.
As part of its schedule of matters, and reflecting management recommendations, the Audit Committee considered a revised Treasury Policy in October 2010.
This has subsequently been submitted for adoption by the Board.
As one aspect of ensuring a culture of integrity and encouraging high standards throughout the organisation, the Group has a formal whistle-blowing policy.
The policy provides information on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure where they believe there has been improper conduct or actions which could cause the companys good standing to be called into question.
The policy was most recently up-dated during 2010.
The revised policy was adopted by the Board at its meeting in December 2010 and the revised policy was adopted on the Groups intranet.
All employees have been reminded of the existence of its policy and purpose.
The policy has been translated into certain languages where it was felt the English language version may inhibit a detailed understanding of its terms.
A separate policy has been implemented in France in order to comply with the legislation in that country.
The policies outline how employees can report matters of concern and of the Companys commitment to respond appropriately to circumstances warranting investigation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigation.
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk The actions arising from external and internal assessments of risks are consolidated and during 2010 the results were reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee assesses the findings and proposed actions for addressing residual risks and also advises on areas for further attention.
Business continuity planning Since 2007 a rolling programme aimed at improving the Groups Business Continuity Plan has been in place.
The project has been facilitated by the risk management practice of a leading independent consultant.
Through workshops and one-on-one interviews, the potential significant risks are identified and an action plan implemented to enable the Group to respond in the event that such a risk arose.
That plan was the subject of further work during 2009.
This included a workshop attended by senior management conducted in November 2009 which assessed the adequacy of existing plans and provided feedback on areas for further development across the Group.
There is a programme of further reviews and testing due to take place during 2011.
The findings and steps taken to date have been reported to the Audit Committee.
Internal financial controls The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes assessment of the Groups strategic direction, objectives and financial returns and the risks in achieving them.
As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these reviews are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial and non-financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given on pages 34 to 41.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued Directors report These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted by the Internal Auditor and external advisers, as determined by the Audit Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the Financial Statements for the 52 week period ended 31 December 2010.
Controls and Procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Group is subject to the provisions of the U. S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires a report of management on the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Accordingly, beginning in the 2010 financial year the Group undertook a review of its internal controls to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and the Companys Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer have issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at 31 December 2010.
Managements certification and the independent auditors opinion on internal controls over financial reporting are reported as required in the Companys SEC filings.
During the year ended 31 December 2010, there have not been any changes in the Groups internal controls over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The executive management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act as of 31 December 2010.
Based on such evaluation the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at 31 December 2010, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that the information which the Group is required to disclose in the reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the US Securities and Exchange Commissions rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as the principal executive and financial officers, respectively, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Attendance at meetings The table below shows the attendance of each of the directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the 52 weeks ended 31 December 2010.
of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 16 4 5 1 A J Allner 15 4 5 1 1 D Banatao 2 J A J van Beurden 16 A E C G Carlisle 16 4 5 1 K Chadha 16 J D Y Collier 14 D D W Gardiner 16 S Giacoletto-Roggio 15 4 5 1 C A Ladas 16 R W Mackintosh 16 5 1 2 Ms T M Vega 3 1 Retired from the board on 26 October 2010.
2 Appointed to the board on 26 October 2010.
Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 18 May 2011, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden, Company Secretary 8 February 2011 52 53
