48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crests approach to and governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group were compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code on provided to the Board on a regular and timely basis.
Briefings Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council on market activity, together with the views of shareholders and in June 2008 and explains any departure from its provisions.
This analysts on the Company, were also provided to the Board.
report has been prepared following the main principles of the Code.
Those not referred to in this report are dealt with elsewhere in the The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for Directors and Annual Report.
The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed Officers and in 2005 the Articles were amended to provide that the by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 111.
Company shall indemnify its Directors and other Officers out of the assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
The Board Code main principle A.
1: Every company should be headed by an The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
process for appraising the Chairmans performance is set out on page 50.
Dairy Crests Board recognises its responsibility to provide entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within a Board committees framework of prudent and effective controls described below allowing Summary assessment and management of the key issues and risks impacting There are five principal Board Committees: Audit: Remuneration: the business.
The Board sets Dairy Crests overall strategic direction, Nomination: Corporate Responsibility: and the Management reviews management performance and ensures that the Group has the Board.
The roles and responsibilities of each of these Committees necessary financial and human resources in place to meet its objectives.
All the Audit and Remuneration Committee The Board is satisfied that the necessary controls and resources exist members and a majority of Nomination Committee members within the Group to enable these responsibilities to be met.
are independent Non-executive Directors under the Code.
The Committees are provided with sufficient resources via the The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to Company Secretariat and, where necessary, have direct access to create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder independent professional advisers to undertake their duties.
interests and takes responsibility for setting the Companys values and standards.
Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, Audit Committee together with consideration of the wider community of interests Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed chairman of the Audit represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community Committee on 1 August 2009 when David Richardson, who and the environment are factored into the Groups management had during the year until then chaired the Committee, stood processes.
They are reinforced through employee participation in down from the Board.
The other members are Howard Mann, share ownership plans.
Appropriate account is also given to social, Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica.
Anthony Fry was a member environmental and ethical issues within the Companys control and until he stood down from the Committee on his appointment as risk assessment processes.
The steps taken to achieve these goals Chairman.
Andrew Carr-Locke is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute are communicated to shareholders and other interested parties of Management Accountants.
Consistent with the Guidance through the Companys External Affairs Director, the Companys on Audit Committees formerly known as the Smith Guidance, website www.
co. uk and to employees via the Group all members of the Committee are independent Non-executive intranet and through formal and informal briefings and newsletters.
Andrew Carr-Locke is deemed by the Board to be the Through formal policies summaries of which are published on the Audit Committee financial expert with recent and relevant financial Companys website the Board seeks to engender a culture where experience and independent for the purposes of the Code.
All of business ethics, integrity and fairness are values that all employees the Committee members have extensive commercial experience endorse and apply in their everyday conduct.
Further information on the Companys application of the Code and on the Audit Committee and its work during the year During 2009 10, the Company continued its programme of is set out in its report on pages 52 and 53. embedding its core values with employees.
Details of activity undertaken during the year are set out in the Corporate Remuneration Committee Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 33.
Further details will be Neil Monnery has chaired the Remuneration Committee for the provided in the online Corporate Responsibility Report which will be year ended 31 March 2010.
The other members of the Committee published on the Companys website in the summer.
are Andrew Carr-Locke, Howard Mann and Carole Piwnica.
David Richardson was a member of the Committee until his resignation In 2009 10 the Board met eight times, one of those meetings was from the Board on 1 August 2009 as was Anthony Fry until his held at the Groups national distribution centre in Nuneaton.
Details appointment as Chairman on 1 January 2010.
The Committee met of Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out in five times in 2009 10.
Details of Directors attendance at meetings the table at page 11. during the year are set out in the table at page 11.
A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during 2009 10, There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board including further information on the Companys application of the including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report reporting and controls, Board and Committee appointments, which was approved by the Board on pages 38 to 44.
Its terms of executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance reference comply with the Code, are available on request and are compliance.
During 2009 10, the Board received regular briefings published on the Groups website.
The full terms and conditions of upon the Groups performance including detailed commentary and appointment of the Companys Non-executive Directors are available analysis and key issues and risks affecting the Groups business.
for inspection at its registered office and a summary is available on Amongst other matters, it reviewed the content of the Groups risk the Groups website.
The chairman of the Committee provided a register and the Groups Health & Safety policies, processes and report to the Board following each meeting of the Committee.
Reports on Group operations, human resources, Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 49 Nomination Committee Other committees As the Committee was leading the process for the appointment The Groups Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by of Simon Olivers successor as Chairman, in accordance with the Chief Executive, which consists of Executive Board members the Code, Simon Oliver stood down as its chairman remaining a and other senior executives meets periodically.
The Strategy and member until 31 December 2009 and Howard Mann now chairs Policy Leadership Team is used to assist the Executive Directors the Committee.
The Committees other members are Anthony in the execution of their duties by helping to shape and influence Fry, Neil Monnery, Andrew Carr-Locke and Carole Piwnica.
the Groups strategy and policy.
Through its diverse membership David Richardson was a member of the Committee until his representing the various constituencies of the Group it helps resignation from the Board.
The Committee meets as and when to ensure that key stakeholders are consulted and have the required.
During the year it met twice and details of Directors opportunity to input into the design and preparation of the Groups attendance at that meeting during the year are set out in the table strategy, policy and key business decisions.
Within each of the at page 11.
Company executives and advisers attend meetings Groups business units there are operating boards responsible for by invitation only.
The Committee updates the Board and makes monitoring the performance of those business units.
To ensure recommendations as and when required.
consistency of approach and cross-learning, members of the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team also chair Group leadership The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are teams responsible for the following areas: finance: information available on request and are published on the Groups website.
technology systems: supply chain: human resources: innovation: The Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board marketing: sales: vision & values: Health & Safety.
Reports are level, overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and provided from these various leadership teams, as appropriate, to making its recommendations to the Board.
It is also responsible, the Management Board, the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team in conjunction with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments and the Board.
of individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and ensures that the membership of Chairman and chief executive the Board and its principal committees are refreshed periodically.
2: There should be a clear division of Where appropriate, the Committee will prepare an outline of the responsibilities at the head of the company between the running role and capabilities required for particular appointments and use of the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the an external search consultancy and or advertising in relation to companys business.
No one individual should have unfettered Board appointments.
During 2009 10, its focus remained on succession planning for the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of Board.
With the assistance of external consultants the Committee Chairman who serves in a non-executive capacity and Chief led an internal and external search for candidates to succeed Executive which is set out in writing and which has been approved Simon Oliver.
Having been identified as a potential candidate, by the Board.
Anthony Fry took no part in the Committees consideration of a suitable successor for Simon Oliver.
The Committee also led Board balance a successful search process, with the assistance of external Code main principle A.
3: The board should include a balance of consultants, resulting in the appointment of Andrew Carr-Locke.
executive and non-executive directors and in particular independent non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of Corporate Responsibility Committee individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Carole Piwnica.
The Committee, whose other members are Anthony Fry, As at the date of this report, the Board comprises three Executive Howard Mann, Neil Monnery, Andrew Carr-Locke, Mark Allen, Directors and four Non-executive Directors excluding the Arthur Reeves Director of External Affairs, Rob Tansey Group Chairman.
Anthony Fry is Non-executive Chairman and Mark Allen, Human Resources Director and Robin Miller Company Secretary Chief Executive: Alastair Murray, Group Finance Director: Martyn & General Counsel, oversees the Groups corporate responsibility Wilks, Executive Managing Director Foods : Andrew Carr-Locke, programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental Non-executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee: risks are identified, assessed and prioritised accordingly.
Mark Howard Mann, Non-executive Director and Senior Independent Allen, Arthur Reeves, Rob Tansey and Robin Miller were appointed Director and chairman of the Nomination Committee: Neil Monnery, to the Committee on 28 January 2010.
Until his resignation from Non-executive Director and chairman of the Remuneration the Board on 1 August 2009, David Richardson was a member of Committee: and Carole Piwnica, Non-executive Director and the Committee.
Terms of reference for the Committee are available chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
on request and are published on the Groups website.
Details of the Committees activities during 2009 10 are set out in the Biographies of each of the current Directors, their responsibilities Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 31 to 33. and principal Board Committee memberships can be found on pages 10 and 11.
Management Board The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which During 2009 10, all the Non-executive Directors including comprises the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary the Chairman confirmed to the Board that they had sufficient & General Counsel and the Group Human Resources Director.
time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and, should Other senior executives, such as the Director of Group Financial any individuals position change, that they would inform the Control and Director of Corporate Development attend by invitation.
Details of the Chairmans other significant professional The Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, commitments are included in his biography page 11. for implementing the Groups strategic direction, monitoring the performance of the business and its control procedures on a dayThe Board considers all the Non-executive Directors to be to-day basis.
Anthony Fry was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman.
The Code states that the test of Governance 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after Following completion of a self-assessment questionnaire by his appointment.
each Director, the Chairman meets with them individually to appraise their performance and effectiveness and to identify any Appointments to the Board training requirements.
4: There should be a formal, rigorous and Each Director completes a questionnaire appraising the transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the Chairmans performance.
Using the output from the completed board.
questionnaires the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet in the absence of the Chairman to Appointments to the Board and its Committees are reserved evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent for the Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination Director then meets with the Chairman to discuss the outcome Committee.
The appointment and removal of the Company of the evaluation of his performance, following which the whole Secretary is a matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
Board considers the Chairmans performance with him.
The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other Information and professional development Executive Directors with regard to their management and Code main principle A.
5: The board should be supplied in a timely operational responsibilities in accordance with the Companys manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate normal performance and development review procedures.
to enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive Having dealt with individual Directors performance, the induction on joining the board and should regularly update and Board collectively considers the output of the evaluation refresh their skills and knowledge.
questionnaires in so far as they relate to the effectiveness of the Board in general and its Committees.
Under the Chairmans stewardship the Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters and ensures Board The Boards evaluation of individual Director and Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations performance for 2009 10 was conducted in March 2010.
accordance with its normal practice each Director completed individual self-assessment, Board and Committee evaluation and The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a Chairmans performance assessment questionnaires.
As the comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
Andrew Chairman had only been appointed to that role effective 1 January Carr-Lockes induction programme included visits to a number of 2010, in a departure from normal practice, the Board decided that the Groups main operating sites Foston, Nuneaton, Crudgington, a collective review of performance in 2009 10 would be the most Severnside, Frome and Davidstow.
He visited the Groups milk effective and appropriate evaluation method.
The Board focused delivery depot at Purley South East London and undertook a on a review of Board practices, focus, efficiency and effectiveness milk round accompanying a milkman based there.
He also met and activity for the coming year, as well as how Anthony Fry with management and staff representing a cross section of the could best add value to the Board and Group in his new role as business including at the Groups Aldershot offices Household Chairman.
The performance evaluation process showed that Board Division and at the Groups head office in Esher.
Particularly in light processes and frequency of meetings were satisfactory, that the of his appointment as chairman of the Audit Committee, he also level of information provided was good and that Board relationships met with the Group Finance Director, Director of Group Financial were strong with open debate on all subjects.
The Board was Control, Head of Group Internal Audit and the Ernst & Young LLP satisfied that its Committees operated effectively but could be engagement partner.
further enhanced by tailoring the composition of certain of them.
In the case of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, membership Directors variously receive independent training on technical has been extended to include the Chief Executive and senior accounting and other governance related matters from professional executives.
service providers and institutions and bulletins from the Group on developments in the dairy sector generally.
Through meetings Re-election and presentations by management below Board level and visits Code main principle A.
7: All directors should be submitted for to operational sites, the Directors keep abreast with the Groups re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory business.
The board should ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.
All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and The current Articles require that all Directors are subject to election the Secretary.
They all receive from the Company Secretariat a regular by shareholders at the first AGM following appointment and report on corporate governance issues.
There are also procedures thereafter to re-election at least every three years.
Details of the in place enabling Directors in the furtherance of their duties to seek Directors retiring and standing for re-election at the 2010 AGM are independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
set out at page 46 in the Directors report.
Performance evaluation The contribution that each of the candidates seeking re-election Code main principle A.
6: The board should undertake a formal and by shareholders makes to the Group was evaluated by the Board.
rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Having regard to the roles that they perform and individual input committees and individual directors.
and contribution they make, the Board concluded that each candidates performance more than justified nomination for reThe Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Directors election by shareholders.
performance, its own performance and that of its Committees.
The evaluation process, designed to improve the Boards effectiveness, is normally conducted as follows: Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 51 Risk management and internal controls operates and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities Code main principle C. 2: The board should maintain a sound which conform to Group policies and procedures.
system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented to Introduction and approved by the Board which includes consideration of The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system the major business and financial risks, an assessment of the of internal control and risk management.
The schedule of written likelihood of crystallisation and actions in place to mitigate these matters reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are risks.
Each Division is required to report monthly to the Board responsible for the control of, amongst other matters, all significant on financial performance.
Monthly financial information includes strategic, financial and organisational risks.
trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by business Division with comparison against prior year and An overview of some of the principal risks surrounding the Group budget.
Each Division periodically reassesses its forecast for the is set out at pages 16 to 17 which are incorporated by reference financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to the into the Directors Report.
To manage these and other commercial Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three and operational risks the Group has an established programme that years and includes consideration of current and likely future assists management throughout the Group to identify, assess and strategic, operational and market environment matters.
The mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks on a Audit Committee with input from the Groups Internal Auditors continuous basis.
The Board views management of risk as integral exercises oversight over the Groups control processes to good business practice.
The programme is designed to support designed to ensure the integrity of internal and external managements decision making and to improve the reliability of financial reporting.
The use of a standard accounting manual business performance.
by finance teams throughout the Group and a robust system of monthly reconciliation and review ensures that transactions Internal controls and balances are recognised and measured in accordance The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system with prescribed accounting policies and that information is of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting effectiveness to support its strategy and objectives.
The use of a standard general ledger structure and of internal control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, one chart of accounts ensures that information is gathered and evaluating and seeking to manage key risks and includes the presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of preparation and refreshment of divisional risk registers and the the consolidated financial statements.
Group risk register together with appropriate risk mitigation activities along with the other risk management processes set out Accounts Reviews the performance of each business at pages 16 to 17.
The systems of internal control were in place Division and its management of the risks related to it are throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual reviewed monthly by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Report and financial statements.
The effectiveness of these systems Director, Executive Managing Director Foods, Director of has been periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Group Financial Control, External Affairs Director and other Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on senior managers in Accounts Review meetings.
Amongst Internal Control revised October 2005. other matters the review includes a detailed analysis of each Divisions key risks and plans for mitigation as well as the Control systems continued appropriateness of those risks.
As part of the continual The main components of the organisation for internal control are risk management cycle, additional key risks together with plans summarised below.
Their foundation is in the considerable value for mitigation are, as appropriate, added to each Divisions risk that the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking to register.
Divisional risk registers are further summarised into a ensure that employees are of the highest quality and integrity.
Group risk register which is reviewed by the Board.
Formal control is exercised through a management structure, which includes clear lines of responsibility and documented Business Division reviews on a quarterly basis, each delegations of authority from the Board.
Processes underpinning business Division is required to complete a self-assessment the financial reporting systems are managed and monitored by line controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business and functional management and regular reporting.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the effectiveness of these internal controls is reviewed by an Internal Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit Audit function that operates on a Group wide basis.
It reports its reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action results to the executive management team and directly to the Audit plans.
They also receive reports from the external auditor on Committee.
These controls and processes have been in place for the conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Control of significant risks As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of On Internal Control revised October 2005, to identify, evaluate responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral year the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups risk register and written presentations to maintain control over strategic, process and endorsed the process described here and on pages financial, operational and compliance matters.
The Management 16 to 17 which is intended to ensure a continual appraisal and Board is responsible for monitoring financial performance, re-appraisal of risk, the on-going relevance of the Groups risk assessing capital expenditure proposals, agreeing media registers and that they are embedded in the Group as an everyspend, senior management appointments and embedding risk day tool for the management of risk.
This process, approved by management and controls in the Group.
The Managing Director the Board following review by the Audit Committee, includes the of each Division, in conjunction with senior management, consideration of Divisional and Group registers identifying and Governance 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued evaluating the significant Divisional and Group risks and related Audit Committee activity financial, operational and compliance controls.
With oversight from During 2009 10, the Committees work schedule embraced the the Board and Audit Committee which uses the services of the Code requirements to: Group Internal Audit function, individual members of the Groups senior management team are responsible for the ownership and Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, mitigation of significant risks.
The Audit Committee, the Board, the and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial Management Board and senior management in Accounts Reviews performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting regularly review the identified risks, changes in their status and the judgements and any disclosures contained in them.
composition of the Groups risk matrix.
Review the Companys internal financial controls and its internal control and risk management systems and to make Function of controls recommendations to the Board.
During the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Groups system of internal control.
The systems of internal control Audit function.
are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the or breaches of laws and regulations.
The Groups systems of risk external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of management and control have been used in the process for the engagement of the external auditor.
preparation of the consolidated Accounts.
Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking Report of the Audit Committee into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory Code main principle C. 3: The board should establish formal requirements.
and transparent arrangements for considering how they should Review the Groups policy on the engagement of the external apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board, for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or auditors.
improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
Members Details of the members of the Committee are set out at page 48 The Committees work during the period and up to the date of this with details of their attendance at meetings during the year being report included: set out in the table at page 11.
Reviewing the Interim Financial Statements, Preliminary Terms of reference Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to The Audit Committees terms of reference available on request their submission to the Board.
In doing so it took into account and published on the Groups website comply with the Code.
the external Auditors view and considered reports from In March 2010 the Audit Committee reviewed and refreshed financial management and Group Internal Audit.
its terms of reference including, amongst other matters, their Reviewing significant accounting policies, financial reporting continued compliance with the requirements of the Code, the issues and judgements used in the preparation of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control October 2005 and the Companys Preliminary Announcement and Interim and Final Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees 2008. financial statements.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee is responsible for Reviewing managements Letters of Representation in providing advice to the Board on the Groups interim and financial connection with the Companys financial statements and the statements: on accounting policies and on the control of its Auditors Management Letter.
financial and business risks as well as reviewing the work of the Reviewing areas where control weaknesses had been identified internal and external auditors.
by Group Internal Audit or the external Auditor and monitoring the mitigation and remediation plans of management.
Frequency of meetings Reviewing the regular reports of the external Auditor including The Audit Committee met four times in 2009 10.
The chairman the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
of the Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the Receiving and reviewing regular reports from the Groups Committee and any significant issues that may have arisen at the Internal Audit function.
Board meeting following each Committee meeting.
Approving the external audit plan including audit scope, level of materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement, the Attendees at meetings seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team, The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman and and satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of other senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation the plan.
Representatives of the Groups external auditor Evaluating the performance of the external Auditor and and the head of Group Internal Audit also attend these meetings satisfying itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
In 2009 10, the external and internal auditors attended Reviewing the Groups risk management processes and all meetings, had direct access to the Committee during the controls: and their effectiveness.
meetings and time was also set aside for them to have private Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups whistle blowing discussions jointly and independently with the Committee, in the procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate absence of management.
investigation and suitable follow up actions.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 53 External auditor inspections of the audit practices of the nine accounting firms who The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with are subject to full scope inspections by the Audit Inspection Unit, the external Auditor.
During the year, the Committee: Taking into account the Audit Inspection Units findings as well as the output of the Committees review of the external Auditors Approved the Audit Engagement Letters and fee proposal, and independence and objectivity, and, the effectiveness of the audit satisfied itself as to the Auditors ability to conduct an effective process, which it commenced at its March 2010 meeting, together audit for such fee.
with other relevant review processes conducted throughout the Reviewed and assessed the external Auditors independence year, the Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys regulatory requirements.
In doing so the Committee reviewed and Groups external Auditor at the AGM on 20 July 2010. the external Auditors own policies and procedures to safeguard its objectivity, independence and integrity together with its Communication with investors representations as to independence.
The Committee received Code main principle D. 1: There should be a dialogue with assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The external Auditors reward and remuneration structure includes board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory no incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell nondialogue with shareholders takes place.
audit services to audit clients.
Approved the annual Audit Plan and ensured that it was The Group believes it is important to explain business consistent with the scope of the Audit Engagement.
developments and financial results to its shareholders and Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any to understand any shareholder concerns, and that suitable major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements arrangements are in place to ensure a balanced understanding of and the internal control reports including responses from the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Chief Executive management and any proposed remedial action.
and Group Finance Director have primary responsibility for investor Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the external relations.
They are supported by the Companys External Affairs Auditor.
Director who, among other matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional investors and holds meetings with key Internal audit function institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, financial performance The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its and investment activities immediately after the full year and interim responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans results announcements.
Slide presentations made to institutional of the Group Internal Audit function.
In doing so, the Committee: shareholders are also available on the Companys website.
All the Non-executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major progress against it throughout the year.
shareholders, if such meetings are required.
Further financial and Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
business information is available on the Investor Centre section of Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function the Companys website.
Reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the findings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
Board to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced Reviewed a report from the head of Group Internal Audit on risk understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, Reviewed Group Internal Audits charter dealing with that regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance functions role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic organisational independence and assessment.
reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback Reviewed and endorsed a proposal for independent review of from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders Reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP is through the Annual Report and Interim Statement, the AGM and Ernst & Young LLP was first appointed as external Auditor to the through the Companys website.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Company with regard to its appointment.
The Audit Committee has Annual general meeting not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require Code main principle D. 2: The board should use the AGM to the firm competitively to tender for the audit work.
In the light of communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
the assessments and review undertaken and having considered a recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM LLP as the Companys and Groups external Auditor, the Board to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
endorsed the Committees recommendation which was approved Arrangements are made for all Executive Directors, the Chairman, by shareholders in July 2009. the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the remaining Non-executive Directors and the chairmen of Board Committees At its meeting in May 2010, the Audit Committee considered the to attend the AGM and to be available to answer shareholders appropriateness of the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as questions.
All Directors attended the AGM in July 2009.
Notice the Groups external Auditor for the 2010 11 year.
In doing so it of the AGM is, in accordance with the applicable Companies Act reviewed the public report on the 2008 09 inspection of Ernst & and the Articles, either posted in hard copy to shareholders or Young LLP published by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial posted on the Companys website at least 21 days before the Reporting Council, and the report of the Audit Inspection Unit of date of the AGM.
Resolutions are proposed for each substantially the Financial Reporting Council following its 2008 09 audit quality separate issue and details of the proxy voting on each resolution Governance
