daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Corporate governanCe the Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
the paragraphs below and in the remuneration report on pages 47 to 62 describe how the board has applied the principles set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by the financial services authority in June 2008. the Code is part of the listing rules and applied to the Company throughout the year.
in may, the financial reporting Council revised the Code, publishing the uK Corporate governance Code the revised Code.
the revised Code is not applicable to the Company in the year under review, but the Company has begun the process of reviewing its procedures to enable the board to report, as required, under the revised Code in the year beginning 4th october, 2010. the Company has substantially complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the year, except where the board has determined that they are inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company.
the areas in which the Company has not applied the Code during the year essentially arise from the composition of the board and are summarised as follows: provision area details of non-compliance and mitigating circumstances a1.3 board evaluation the non-executive directors did not meet as a group without the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
a3.2 Composition less than half of the board are independent non-executive directors.
of the board a3.3 Composition the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director of the board since it believes that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body as this board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
a4.1 Composition of the nominations independent non-executive directors do not comprise a majority of the Committee Committees members since mr balsemo is the only independent nonexecutive director appointed.
nevertheless, the board believes that the Committee operates well.
a7.2 re-election mr hemingway is a non-executive director who has served for more than nine of directors years but was not subject to annual re-election.
the board did not adopt the provision in the Code that non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years should be subject to annual re-election on the grounds that its practice complied with Company law and with the articles and worked well.
it has decided, however, to adopt the provision in the revised Code that all directors should seek annual re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
b1.6 service contracts and the service contracts of messrs morgan and dacre exceed the one year compensation recommended in the Code, but will both reduce to one year over the next two years.
the explanation is given in the remuneration report on page 61. b2.1 Composition the Committee comprises one independent non-executive director, rather of the remuneration Committee than two as set out in the Code.
C3.1 Composition the Committee comprises two independent non-executive directors rather of the audit Committee than three as set out in the Code.
in addition, the Chairman was not independent on appointment Code provision a2.2.
the division of responsibilities between approves the groups strategy.
its the board the executive Chairman and the Chief specific responsibilities are set out in the Company is headed by a board executive is understood and works well.
a schedule of matters reserved to which comprises a balance of seven the Chairmans role is to lead the board the board which is published on the executive directors, including the and oversee the Companys operations Companys website at www.
co. Chairman and Chief executive, and strategy.
the Chief executives role uk corporate governance.
is to manage the Company, develop the board met six times during the biographical details of each of the strategy and ensure its successful 2009 10 financial year, which were directors are set out on page 37. implementation.
attended by all directors, except that the board has been progressively the board normally meets regularly five messrs fallon, dunstone and balsemo refreshed in recent years with several times a year and at such other times as were each unable to attend one of appointments, including four new are necessary.
individual attendance by independent directors.
directors is set out on page 43.
42 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report number of eleCtion and re-eleCtion investment and finanCe meetings number of Committee the Companys new articles of eligible to meetings attend attended association, adopted in february 2010, in June, the board also established require that a director appointed by a new investment and finance executive directors the board must stand for election at Committee in place of the existing the next annual general meeting.
this Committee the viscount 6 6 rothermere thereafter all directors are subject to works alongside the dmgt leadership re-election at least every three years.
team, established in 2009, with the m W h morgan 6 6 the board has decided, however, to objective of improving investment J p Williams 6 6 adopt the provision in the revised decision making and group strategy d m m dutton 6 6 Code that all directors should seek development.
the Committee p m dacre 6 6 annual re-election.
comprises the viscount rothermere p m fallon 6 5 its chairman and messrs morgan, the terms and conditions of K J beatty 6 6 Williams, dutton, hemingway and appointment of the non-executive nelson.
the deputy finance director, directors are available for inspection at non-executive non-independent directors mr perry, is secretary to the Committee.
the registered office of the Company J g hemingway 6 6 the director of strategy development, during usual business hours.
ms fitzgerald, attends meetings at the t s gillespie 6 6 invitation of the Committee.
it held its d h nelson 6 6 board evaluation first meeting in september which was the board has undertaken its annual attended by all of its members.
independent non-executive directors evaluation of its own performance and the basis on which the Company C W dunstone 6 5 that of its individual directors.
it reviewed generates value over the longer term f p balsemo 6 5 its performance by reference to the and the strategy for delivering its d J verey 6 6 schedule of matters reserved for it.
the objectives are set out in the Chief n W berry 6 6 evaluation process took the form of a executives review on pages 4 to 13. questionnaire sent to each director, the board believes that four nonseeking their views on progress made Company seCretary executive directors may be considered on vision and strategy: the handling of to be independent under the Code, strategy by the board: the structure of the Company secretary, mr Jennings, namely messrs dunstone, balsemo, board meetings, quality of papers and is responsible for advising the board verey and berry.
communications: areas of operations through the Chairman on all presented: balance of skills: governance issues.
all directors have messrs hemingway and gillespie are consideration of directors views: and access to the advice and services of not regarded by the board as solicited other comments.
independent under the Code because Chairman reported the consensus view they have advised the Company over on performance to the board at its nominations Committee many years: nor is mr nelson because meeting in september, enabling it to he is an advisor to the Chairman.
the nominations Committee conclude that it had been effective in nevertheless, the board believes that comprises three directors: the the year under review.
no changes to these non-executive directors make viscount rothermere its chairman, procedures were judged necessary.
an important contribution to its mr hemingway and mr balsemo.
deliberations and have invaluable mr perry, is secretary to the Committee.
board Committees experience of the Company, its business the Chief executive and the hr director and its staff.
the board has established nominations, attend most meetings at the invitation remuneration, audit, risk and of the Committee.
information and professional Corporate social responsibility the Committee met four times during development Committees with mandates to deal the year and all meetings were with specific aspects of its business.
procedures have been established to attended by all serving members.
the remits of these committees are ensure that the board receives timely individual attendance by members is published on the Companys website and appropriate information both for its set out below: at www.
details of the meetings and regularly between membership of these committees are number of meetings.
all directors are offered such meetings number of given on pages 43 to 45. each training as is considered necessary, eligible to meetings committee reports to the board at both on appointment and at any attend attended every regular meeting.
there is an agreed the viscount 4 4 the board carried out a review of the procedure for directors to take rothermere performance of its committees and independent professional advice at the J g hemingway 4 4 concluded that they had been Companys expense, if necessary.
f p balsemo 4 4 effective in the year.
43 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Corporate governanCe Continued the Committee reviews the structure, information systems operated across internal Controls and size and composition of the board and the group.
this is supported by a management of risK makes recommendations to the board framework of budgets that are the board has overall responsibility for on any changes.
during the year it approved at a divisional level by the the groups system of internal control.
nominated mr daintith to succeed to investment and finance Committee.
this system is designed to provide mr Williams as finance director in variance analysis of actual results reasonable assurance of the march 2011, following the decision of versus budget and forecast is safeguarding of assets and mr Williams to retire in 2011. the undertaken regularly throughout shareholders investment and the Committee determined, from his the year.
experience as Chief operating officer the group now maintains a detailed any such system can, however, provide and Chief financial officer Cfo of accounting and treasury manual and only reasonable, and not absolute, dow Jones based in new york from april guidance is issued from the centre.
the 2008 and previously as Cfo of news Where applicable, divisions maintain directors confirm that they have international that mr daintith was a top their own manuals.
reviewed the effectiveness of the class executive with extensive consumer groups system of internal control for in reviewing the effectiveness of the and business-to-business experience the period up to the date of the system of internal control, the board and hence has the right balance of approval of the accounts.
the board has considered material controls skills, knowledge and experience, has not identified any significant failings including those undertaken through needed for the board.
external advice or weaknesses during this review.
its committees, including financial, was taken, but advertising was not operational and compliance controls required in this instance.
the group adopts a prudent risk and risk management systems as strategy, weighing opportunities for the Committee continued to review follows: the central risk and assurance potential gain against threats to overall succession planning for both executive function carries out internal audit business objectives and profitability.
it also activities across the group.
it operates senior management addresses the assessed the most appropriate method under an internal audit charter which opportunities and uncertainties relating of evaluating directors performance covers: the purposes and objectives of to the business activities of the group.
which was by board questionnaire.
the groups internal audit function: its the risk management process consists authority and scope: independence of the identification, evaluation and relations With shareholders issues: standards of professional control of risks, which could threaten the Company maintains a regular practice, performance monitoring, the achievement of the groups programme of contact with its planning and reporting.
the strategic, operational and financial institutional shareholders.
in the past department also co-ordinates with a objectives, as well as the active year, this has included meetings in number of the divisions who undertake management of opportunities.
the london, scotland, spain, switzerland, control reviews on companies within processes described below were in germany and the usa.
following each review, place throughout the year.
a formal report is issued to divisional non-executive directors are kept the group operates on a divisional management with the audit findings informed of the views of institutional basis with each of the divisions and managements response.
at each shareholders by the regular distribution described on pages 14 and 15 of the audit Committee meeting, the head of of analysts reports and feedback is annual report having considerable risk and assurance, mr ashby, reports provided from institutional meetings.
autonomy as regards its operation and on the internal audit activity across the establishment of control systems.
all shareholders are welcome to attend group, including progress against overseeing the divisional structure is the annual general meeting, of which completion of the annual assurance a central management responsible 20 working days notice is given, where plan and a summary of the findings to the board.
Certain functions are they have the opportunity to speak of assurance reviews undertaken.
undertaken centrally, notably newsprint to directors.
buying, insurance, treasury, tax, risK Committee in the interests of transparency and pensions, and risk and assurance to assist private shareholders, the the risk Committee gives the board including internal audit.
Company posts all announcements assurance on risk management issues and general presentations given to operating businesses within the group and processes.
the process for the are required to confirm annually their analysts and institutions on its corporate management of significant risks is website.
shareholders and others compliance with group accounting undertaken by the risk Committee and policies and financial reporting interested in the group are encouraged it accords with the turnbull guidance to use the site and to email questions guidelines.
on internal control, appended to the which they might have to investor.
over the course of the past year divisional and subsidiary company relations@dmgt.
Questions to the risk Committee has considered the boards regularly review relevant and particular directors should be key risks pertaining to all divisions and timely financial information that is addressed through the secretary.
head office functions within the produced from the management business as well as the key risks which affect the group, including fraud risk.
44 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report the Committee comprises messrs bribery act, exposure to public sector the Committee also considers morgan, its chairman, Williams, dutton, spending cuts: health and safety, fraud, significant financial reporting issues, verey, Kass, the legal director of a&n information security: and again on approves any changes to group media and mr page, its deputy finance business continuity and disaster accounting policies and reviews a director and former secretary to the recovery planning.
in addition, the summary of recommendation letters Committee.
mr page became a Committee aimed at ensuring that the to management prepared by the member in september.
mr verey business conduct of its employees is groups external auditors following provides a non-executive perspective appropriate to, and in accordance their audit procedures.
to the review of risk management with, the groups values and ethics.
the the Committee comprises four nonprocesses within the group, as well Committee also monitors developments executive directors: messrs verey, its as providing a direct link to the in relevant legislation and regulations to chairman, hemingway, berry and audit Committee.
consider the impact these might have nelson.
the Code recommends that an on the group and on its system of the Committee met four times during audit committee should comprise at internal control.
the year and all meetings were least three members, all of whom attended by all serving members, members of the risk Committee also should be independent non-executive except that mr Williams was unable maintain direct links with each of the directors.
only messrs verey and berry to attend one of them.
individual main divisions through attendance at are considered to be independent attendance by members is set divisional board meetings as directors under the Code.
the Committee reports board believes that the Committee to the board after each of its meetings operates independently.
members number of to assist the board in its determination of qualifications are set out in their meetings number of the overall effectiveness of the system biographies on page 37. the board is eligible to meetings attend attended of internal control and risk satisfied that mr nelson, senior partner mWh morgan 4 4 management more widely.
of a firm of chartered accountants, and mr verey, the Committee Jp Williams 4 3 audit Committee chairman, have recent and relevant d m m dutton 4 4 financial experience.
the Company h Kass 4 4 the audit Committee, on behalf of the secretary, mr Jennings, also a board, has responsibility for the review dJ verey 4 4 Chartered accountant, is secretary of financial risk management and of m J page 1 1 to the Committee.
internal financial controls, as these directly relate to the quality of financial the audit Committee met four times in may, mr ashby was appointed reporting.
in addition, the Committee is during the year and all meetings were secretary to the Committee when he mandated to: attended by all serving members, as set assumed responsibility for the groups out below: risk function in addition to his existing review all public financial statements responsibilities for internal audit.
of the Company and of the group, number of including the half year and annual meetings number of the risk Committee considers risk eligible to meetings financial statements, before such registers prepared by each of the attend attended statements are submitted to divisions of the group and by central d J verey 4 4 the board: functions, on a rotational basis, in J g hemingway 4 4 general reviewing a division and consider any appointment of n W berry 4 4 central function at each meeting.
these external auditors to group d h nelson 4 4 reports identify inherent strategic and companies, to review audit fees and operational business risks and describe to consider any questions of the finance director attends all the controls in place to manage resignation or dismissal of auditors: meetings and the Chief executive most those risks.
monitor and review the resources the Committee also oversees the and effectiveness of internal audit the Committee has implemented the quality and formality of risk including approval of the procedures set out in the smith management processes across the appointment and removal of the guidance to the Code which are within group by embedding the dmgt risk head of assurance : its control.
it reviews the groups policy management model into the operating on whistle blowing.
agree the internal audit programme divisions.
the Committee considers the for the forthcoming year: and in addition, the Committee has primary group risk register a consolidation of responsibility for making a to consider a summary of group divisional and central function risk recommendation to the board on the registers with group-wide risks overlaid internal audit reports and such appointment, reappointment and individual reports as the Committee annually.
in addition, the Committee removal of the external auditors, reviews specific risk management issues sees fit and managements response together with approval of their to any recommendations, and to and topics for consideration across the group.
this year the Committee has monitor the progress of any required actions.
focused on the following risks: the uK 45 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 Corporate governanCe Continued remuneration.
as part of its role in procedures exist to monitor the euromoney institutional investor plc is ensuring the effectiveness of the audit independence of the external auditors subject to the requirements of the Code process, the Committee also and include a policy on employment of in its own right.
as disclosed in its latest undertakes an annual assessment of former audit principals.
there is also a annual report, it has in place its own the qualifications, expertise and policy on the provision of non-audit system of internal control and risk resources of the external auditors.
services with which the groups head management processes which forms office and each division complies.
the part of the groups overall framework of the appointment of deloitte llp as the choice of firm is normally determined control.
the joint ventures and groups external auditors incumbents on the basis of professional expertise associates of the group are not since the last audit tender in 2001 is and competitiveness.
the group may included in the groups system of kept under annual review, and, if engage the external auditors to internal control described opposite.
satisfactory, the Committee will perform audit-related work, recommend the reappointment of the on behalf of the board accountancy advice and corporate audit firm.
the appointment of deloitte tax services.
non-audit services in other followed a formal tender process areas are decided on their merits and undertaken in 2001 and, rather than are put out to tender where the adopting a policy on tendering N D Jennings, FCA amounts in question are significant.
the frequency, the annual review of the secretary external auditors are excluded from the effectiveness of the external audit is 3rd december, 2010 following areas: where they are supplemented by a periodic auditing their own work: where a comprehensive reassessment by the mutuality of interest is created: or where Committee.
the last such reassessment the external auditor would be put in the was performed in 2008 09, as with many role of advocate for the Company.
suppliers, when having received assurances on the continued quality of non-audit fees payable to deloitte llp the audit, the Committee determined in 2009 10 amounted to 1.2 million, to recommend the reappointment of compared to 2.3 million the previous the incumbent firm.
this reduction reflected the of the auditors is for one year only, conclusion of their involvement in the being subject to annual approval at the restructuring of northcliffe media.
Companys agm, there is no during the year, the Committee contractual commitment to the current received reports from management on audit firm and, as such, the Committee the status of the finance systems within may undertake an audit tender at any a&n media, ongoing concern and on time at its discretion.
developments in international financial in performing its review, the Committee reporting standards.
evaluated the adequacy of the audit the Committee also reviewed the firms key processes and controls in annual internal audit plan, summaries certain key areas including, but not of reports received and reviewed the limited to: effectiveness and resources of the arrangements for ensuring groups internal audit function.
in independence and objectivity, september, it carried out an annual including the rotation of key review of its terms of reference and of its audit partners: effectiveness and concluded that it did not need to recommend to the board appropriateness of the planned any substantive changes to its remit or audit scope and its execution: operations.
in september, the board the robustness and perceptiveness conducted its own review of the of the auditors in their handling of Committees performance and the key accounting and audit confirmed that the Committee had judgments: and fulfilled its obligations and been effective in the year under review.
the quality of their reporting.
