SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance Corporate governance combined code The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2008 www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they items specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
complies in full with the terms of the Code.
The process for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the directors Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital Executive Director and five Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
The five Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Other matters reserved to the Board include: independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors l Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
Andrew l Remuneration: Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The Groups framework of executive remuneration and Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant.
He is considered to have its cost in the light of recommendations made by the recent and relevant financial experience.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is l Senior management succession plans and the overall direction satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Non-Executive of management development.
The Executive Directors do not hold any l Pension schemes.
non-executive directorships in other companies.
l The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 38.
Copies of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the code by providing that all Directors are required to The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the submit themselves for re-appointment at least once every three years.
Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
26 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
