CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys Board of Directors shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are Composition of the Board responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
Following the departure of Philip Nolan 23 July 2009 and Keith Hodgkinson 31 December 2009 and the appointment of Sir Julian The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards Horn-Smith 1 September 2009 and Victoria Jarman 22 April 2010 of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, the Board comprises five independent non-executive Directors, the controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue non-executive Chairman and two executive Directors.
The Board Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with has concluded that its composition throughout the year was and the required standards of accountability and probity.
The Groups corporate governance procedures, which are approved There is a clear division between the management of the Board by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, the terms and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the Groups of reference of various Committees of the Board and the functions business.
However, no individual or small group can dominate delegated to these Committees as well as defining the jobs of decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its for the working and leadership of the Board.
The Chief Executive corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined is responsible for running the business and implementing Board Code, legislation or good practice.
Revisions were made in strategy and policy.
The Directors biographies appear on page 37 and the Boards The Board also approves the Code of Conduct which defines the policy is that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept Groups business principles and which was updated in September appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior 2007.
This is discussed further in this section of the Annual Report approval of the Board and that non-executive Directors must seek and in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 32.
These the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board documents are set out on the Groups website www.
before accepting additional commitments that may affect the In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, time they devote to their role.
the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Board changes evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, operational During the year there were several changes of Directors and roles.
and compliance controls and risk management systems.
This Gill Rider temporarily stood down from the Board from 26 February process has been in place throughout the year and up to the 2009 until 30 June 2009 whilst the award of the contract for the UK date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
passport was being considered by the Identity and Passport Service.
The Boards governance policies include a process for the Board Philip Nolan resigned as a Director at the conclusion of the 2009 to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control Annual General Meeting AGM and Keith Hodgkinson resigned and risk management systems, and the Board concluded its latest as a Director on 31 December 2009.
Sir Julian Horn-Smith was review in April 2010.
Details are set out in this Statement.
This appointed non-executive Director on 1 September 2009.
Sir Jeremy does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures such Greenstock became senior independent non-executive Director on as Camelot Group plc where the Group does not have 1 January 2010.
Victoria Jarman was appointed non-executive management control.
Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code Simon Webb became Group Finance Director and an executive on Corporate Governance Director of the Board on 1 April 2009.
The Company announced In the year to 27 March 2010 the Company has complied on 30 April 2010 the appointment of Colin Child as Group throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of the Finance Director and as an executive Director of the Company Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June with effect from 1 June 2010.
Simon Webb will leave the Board 2008 the Code except arguably for a brief period following the on 31 May 2010. retirement of Keith Hodgkinson on 31 December 2009 in respect of the composition of the Audit Committee provision C. 3.1.
The Audit The non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which Committee Chairman is the chief executive of a listed company and will be displayed at the AGM, together with the executive Directors the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee service contracts and Directors indemnification agreements.
recently recruited a non-executive Director, Victoria Jarman, with Sir Julian Horn-Smith and Victoria Jarman who were appointed financial expertise who is a member of the Audit Committee.
Keith Directors since the last AGM, and Colin Child, who will be appointed Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board during the year, ceased on 1 June 2010, will, being eligible, offer themselves for election at to be viewed as independent having served nine years on the the AGM.
The Board adopted the policy during the year that each Board from the date of his first election.
Director be required to submit himself for annual re-election and accordingly all other Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 37 and the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors of the Company.
Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association and any directions given by special resolution, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Edward Peppiatt replaced Louise Fluker as Company Secretary on 1 April 2009.
42 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Succession planning The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing the eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute skills profile, type and number of non-executive Directors required to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the enable the Board to perform effectively.
It also reviews the Groups processes and controls are set out below.
The Board reviews internal talent review process in planning executive Director and matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in senior management succession.
achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports and Objectives of the Board presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing The Board has confirmed its objectives during 2009 2010 as follows: directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board Delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes are circulated as soon as possible thereafter.
The Board reviews Maintaining the Groups reputation for integrity as the foundation progress on implementing actions arising from the Board and of its relationship with stakeholders its Committee meetings each month.
Building long term success through quality and sound There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters management between Board meetings.
Role and operation of the Board Any Director can request additional information from management at The Board has a programme of fixed meetings during the year any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services and it also met on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Boards core of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who is responsible procedures are: for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides Set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
and Directors Board evaluation and effectiveness review The control of risk through agreed evaluation and control The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit procedures reviewed and revised annually Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The Monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination process involved completion of questionnaires which focused Committee on process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and its control of the Group.
Full details are set out on the Groups addressing any issues identified during the previous review or which website www.
These include: became relevant during the year.
Determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those The Chairman and each Committee Chairman had discussions of the Chairman and Chief Executive with each Director or Committee member based on the responses and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the Board Approving internal control processes or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors performance.
Approving the final and interim Financial Statements and The senior independent non-executive Director was responsible in conjunction with the Audit Committee the recommendation for appraising the Chairmans performance in discussions with the of dividends non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors also met in the absence Approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board and of the executive Directors.
The results were discussed by the Board the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees and individual Committees and the final report highlighting any areas Approving the Groups strategy and annual budget for improvement agreed by the Board in May 2010.
Authorisation of authority levels, financial and treasury policies Conflicts of interests and any acquisition or disposal Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief unless that conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The Chief Executive manages the Groups day to day may arise by reason of a situation or a specific transaction proposed.
activities and presents to the Board the strategic options for growth The Board has established a process to review at least annually and in shareholder value and, in conjunction with the Operating Board if thought appropriate authorise any conflict of interest and has comprising business unit managing directors and other senior carried out such review and authorised all Directors situational executives, sets the operating plans and budgets required to deliver conflicts.
Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise.
The role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, senior independent Indemnity non-executive Director and other Directors are also clearly defined.
To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Full details are set out on the Groups website www.
UKLA Listing Rules the Company indemnifies certain officers so The executive Directors and the Operating Board operate within that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory clearly defined limits of authority delegated by the Board.
proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably determine but any advance must be refunded if the Director or officer is The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework of subsequently convicted.
prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
These are The indemnity will not provide cover where the Director or officer required to identify and manage the risks and their potential effect has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
whilst ensuring that material changes are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings Induction and training The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, for meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including key financial Directors Attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration data, and business, social and environmental risks to the Groups 2009 2010 Committee Board Committee Committee activities, corporate governance matters such as the role of the Number of Board and individual Committees, and the Companys corporate meetings held 4 14 67 governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They are advised Mr N K Brookes 14 67 on the duties and obligations of Directors of a listed company.
Site Mr D W A East 4 11 4 visits and meetings with senior management are also arranged.
Any Sir Jeremy Greenstock 12 67 newly appointed Director, who has not previously been a Director of Mr K H Hodgkinson a listed company, is invited to attend external training covering such resigned 31 December 2009 49 44 duties and responsibilities.
Directors are briefed, where appropriate, Mr J A Hussey 14 6 by the Companys internal and external advisers, on changes to Dr P M G Nolan legislation, regulation or market practice, as well as receiving resigned 23 July 2009 24 22 briefings from individual businesses throughout the year.
The Board Ms G Rider received specific briefing on the key issues of the Companies Act temporarily stood down 26 February 2009 and rejoined 2006 and on its implementation during the year.
The Directors, the Board 1 July 2009 29 25 especially Committee Chairmen, have the opportunity of attending Sir Julian Horn-Smith appropriate training sessions.
appointed 1 September 2009 71 3 Mr S Webb The Board visits an operational site at least annually Westhoughton, appointed 1 April 2009 14 Bolton in 2009.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and Appointed to the Nomination Committee 24 September 2009 staff.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary, in conjunction Appointed to Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees with the Chairman, ensures that there is proper communication on 24 September 2009 between the Board and its Committees and senior management and that non-executive Directors receive appropriate information.
Role of non-executive Directors The Chairman reviews and the General Counsel and Company The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Secretary facilitates induction and other professional development Board to be independent as at 27 March 2010, have an appropriate as required.
range of business, financial and international experience which is relevant to the Companys activities.
None of the non-executive Directors may take independent professional advice at the Directors holds a material shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during Brookes ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July the year.
2004 as Chairman under the Code but the Board considers that his Appointments contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions Following a decision during the year by the Board, all Directors are were fully consistent with those of an independent Director.
required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
New Directors Keith Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board on 31 December are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after 2009, ceased to be viewed as independent during the year and was their appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an succeeded by Sir Jeremy Greenstock as the senior independent initial period of two years with the expectation of three two year non-executive Director on 1 January 2010.
Shareholders may terms subject to satisfactory performance.
contact the senior independent non-executive Director if they feel The Board may invite a non-executive Director to serve a further their concerns are not being addressed through normal channels.
term after six years following a detailed review at the end of this Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment and any period, subject to re-election.
re-appointment that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation them to discharge their duties properly.
Directors who have been process, considers the performance of each of the Directors unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made known standing for election and re-election at this years AGM to be fully their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated continued commitment to the role.
The Board strongly supports their election and re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions at the AGM.
Corporate responsibility Information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to corporate responsibility can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 35.
44 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Business Ethics Nomination Committee fide La Rues reputation is based on security, integrity and trust.
The Committee consists of five independent non-executive fide La Rue has clear core values and principles which govern how Directors at the date of this report together with the Chairman the Group does business and which everyone within fide La Rue and the Chief Executive.
The way fide La Rue delivers this policy is reflected in The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as the way the Group competes for business and delivers its services, necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard focused on quality, value for money and the reliability and reputation to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or changes of its employees.
The Committee has the power to All employees are required to follow the Code of Conduct approved employ the services of such advisers as it deems necessary in order by the Board when performing their duties as employees or where to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee also reviews the time they are representing fide La Rue.
In addition all agents, sales commitment required of non-executive Directors at least once a consultants and distributors must also follow this Code of Conduct year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment and removal when they are representing fide La Rue.
of Directors and retains appropriate executive search consultants, having prepared a job specification for the particular role to be filled.
More detailed policies and procedures supplement the Code The principal activity of the Committee during 2009 2010 was of Conduct.
The main principles of the Code of Conduct are: succession planning and the recruitment of new Directors.
Compliance with the law where either employees are employed Remuneration Committee or where they carry out business on behalf of fide La Rue Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in Compliance with competition anti-trust law July 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since 26 July 2007.
She temporarily stood down from the Board Compliance with export licensing or trade embargoes on 26 February 2009.
Philip Nolan acted as Chairman of the Business dealings with customers, suppliers and third parties Committee until Gill Riders return on 1 July 2009.
Details of must be conducted honestly and with integrity the Committee and of the remuneration policy can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 53.
Avoiding conflicts of interests in any business dealings General Business Committee The policies and procedures related to the appointment and The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters management of sales agents and consultants were strengthened arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent nonduring the year in light of Lord Woolfs recommendations on the executive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration appointment and management of agents.
The Group Third Party or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than Partner Team was established and management processes and for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
tools for the appointment of Third Party Partners TPPs were upgraded to eliminate any potential inconsistencies in the area.
The Risk Committee Team also provides improved focus on training and communication The Board reviewed the terms of reference and the composition to key relevant personnel on fundamental principles regulating TPPs of the Risk Committee during the year.
Core responsibilities of and coordinates external due diligence where particular risks are the Risk Committee are to: identified.
Advice was also sought from a number of external parties Assist the Board by assessing and reporting on the effectiveness such as the Institute of Business Ethics and professional due of the Companys internal control systems for managing risks diligence suppliers with regard to best practice in this area.
Assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by providing The Company announced on 18 November 2009 that it had a framework for managing risks throughout the Group received notification from the Serious Fraud Office that it had concluded its investigation into the Company which was initiated Provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk in 2007 and that no action will be taken against any company management within the Group in the Group or against any current or former employee.
Promote awareness of internal control issues and risk Committees of the Board management The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Provide an appropriate level of reporting to the Board which General Business and Risk Committees with appointed chairmen retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal risk and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Groups website and are also The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel and Company available on request.
The Board is satisfied that the Committees Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least twice a year.
Membership of these Other members of the Committee include the Chief Executive, Committees is given in the Directors biographies on page 37.
Group Finance Director, business unit managing directors and Further details of Committees and key activities performed during the Group Director of Business Continuity.
Any Director is entitled the year are given below.
The Committee is assisted by Group-wide committees which deal with specific areas of risk such as the Health, Safety and Environment Committee and the Security Committee.
Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group are set out on pages 24 to 27. fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Audit Committee of the Board The scope and key focus of the forthcoming years audit is discussed Warren East succeeded Keith Hodgkinson as Chairman of with, and approved by, the Audit Committee.
the Audit Committee on 1 April 2009.
All members of the Audit The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services Committee are independent non-executive Directors other than the external auditor is allowed to perform on behalf of the Group Keith Hodgkinson, who retired from the Board on 31 December and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group.
2009 and who ceased to be viewed as independent having served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his first Briefly, the procedures cover: election.
Warren East is the chief executive of a listed company.
Selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee The external auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor Controller and the internal auditors Ernst & Young LLP attend each and the Group other than in the ordinary course of business meeting at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Ernst & Young Commissioning non-audit work LLP and KPMG Audit Plc each meet the Committee without executive Directors or employees of the Company being present.
Circumstances in which it is appropriate for incumbent auditors to provide non-audit work The Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial fide La Rue has procedures for procuring audit and consulting reporting processes.
Its principal responsibilities include: services from external sources as follows: The appointment of the external auditor and the agreement Audit-related services, covering regulatory and statutory reporting of terms of engagement at the start of each audit Non-audit related services, covering the nature and extent of Approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across non-audit services whilst seeking to maintain the balance between the businesses objectivity and value for money Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial The allocation of non-audit work is considered in accordance statements with the Groups policy on the engagement of external auditors and the commissioning of non-audit services.
The policy sets out Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence a pre-approved framework of services, where the auditors can apply and objectivity their existing in-depth business knowledge and skill to bring both Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups quality and efficiency benefits to the Group.
The external auditors Whistleblowing policy, details of which are set out on are prohibited from performing certain non-audit related services pages 27 and 32 including remuneration consultancy and advice and the design, development or implementation of financial information or internal During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness control systems.
However, a total prohibition on use of incumbent of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG external auditors might lead to loss of business knowledge that Audit Plcs role in performing it.
could adversely affect audit quality.
Internal audit Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent external auditors to The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal provide services, as a general principle all services must be subject financial control systems through reports received from the internal to competitive tender.
The Group Finance Director determines how audit function during the year.
The Audit Committee decided to this applies.
outsource the internal audit function entirely to Ernst & Young LLP for 2009 2010.
The internal audit function is now more aligned to Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the the risks that fide La Rue faces with outputs providing assurance Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related over selected key risks that could impact the ability of the Group services, where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, to achieve its business goals and objectives.
Internal audit acts as timescales, local resource and cost.
During 2009 2010 the amount a service to businesses by assisting with the ongoing improvement of non-audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was 0.2m and was of controls and procedures.
There is a system of internal control principally related to work performed in connection with tax reviews which includes a self-assessment programme covering assurance services.
both financial and IT controls and actions agreed are followed up The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their by management to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, to the Audit Committee on how they comply with professional and together with reports from the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
Key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit team The Group has continued to raise the profile of good internal rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality financial controls.
The fraud risk profiling programme, involving multiis maintained between different parts of the firm providing services disciplined teams, considers areas of potential risks and confirms to fide La Rue.
controls needed for key financial processes to mitigate such risks.
By order of the Board Independence of auditors The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in reporting to shareholders.
The KPMG audit Partner is present at Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The Edward Peppiatt overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually.
This activity Company Secretary also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit 24 May 2010 Committee has discussions with the auditor, without management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on judgmental areas and receives and reviews the auditors highlights reports and management letters which are one of the main outputs from the external audit.
46 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010
