Section 3 Management and Governance Corporate Governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that, throughout the year ended 28 August 2010 and as at the date of this Annual Report, it was fully compliant with the provisions of and applied the principles as set out in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further information on the Code can be found at www.
The Board The board is responsible to shareholders for the strategy and control of the Company.
In accordance with good practice there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the boards decision which is regularly reviewed and this can be found on the Companys website www.
Specic matters reserved for the boards consideration include approval of the Companys business model and strategy, the Companys financial statements, major capital expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals and changes to governance and business policies.
The board considers at each of its meetings reports which are circulated in advance of the meeting from the executive directors on major operational matters.
Reports are also made by specialists on general and Company business areas and by other executives and external advisers on key business areas.
During the year matters covered by such reports included stock management, e-commerce, logistics, health and safety, renancing and the Bribery Act.
In addition to the directors, board meetings are attended by Nigel Palmer Retail Operations Director, Nikki Zamblera Human Resources Director, Suzanne Harlow Group Trading Director and the Company Secretary.
The Chairmans main responsibilities are to lead the board ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects, to facilitate the contribution of the non-executive directors and the relationship between them and the executive directors, to set the boards agenda and when necessary to manage relationships and communication with the shareholders of the Company.
The day-to-day management and achievement of the strategic objectives of the Company is the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
There are clear divisions of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and these are set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The description of the roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive is available on www.
As at 28 August 2010, the board of Debenhams plc comprised three executive directors, four independent non-executive directors and Nigel Northridge, non-executive Chairman.
No individual or small group of individuals dominates the boards decision taking.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, since Nigel Northridge was appointed during the year, he will be subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the AGM in 2011.
The executive directors are Rob Templeman Chief Executive, Michael Sharp Deputy Chief Executive and Chris Woodhouse Finance Director.
Michael Sharp and Chris Woodhouse will stand for re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, at the 2011 AGM.
The four independent non-executive directors are Dennis Millard Senior Independent Director, Adam Crozier, Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing.
Adam Crozier will stand for re-election at the AGM.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the board to be independent and free from any relationship or circumstances that could affect their independent judgement.
Since year end the number of independent non-executive directors has increased to five following the appointment of Mark Rolfe on 1 October 2010.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr Rolfe will stand for election at the AGM.
The Company is actively considering the provisions relating to the annual re-election of all directors contained in the new UK Corporate Governance Code and, in particular, whether and how to implement a policy of annual re-election.
Biographies for the members of the board can be found on page 37 of this report.
The following details changes to the board composition since 29 August 2009: Nigel Northridge Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 January 2010 John Lovering Chairman Retired 31 March 2010 Nigel Northridge Chairman Appointed 1 April 2010 Paul Pindar Non-Executive Director Retired 30 April 2010 Mark Rolfe Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 October 2010 Board Committees The board committees are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The terms of reference which are reviewed annually of each committee can be found on our website at www.
During the year each committee has conducted a review of its own effectiveness and actions have been taken in light of any matters identied.
41 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Nigel Northridge.
The other members are Adam Crozier and Martina King both of whom were appointed members on 1 May 2010 together with Dennis Millard and Sophie Turner Laing.
Mark Rolfe, who was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010, is also a member of the Committee.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, the HR Director and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary also attends any meeting in his capacity of Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors.
It is also responsible for board succession planning and for reviewing board size, structure and composition having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence required.
The Committee recommends which directors should be put forward for re-election by shareholders and reviews each directors time commitment and other external directorships held.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for monitoring and approving any directors conicts of interest.
Following a recruitment process facilitated by external search consultants, Nigel Northridge joined the board as an independent non-executive director on 1 January 2010 and on 29 January 2010 the Company announced that he was to become Chairman with effect from 1 April 2010 following John Loverings retirement on 31 March 2010.
Mark Rolfe was appointed to the board on 1October 2010 following a recruitment process facilitated by external search consultants.
This process was managed by the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with Company policy Mr Northridge received a full induction.
Such induction aims to enable new members of the board to make a full contribution to its discussions, be aware of the business policies in place and to refresh their knowledge on corporate governance, best practice and general compliance.
On the anniversary of each appointment the induction process is reviewed with the respective board member in order to obtain feedback on the induction provided with a view to enhancing future inductions.
Mr Rolfe is currently in the induction process.
The Remuneration Committee The Committees membership and responsibilities are detailed within the Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 58.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard who has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are Adam Crozier, Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing who became a member of the Committee on 1 May 2010.
Mark Rolfe, who was appointed to the board on 1 October 2010, is also a member of the Committee.
The Audit Committee meetings are also attended by the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management, the external auditors,  LLP, and the Treasurer for the presentation of his report.
The Chief Executive periodically attends meetings of the Committee at the discretion of the Committee Chairman.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to review all financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, to review the Groups internal and external audit activity and to review and monitor the effectiveness of the risk management process and internal controls within the business.
In addition to the meetings set out in the attendance table overleaf, the Committee met with the Companys auditor and the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management privately without any management being present.
During the year the Committee has monitored and reviewed the efficiency of risk management and internal control, considered the external auditors performance, resource, independence and objectivity to enable them to recommend to the board their re-election as auditors for financial year 2011, reviewed all financial statements, key accounting policies, the auditors report on the year end audit and managements responses to the issues.
The internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for 2010 were also agreed and approved.
The Companys whistleblowing policy was also updated to encapsulate The Bribery Act 2010.
Treasury and legal reports are also presented to each meeting as necessary.
Historically, health and safety reports were also presented to each meeting, however these are now delivered to the board.
After each meeting the chairman of the Committee reports to the board on the matters discussed and raises any significant findings or identied weaknesses to the appropriate board member.
Meetings and Attendance Full attendance is expected at all meetings of the board, its committees and the AGM.
Agendas are set by the chairman of the meeting and papers are usually circulated to the members one week in advance.
The board held five meetings during the year.
42 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance The attendance by individual directors at scheduled meetings of the board and its committees during the year was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Meeting Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 5 1 2 3 1 Nigel Northridge 3 0 2 Rob Templeman 5 2 Michael Sharp 4 Chris Woodhouse 5 3 Adam Crozier 4 0 2 2 4 Martina King 5 0 0 3 5 Sophie Turner Laing 5 1 0 1 Dennis Millard 5 1 2 3 1 Three board meetings have been held since Nigel Northridge became a member of the board on 1 January 2010.
The Nomination Committee did not meet again in the financial year under review after his appointment to the Committee on 1 January 2010.
The Chairman is not a member of the Audit Committee, however the Committee invites him to attend each meeting so long as no conict of interest arises.
There have been two meetings of the Committee since his appointment.
2 Michael Sharp was unable to attend one board meeting due to a family commitment.
3 Adam Crozier was unable to attend one board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting which were on the same day due to a schedule clash.
The Nomination Committee did not meet again in the financial year under review since he became a member of that committee on 1 May 2010.
4 The Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee did not meet again in the financial year under review since Martina Kings appointment to those committees on 1 May 2010.
5 Sophie Turner Laing became a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 1 May 2010.
Since that date the Audit Committee has met once and there were no further meetings of the Remuneration Committee in the financial year under review.
Where directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conicts in their schedule, they receive and read the papers for consideration at that meeting relaying any comments to the Chairman in advance of the meeting where possible.
Information and Support The Company Secretary facilitates the ow of information within the board and its committees and between senior management and the non-executive directors.
The Company makes available the necessary resources to develop and update the directors knowledge and skills in order that they may perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.
The Company Secretary ensures compliance with board processes and corporate governance.
Independent professional advice is also available to the non-executive directors and the board committees at the Companys expense in order to full their duties.
None of the directors sought such advice during the year.
Debenhams provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and ofcers.
Performance Evaluation A formal evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees, the individual directors and the Chairman was conducted during the year in order to review past performance and to develop future performance.
The performance of the internal and external auditors was also evaluated.
As in previous years, the evaluation was conducted internally through the circulation of a number of condential questionnaires which covered the key responsibilities and attributes required of members of the board and its committees.
These were completed by all directors in relation to the board and any committee of which they were a member.
The Chairman met with each Director upon his appointment as Chairman and he will continue to do that annually as part of the ongoing performance evaluation process.
The Senior Independent Director will appraise the Chairmans performance.
The results of the evaluations were collated by the Company Secretary and analysed in detail by the Chairman, the Chairman of the relevant committee, the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman led the full board in a discussion about the results of the board evaluation and a similar session took place in respect of each committee led by the Committee Chairman.
The results of the evaluation were satisfactory and concluded that the board and its committees operate effectively and that a sound corporate governance framework is in place.
Generally the view was that the processes are robust and thorough and feedback from various board members has enabled the questionnaire to be tailored so that it will be even more focused in future years.
The evaluation has led to the Company Secretary putting more structure into training and development needs of the directors and also giving better visibility on the anticipated length of meetings.
The results of the evaluation of both the internal and external audit teams is disclosed within the Risk Management section on page 46.
43 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 3 Management and Governance Corporate Governance continued Directors Conicts of Interest The Nominations Committee reviewed and considered the interests and other appointments of the board members in August and any conicts were considered and approved.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes to the registered conicts.
Share Capital and Control Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 38 to 39 of the Directors Report.
Auditor Independence In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has been established and is regularly reviewed.
This covers matters such as the requirement that auditors and their staff should have no family, financial, employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the full board in respect of re-appointment annually of the auditors and the board then ensures that this is included on the Notice for the Annual General Meeting.
 LLP PwC has a policy that requires the audit partner to rotate off an audit clients account every five years and this rotation has recently taken place in respect of the Debenhams audit.
As regards the risk of PwCs withdrawal from the market, the Company considers that there are sufficient other auditors in the market place should this situation ever arise.
The objective of the Audit Committees policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditors is to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
An independent report is produced by the Debenhams central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee at each meeting.
The Companys policy identies three categories of accounting services.
The first category is audit-related services which the auditors are permitted to provide.
The second category is prohibited services which the auditors are not permitted to provide.
Prohibited services are those which might result in the external auditor auditing its own work or making management decisions for the Company and services where some mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The third category is potential services which the auditors may, in certain circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
0.2 million was paid by the Company to  for non-audit services in respect of advisory services.
The audit fees paid by the pension schemes were 27,000.
Relations with Shareholders The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are always available to meet with major shareholders at their request on relevant issues and the Chairman met with several shareholders shortly after his appointment.
Formal trading updates were issued on six occasions during the year: September 2009 full year trading update, October 2009 full year results, January 2010 first half interim management statement, March 2010 first half trading update, April 2010 first half results and July 2010 second half interim management statement.
Presentations for shareholders and analysts were held following the announcements of results in October and April with conference calls held after all other trading updates.
A programme of individual and group meetings and conference calls is organised throughout the year at which the Chief Executive, Deputy Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations discuss the Companys performance and strategy with shareholders.
In 2010, meetings were held in London, Dublin, Birmingham, Manchester, Liverpool, Paris, Boston and New York.
Analysts and investors were invited to visit the newly-acquired Magasin du Nord business in Copenhagen in May 2010.
In April 2010, an investor perception study was commissioned in order to gain the views of major shareholders and some non-holders on a number of issues including strategy, business activities, financial strength, management, governance, disclosure and communication.
The results of this study were presented to and discussed by the board.
44 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
