BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate governance statement Devro plc is committed to high standards of corporate the setting of corporate strategy: governance consistent with the needs of the business and the interests of stakeholders.
The directors recognise the importance approval of the annual budget: and of sound corporate governance in the efficient running of the company and, in particular, to the effectiveness and major decisions on capital expenditure.
independence of the Board and the management of risks faced by the group.
This was reviewed and updated in 2010.
Board composition The day to day management of the business is the responsibility Mr P W B Page, Chief Executive, Mr P C Williams, Finance of executive management.
Director, Mr S J Hannam, Chairman, Mr P A J Neep, NonExecutive Director, and Mr S R Paterson, Non-Executive Director, How does the Board demonstrate independence?
In determining the independence of the Non-Executive Directors, the Board considers a number of factors.
In particular, the Board It is the considered view of the Board that both the Nonsatisfies itself on the following questions: Executive Directors are independent directors.
This opinion is based primarily on careful consideration of their character and Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to judgement and their contribution to the work of the Board and executive management?
Furthermore, none holds any external position which would impinge upon his independence or objectivity, nor Is the director prepared to challenge the views and are there such relationships or circumstances as envisaged by assumptions of others in the best interests of the group and Provision A.
Mr P A J Neep has held the position of Senior Independent Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate Director since October 2005.
The Board views the Senior by the Board and its committees?
Independent Directors role as essentially a passive one, but acknowledges that there can be occasions where there may Is the director willing to defend his own beliefs and viewpoints be a need for shareholders to convey concerns to the Board in the best interests of the group and its shareholders?
other than through the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
The companys major shareholders have been reminded that the Does the director have a sufficiently detailed knowledge of Senior Independent Director is willing to meet with them if they the groups business to enable him to effectively challenge wish.
strategy and the executive managements running of the business?
Mr P C Williams announced his retirement in December 2010, and will leave the company in April 2011.
All other directors How does the Board demonstrate balance?
including Mr S C Webb who joined the company on 17 January The Chairman believes that an efficient Board requires a range 2011 will stand for election or re-election at the forthcoming of skills and experience in order to ensure balanced and Annual General Meeting AGM.
As in previous years, brief informed decision-making at Board meetings.
The composition biographies of all Board members, giving details of their of the Board is kept under review, to ensure that the Board experience and other main commitments, can be found on is of sufficient size and diversity that the balance of skills and page 22, allowing shareholders to take an informed decision experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
on the question of election or re-election.
All the directors have had their performance evaluated recently, and the Chairman is How does the Board keep informed?
satisfied that each continues to be effective and to demonstrate On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an commitment to the role.
In agreeing to put forward Mr P A induction programme to familiarise themselves with the groups J Neep for re-election, the Board noted that he had already businesses and the risks and strategic challenges facing the served six years, and carefully reviewed his performance and the group, as well as the economic, competition, legal and regulatory question of his independence before unanimously concluding environments in which the group operates.
that his contribution merited a further term.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming AGM the Chairman intends to recommend that all of The directors are supplied with detailed papers covering the the directors be elected or re-elected.
groups operating functions in advance of all Board meetings.
Members of the executive management team attend and make There is a clear division of authority and responsibility through the presentations as appropriate at meetings of the Board.
separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This demarcation is set out in writing and has been agreed A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with by the Board.
training provided during the year, ensures that the directors continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Directors of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of groups businesses, as well as their awareness of industry, risk, a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
legal, regulatory, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil their role effectively on the Board and committees The directors believe that it is essential that the group should be of the Board.
led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it on matters such as: Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued In addition, the Board arranges for the Non-Executive Directors Board papers are generally circulated one week before the to visit the groups principal locations to discuss operations with meetings.
Monthly management accounts in an agreed format are local management.
The Board plans to visit at least one of the also sent to directors in a timely manner.
groups principal locations each year, where they will receive a presentation and tour of the business.
During the course of 2010, The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and Risk the directors visited the groups Czech and Scottish operations.
Committees, all appropriately resourced, met a total of 17 times during the year.
The directors can obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense in performance of their duties as The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met informally directors, although none has done so in the period under review.
during the year, providing an opportunity to review the business In addition, all directors have access to the services of the without the Executive Directors being present.
Company Secretary, who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are observed and for advising the Board on Board evaluation Corporate Governance matters.
A new formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board was introduced in 2009.
The process is conducted internally, and 2.
Board and committee proceedings is based on a detailed questionnaire which is distributed to the The Board acknowledges that it is collectively responsible directors for their consideration.
This is further supplemented by for the success of the company by providing entrepreneurial individual and collective discussions on the Boards performance.
28 leadership, setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary financial and human resources are in place, and The questionnaire examines the balance of the skills of the reviewing management performance.
directors, the operation of the Board in practice, including its corporate governance, and the operation and content of Board The committees carry out detailed independent oversight on meetings.
The feedback received from the questionnaire is then behalf of the Board in relation to the audit of the company, health used to identify opportunities to improve the performance of the and safety issues, the remuneration of directors and the risks Board and the directors.
The Board also conducts an internal review of the effectiveness In order to discharge these responsibilities, the Board and its of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year.
In Risk Committees, incorporating a questionnaire covering such 2010, the Board held eight meetings.
Full details of the Board matters as the role of and organisation of each committee, meeting and committee attendance are shown in the table below: arrangements, information provision and effectiveness.
The results of the evaluation for 2010 were discussed by the Board and, where areas for improvement were identified, actions were agreed.
A number of recommendations emerged, including more effective ways to distribute information.
Board and Committee attendance of directors during the year ended 31 December 2010 S J Hannam P W B Page P A J Neep S R Paterson P C Williams Board 8 meetings 8 8 8 8 7 Audit Committee 5 meetings 5 n a 5 5 n a Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 3 meetings 3 n a 3 3 n a Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 1 meeting n a 1 n a n a 1 Nomination Committee 2 meetings 2 n a 2 2 n a Health and Safety Committee 4 meetings 4 4 3 n a n a Risk Committee 2 meetings n a 2 n a n a 2 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 3.
Directors remuneration account the appropriate guidelines.
The external auditors also Details of the level of remuneration received by the directors in report annually to the Committee on the actions they have taken to 2010 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 36. comply with professional and regulatory requirements, as well as The Board believes that the current levels of remuneration are current best practice, in order to demonstrate their independence.
sufficient to attract and retain the directors needed to run the There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees company successfully, without being excessive.
Base salaries for choice of external auditors, and the Committee will continue to Executive Directors are reviewed annually against those paid for periodically review their performance.
similar positions in comparable companies.
Professional advice from independent advisers is sought each year in this regard by The companys auditors  LLP rotate the the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
The current audit partner has been in position since 31 December 2007 and will rotate out of the role An explanation of the companys incentive schemes is set out in in 2012. the Remuneration Report.
As part of the formal annual review of the independence of the The Executive Directors service contracts provide for notice auditors, the Committee also looks carefully at the level of non-audit periods of one year.
Due to the technical nature of the business, work conducted by the auditors and the detailed safeguards which these contracts contain restrictive covenants which will be they have in place.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to rigorously applied and, taking this into account, the Board and the objectivity and independence of the external audit arising from 29 the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee believe that the level of non-audit fees.
The fees paid to external auditors in 2010 the notice periods are reasonable and in the best interests of the are set out in note 8 to the financial statements on page 50.
Almost company, having regard to prevailing market conditions and current all of the non-audit fees relate to tax and pensions advice.
The practice among public companies.
Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work being conducted by the auditors.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is reviewed from time to time by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee, The companys whistleblowing procedures are also reviewed taking independent external advice as appropriate.
annually, with the Committee concluding that the arrangements in place would result in proportionate and independent investigation of Mr P A J Neep chaired the Executive Directors Remuneration such matters.
The other members of the Committee were Mr S R Paterson and Mr S J Hannam.
Relationship with shareholders three times in 2010.
The company communicates with institutional investors primarily through analysts briefings and meetings with major shareholders, The Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee is chaired as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements.
The Board, by Mr P W B Page, with Mr P C Williams as the other member.
and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, are kept informed The Committee met once in 2010. of investors views in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
The Chairman is willing to meet with The Remuneration Report contains a detailed statement of the shareholders, large and small, to discuss matters such as strategy remuneration of each director for 2010 including details of the and governance and, in addition, the Senior Independent Director companys pension policy for Executive Directors.
is available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through the usual channels.
The written remit of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee is available on the companys website.
Broader shareholder communication takes place through the companys website, which contains significant company 4.
Report from the Audit Committee announcements and other relevant information, and also through The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, which are the annual report and AGM.
All directors attend the AGM, and available on the companys website and include the responsibilities shareholders have the opportunity to hear presentations on the set out in Provision C. 3.2 of the Code.
companys financial and business performance as well as to question any member of the Board on any relevant topic.
Mr S R Paterson chaired the Committee throughout the year.
The other members of the Committee in 2010 were Mr P A J Votes at the AGM are conducted by way of a poll to ensure that Neep and Mr S J Hannam.
The Company Secretary acts as the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend may be taken Secretary to the Committee.
The results are announced to the Stock Exchange.
The Board views Mr S R Paterson as the Committee member Each substantial issue is proposed as an individual resolution of the with both recent and relevant financial expertise as stipulated in AGM.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Provision C. 3.1 of the Code.
Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance The company also organises analysts and investors visits to Director, the Chief Executive and the Head of Risk Assurance, as group operations from time to time.
In 2010 a visit to one of the invitees.
Representatives of the auditors also attend as required.
groups Czech plants was arranged.
The Committee and the external auditors operate procedures to 6.
Report from the Nomination Committee ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent.
These The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J procedures include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit Hannam, Mr P A J Neep and Mr S R Paterson.
The Company by the Committee.
Each year the Committee considers carefully Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
the external auditors independence and objectivity, taking into Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found objectives.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified as part of on the companys website.
These include the regular review of the the group risk assessment process and how they are managed or structure, size and composition of the Board.
mitigated are summarised on pages 14 and 15.
During 2010, the Committee met on two occasions.
The Board of Directors, being ultimately responsible for the groups system of internal control, has established an internal financial The question of succession planning for senior management below control structure which is designed to provide the Board with Board level is primarily the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that it can rely on the accuracy and reliability of the financial records.
Report from the Health and Safety Committee This Committee was formed in 2009, reflecting the Boards focus The structure, which is based on an assessment of material on health and safety matters.
financial risks, can be described under the following headings: The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J Financial reporting Hannam, Mr P W B Page, Mr P A Neep and Dr M H Cooke, the There is a budgeting system in place which includes an groups Strategic Development Director.
annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget.
Revised forecasts for the year The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found are prepared regularly.
The company reports formally to 30 on the companys website.
The Committee convened four times in 2010, and on three of Operating controls these occasions met either by telephone or in person with Financial and operational policies and procedures are set out representatives of the Safety Committees of one of the groups in formal procedures manuals which are held by all Business major manufacturing facilities.
The latter are responsible for ensuring that all relevant staff are familiar with their content and A more detailed description of the operation of this Committee application.
All Board members, Business Directors and senior in 2010 can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility finance staff have been issued with Internal Control Guidelines.
Report on pages 16 and 17 of this report.
Financial reporting Formal written treasury procedures are in operation, covering The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced banking arrangements, hedging instruments, investment of and understandable assessment of the companys position and cash balances and borrowing procedures.
Each Annual Report contains a Chairmans Statement responsibilities and levels of delegated authority in relation to and a Business Review.
The Interim Report also contains a treasury matters are defined.
The Board believes that this additional narrative sets the accounts in context and promotes a better Internal Audit understanding of the current status of the business and its outlook.
The company has an internal audit function, which has a reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and To ensure consistency of reporting, the group has an established also direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
The Head of consolidation process as well as formal financial and operational Risk Assurance, who is responsible for internal audit, normally procedures manuals.
Management monitors the publication of new attends Audit Committee meetings and makes a formal report reporting standards and works closely with the external auditors in to the Committee annually.
evaluating the impact of these standards.
Internal control and risk The company has clearly defined guidelines for the approval An ongoing process is in place to identify, evaluate and manage the and review of capital expenditure projects, which include annual significant risks the group faces, which accords with the Turnbull budgets and designated levels of authority.
A Risk Committee was formed in 2010, comprising the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Integrity of personnel Committee.
This Committee will meet four times a year and is The company has a Policy on Business Conduct which sets charged with reviewing risk throughout the group.
As part of the out specific requirements for all staff to meet the companys process, the groups Head of Risk Assurance has responsibility standards of conduct and integrity in their business dealings.
for the application of risk assessment procedures, including an assessment of non-financial risks across the group.
Each group The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal operating company prepares a risk assessment for its business.
control and considers that the group has an established system This involves each company preparing a report identifying the of internal control which the directors believe to be appropriate to relevant risks to both current operations and future strategy, the the business.
process for managing and mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes 10.
A similar exercise is also conducted at group level, The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to which takes account of any significant risks identified by each of affect its future performance, are set out in the Business Review on the individual operating companies.
The risk assessment reports pages 6 to 8.
Details of the groups exposure to credit, interest rate are then considered and approved by the Risk Committee, before and liquidity risks are outlined in note 22 to the financial statements.
finally being reviewed by the Board.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION In their consideration of the companys ability to continue as a going concern, the directors have reviewed the groups future cash flow forecasts and associated risks.
These forecasts extend for a period of two years from the date of approval of these financial statements.
The Board considers the groups net debt of 12,177,000 at 31 December 2010 to be low when compared to its net profit before exceptional items of 28,473,000.
As such, the Board is confident about the groups ability to secure future funding when its current facilities become due for renewal in January 2012.
The company is currently engaged in discussions with a number of banks to obtain a competitive funding package for the group.
Accordingly, after making enquiries and considering the question carefully, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, 31 they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Share capital The Takeover Directive disclosures regarding the companys share capital structure are included in the share capital section of the directors report on page 24 of this report.
Statement on compliance This statement, together with the Remuneration Report set out on pages 32 to 36, describes how, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010, the company has applied the provisions and principles of corporate governance as set out in the 2008 version of the Combined Code the Code.
The companys Remuneration Committee structure does not fully comply with Provision B.
2.2, as the remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee comprising the Executive Directors, instead of by a committee of Non-Executive Directors.
The companys two-committee approach, which is more fully described and explained in the Remuneration Report, is designed to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration, thus avoiding any potential conflict of interest, while ensuring that the experience of the Chairman is available to the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
The Board believes that this arrangement is an appropriate and effective use of the available resources and is fully in line with the spirit of the Code.
With this exception, the company has complied with all the Codes provisions throughout the period under review.
With effect from 1 January 2011, the company will apply the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy is publicly available at frc.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
