Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information 93 Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2010.
The year has seen various reviews and commentaries on corporate governance in the UK, mostly in response to the recent severe economic downturn.
Among the most notable are the review of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as defined below by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and Sir David Walkers review of the governance of banks and other financial institutions.
In addition to the detailed observations and recommendations produced by these reviews, we have discerned several key themes that we believe already characterise Diageos corporate governance and give us some comfort but not a sense of complacency that we are aligned with the current thinking on best practice in this area.
Indeed some of the phrasing used here is borrowed from the FRC and Walker reviews.
In particular, we share the belief that good governance is not merely a compliance exercise but something that supports the long term success of the company and further, we recognise that the quality of corporate governance ultimately depends on behaviours not process, with the result that there is a limit to the extent to which any regulatory framework can deliver good governance.
It follows that the role of the chairman in leading the board, the commitment of all members of the board and the mix of skills, experience and independence that they bring, is paramount.
We believe that Diageo has a board which: is up to the challenge of meeting these standards, understanding and helping to meet the challenges facing the company: has sufficient independence to allow an objective approach: and which provides leadership and constructive challenge in the boardroom.
The description in this report of Diageos corporate governance structures and procedures and of the work of the board and executive committee is intended to give a sense of how Diageo seeks to achieve the aspirations described above.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2010 are contained in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance as updated and published by the FRC in June 2008 the Code and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main Market of the LSE to describe, in their annual report, their corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with their adherence to the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Diageo has complied with both the main principles set out in section 1 of the Code and the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the Financial Reporting Council, www.
Following its review of the Code in 2009, the FRC published the revised Code renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010.
The revised Code will apply to reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 for Diageo, the year ending 30 June 2011.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst the directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies continue to be robust, changes have been and will continue to be made in light of the rules that are in place at any point in time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice: differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised below within this report and on the companys website at www.
The way in which the Codes principles of good governance and relevant provisions of SOX are applied is described within this corporate governance report.
PD Tunnacliff e Company Secretary Diageo Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report 94 The board manages overall control of the companys affairs with Board of directors reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the Membership of the board and board committees, board for decision.
The schedule was last revised in June 2009. other directorships and attendance at meetings The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: Governance members of the board, audit committee, nomination group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: committee and remuneration committee are as set out above compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of 77 Board of directors and in the biographies of directors and members of the executive business conduct: business development, including major executive committee committee.
The directors biographies also show the significant investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment 80 other commitments of the chairman and other directors and or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk Directors whether there have been any changes to them during the year.
management: financial reporting and audit: corporate remuneration Directors attendance during the year at board meetings, citizenship, ethics and the environment: and pensions.
report meetings of the audit, nomination and remuneration The Act sets out directors general duties concerning 93 Corporate committees and at the Annual General Meeting was as set out conflicts of interest and related matters.
The board have agreed governance report in the table at the end of this report.
an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts of 102 The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive interest and agreed to add responsibility for authorising conflicts Directors directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their of interest to the schedule of matters reserved for the board.
The report experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
board confirmed that it was aware of no situations that may or did The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds a UK non-executive give rise to conflicts with the interests of the company other than directorship in Unilever PLC and a US non-executive directorship those that may arise from directors other appointments as in FedEx Corporation.
The board considers that, given the disclosed in their biographies above.
In accordance with the importance of the United States to the companys business, the articles, the board authorised the chairman or the company FedEx directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of market secretary, as appropriate, to receive notifications of conflicts of awareness, US business practices and networking and that interest on behalf of the board and to make recommendations the time commitment is not onerous as the meetings can be as to whether the relevant matters should be authorised by the combined with other business trips to the United States.
The company has complied with these procedures during The chief financial officer, NC Rose, holds a UK non-executive the year.
directorship in BAE Systems PLC to which he was appointed All directors are equally accountable for the proper during the year.
DA Mahlan who, as detailed above in the stewardship of the companys affairs.
section on biographies of directors, will succeed Mr Rose as The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility chief financial officer on 1 October 2010 holds no nonfor ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully executive directorships.
This enables the directors to There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and promote the success of the company for the benefit of its the chief executive.
The chairman, Dr FB Humer, is responsible for shareholders as a whole, whilst having regard to, among other the running of the board and for ensuring all directors are fully matters, the interests of employees, the fostering of business informed of matters sufficient to make informed judgements.
relationships with customers, suppliers and others, and the As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for implementing impact of the companys operations on the communities in the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the group.
which the business operates and the environment.
He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
The non-executive directors also oversee the operational The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full and determined are independent, are experienced and influential timely access to all relevant information, with updates also individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the the company.
In addition, executive committee members and proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring other senior executives are invited, as appropriate, to board that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group and strategy meetings to make presentations on their areas of dominates the boards decision-making processes.
Non-executive directors are also invited to attend Through the nomination committee, the board ensures the executive committee members senior leadership meetings that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and of the non-executive directors is available at www.
com services of the company secretary who is responsible for advising or on request from the company secretary.
the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
The non-executive directors meet independently without Activities of the board the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary independently of management, on a regular basis.
to work closely together in planning the annual programme The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate and agendas for meetings.
During the year, six scheduled board accountability.
The remits of the audit, the nomination and the meetings were held, five in the United Kingdom and one in remuneration committees of the board are set out below and China.
With the plans for the joint annual strategy conference membership of these committees is as set out above in the with the full executive committee being disrupted by travel Board of directors and executive committee section of this restrictions, the groups strategy discussions were re-scheduled Annual Report.
The company secretary acts as secretary and held within extended board and board committee to all of these committees.
The terms of reference of the meetings, particularly those held in China.
committees are available on the companys website at When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are www.
advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 95 Training Audit committee There is a formal induction programme for new directors: Role of the audit committee they meet with the executive committee members individually The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and and receive orientation training from the relevant senior reviewing: executive in relation to the group and its business, for example the integrity of the financial statements, including a review in relation to its assurance processes, environmental and social of the significant financial reporting judgements contained policies, corporate responsibility policies and practices and in them: governance matters.
the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk All directors are provided with the opportunity, and management and of control over financial reporting: encouraged to go, for training to ensure they are kept up to date the effectiveness of the global audit and risk function, on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice including the programme of work undertaken by and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training that function: experience for directors includes attendance at seminars, the groups policies and practices concerning business forums, conferences and working groups and during the year conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: also included training on pensions and treasury matters within the groups overall approach to securing compliance with audit committee meetings.
Training for directors is kept under laws, regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and review during the year.
the companys relationship with the external auditor, including its independence and managements response to any major Performance evaluation external audit recommendations.
During the year, the board, audit committee, nomination committee and remuneration committee each undertook a For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the US formal evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness and Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, the board has each of the committees also reviewed its terms to reference.
determined that PG Scott is independent and may be regarded Internally produced questionnaires were used for the as an audit committee financial expert.
The board questionnaire The chairman, the chief financial officer, the group controller, focussed on the performance of the board throughout the past the head of global audit and risk, the director of technical year in the areas of strategy, performance management, accounting and the external auditor are normally invited to management succession, risk management and boardroom attend meetings.
The chairman additionally held individual meetings The audit committee met privately with the external auditor with each director.
In concluding that it and its committees and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
continued to operate effectively, the board also identified areas to further enhance its effectiveness.
As a result the annual Work of the audit committee agendas of the board and its committees have been reviewed During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the and will be updated to reflect the feedback received.
annual reports and associated preliminary year-end results The performance of each director, who met individually announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement, with the chairman, was evaluated by the chairman based on provisioning and complexity, critical accounting policies and self-analysis and input from the other directors.
The chairmans any changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition, performance was evaluated by the directors, using an internally the audit committee also reviewed the interim results produced questionnaire which was completed and returned to announcement and the companys interim management the senior non-executive director, who discussed the feedback in statements.
The audit committee also reviewed the work of the a meeting with the executive and non-executive directors and filings assurance committee described below and was updated then privately with the chairman.
A report on the individual on litigation risks by the groups general counsel.
performance evaluation process was given to the nomination The audit committee received detailed presentations from committee.
Following the performance evaluation of individual certain senior executives on the management of key risk and directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive control issues in their respective business areas, reviewed the directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to effectiveness and findings from internal control and risk perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
management processes described below and reviewed the It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its work of the compliance programme and the work of the audit performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
and risk committee, described below.
A decision is taken each year on the performance evaluation The audit committee had available to it the resources of process to be used.
In respect of the coming years evaluation the global audit and risk function, the activities of which are process, no decision has yet been made whether to continue described below.
with the same method of internal evaluation or to engage an During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external external facilitator.
audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial statements.
The audit committee also met privately with the external auditor.
The audit committee reviews annually the appointment of the auditor and, on the audit committees recommendation, the board agreed in August 2010 to recommend to shareholders at the annual general meeting in 2010, the re-appointment of the external auditor for a period of one year.
The current overall tenure of the external auditor dates from 1997.
Any decision to open the external auditor to tender is taken on the recommendation of the audit committee, based on the results of the effectiveness review described below.
There are no Diageo Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report 96 contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice appointees were provided to the committee, which after of external auditor.
careful consideration, made a recommendation to the board.
The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness of In respect of the appointment of DA Mahlan to the board the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings and her appointment as chief financial officer, both with effect and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance, global from 1 October 2010, the committee undertook an independent Governance audit and risk staff and other senior executives.
In reviewing the review of the role and after careful consideration, made a independence of the external auditor, the audit committee recommendation to the board.
77 Board of directors and considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, executive committee experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature Remuneration committee 80 and level of services provided by the external auditor: and Role of the remuneration committee Directors confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied The role of the remuneration committee and details of how remuneration with relevant UK and US independence standards.
the company applies the principles of the Code in respect report The group has a policy on auditor independence and on of directors remuneration are set out in the directors 93 Corporate the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is remuneration report.
governance report reviewed annually, most recently in June 2010.
Under this policy The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, 102 the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the attend remuneration committee meetings, except when Directors audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected their own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved report to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of in determining his or her own remuneration.
service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised Executive direction and control as follows: accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit Executive committee or other attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the due diligence and other support in respect of acquisitions, chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the disposals, training and other business initiatives: and key components of the business: North America, Europe, certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax International and Asia Pacific markets, global supply and global planning and related implementation advice in relation to functions.
The members of the committee and their biographies acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
are set out above in the Board of directors and executive committee section of this Annual Report.
It met four times Nomination committee during the year, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, Role of the nomination committee people, performance including brands and governance.
One of The nomination committee is responsible for keeping under the meetings was held in the United States, one in Brazil and the review the composition of the board and succession to it, and remainder in the United Kingdom.
In addition, scheduled interim succession planning for senior management positions.
It makes update meetings were held by teleconference throughout the recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the year.
Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required members of the executive committee who are accountable blend of skills and experience.
to him for the performance of their business units.
The nomination committee also makes recommendations Executive direction and control procedures include to the board concerning the re-appointment of any nonapproval of annual strategic plans submitted by each business executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term unit executive and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the generally attended by the regional president responsible for retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
the market and in certain cases additional members of the No director is involved in determining his or her own executive committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews focus on business performance management Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in and specific issues around brands, people, key business accordance with the companys articles of association, they must decisions and risk management.
be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
They must retire, The chief executive has created several executive working and may stand for re-election by the shareholders.
As referred to groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with above, the new UK Corporate Governance Code requires that all specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created directors retire by rotation every year.
This will have effect from committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including the Companys AGM in October 2010. the following.
Activities of the nomination committee Audit and risk committee The principal activities of the nomination committee during Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for: overseeing the year were: the review of individual performance: a review the approach to securing effective internal control and risk of the executive committee structure, membership and management in the group: reviewing the adequacy of the succession planning for it: the consideration of potential groups sources of assurance over the management of key risks: non-executive directors: and succession to the role of chief reviewing managements self-assessment process over internal financial officer.
controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance In respect of the appointment of BD Holden to the programme: and reporting periodically on the above to the audit board during the year, the recruitment process included the committee or to the board.
development of a candidate profile and the engagement of a professional search agency specialising in the recruitment of high calibre non-executive directors.
Reports on potential Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 97 In addition, the audit and risk committee is responsible for Additional information promoting the culture and processes that support effective compliance with the groups codes of conduct, business Internal control and risk management guidelines and marketing practices throughout the business and supports the audit committee, board and executive committee Diageos aim is to manage risk and to control its business and financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it in satisfying its corporate governance responsibilities relating to to: exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: internal control and risk management within the group.
avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or Corporate citizenship committee business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee, concerning corporate citizenship risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the strategy, policies and issues.
This includes such matters as: requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved corporate citizenship performance, measurement and reporting: and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting community affairs: environmental matters: and other emerging corporate citizenship issues.
Progress in these areas is reported Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for periodically to the board and publicly through a separate Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull guidance as amended by the Flint review.
corporate citizenship report, which is subject to external The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the Diageo website.
companys systems of internal control and risk management A copy of the corporate citizenship report is available on the and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The board confirms that, through the activities of the audit committee described above, Diageo website.
it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys systems of Two executive working groups one on alcohol in society and one on environmental performance assist the committee internal control and risk management described below.
with its work on specific issues.
They bring together the key All significant business units and the executive committee are required to maintain a process to ensure key risks are executives from the business and functional representatives identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process involved in developing and achieving Diageos commitments in these key areas.
is also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems implementations, new product development, business combination activity or significant business strategy Finance committee implementation.
Additional risk management activity is Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for making focused directly towards operational risks within the business, recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital including health and safety, product quality and environmental risk management.
structure and management of financial risks and the policies Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned and control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury and taxation required to implement the companys to manage those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for financial strategy and financial risk management policies.
example at periodic business reviews.
The oversight of primary risks, as detailed in the executive committee risk assessment, is In certain specific circumstances, the board has delegated allocated as appropriate between the board, board committees authority to the finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury activity is managed centrally within tightly defined and the executive committee.
The executive committee risk dealing authorities and procedures recommended by the assessment, and selected key risk assessments, are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee.
finance committee and approved by the board.
In addition, business units are required to self-assess the effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
Filings assurance committee Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief and summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and committee and audit committee.
Risk management and internal monitoring the processes which are designed to ensure that the control processes encompass activity to mitigate financial, company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory operational, compliance and reputational risk.
Specific processes reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed by SOX are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate or derived from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this internal control over financial reporting, as separately reported report, the filings assurance committee, with the participation on below.
of the chief executive and chief financial officer, carried out an A network of risk management committees is in place, evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of which has overall accountability for supporting the audit and disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those risk committee in its corporate governance responsibilities by controls and procedures designed to ensure that information working with business units to proactively and effectively required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Exchange Act manage risk and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls.
is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken, time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief executive where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through and the chief financial officer concluded that the design and the groups internal control and risk management processes.
operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were The global audit and risk function gives the audit effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed committee, board and executive committee visibility and in the reports that the company files or submits under the understanding of the groups key risks and risk management Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the capability and provides assurance over the quality of the groups management, including the companys principal executive internal control and management of key risks in line with a plan and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely agreed by the audit committee.
It also oversaw the groups decisions regarding disclosure.
Diageo Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report 98 compliance and ethics programme, throughout the financial Relations with shareholders year until May 2010, at which time the global compliance and The company values its dialogue with both institutional and ethics director began reporting direct to the chief financial officer as a function distinct from global audit and risk private investors.
The boards primary contact with institutional as described in more detail below.
shareholders is through the chief executive and chief Governance The above risk management processes and systems of financial officer.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported internal control, together with the filings assurance processes, 77 Board of directors and are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact executive committee failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage 80 recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, of the company by sell-side analysts is circulated to the board.
Directors The board also ensures that all directors develop an not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
remuneration The company has in place internal control and risk understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders report management systems in relation to the companys financial through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
In 93 Corporate reporting process and the groups process for preparation of addition, major shareholders are invited to raise any company governance report matters of interest to them at an annual meeting with the consolidated accounts.
These systems are described above and 102 under the headings Filings assurance committee, Audit and risk chairman and senior non-executive director.
The chief executive Directors committee and Managements report on internal control over and chief financial officer are normally also present and available report financial reporting.
Diageos filings assurance committee and to take questions and the chairman reports on the meeting to the board.
audit and risk committee are each responsible for overseeing elements of these internal control and risk management systems.
Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those Furthermore, a review of the consolidated financial statements is following the announcement of interim results and preliminary completed by management to ensure that the financial position year end results, are webcast and other presentations made to institutional investors are available on the companys website.
and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
For the year ended 30 June 2010, Diageo produced an annual report, which is available to all shareholders on its website, Compliance and ethics programme or in paper form by election or on request.
As an alternative to receiving shareholder documents through the post, Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its shareholders may elect to receive email notification that the business activities are subject.
The board has a comprehensive documents are available to be accessed on the companys compliance and ethics programme to support achievement of website.
Shareholders can also choose to receive email notification when new company information is published this commitment.
Management responsibility for the compliance and ethics programme rests with the global compliance and on www.
The website also provides private ethics director.
As referred to above, in May 2010, the global shareholders with the facility to check their shareholdings online compliance and ethics director began reporting direct to the and to send any questions they may have to the company.
Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman chief financial officer, thus making the compliance and ethics function distinct from the global audit and risk function.
or any other director and express their views on any issues of The code of business conduct continued to be supported concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity by a comprehensive mandatory training programme.
The for private shareholders to put their questions in person.
The company also holds an annual presentation to the UK Diageo marketing code together with Diageos digital code of practice establishes the principles that Diageo follows in Shareholders Association.
relation to marketing and promotional activities of its brands The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration and products.
committees are normally available at the AGM to take any relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
covering its chief executive, chief financial officer, regional At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast presidents and other identifiable persons in the group, including is made available to all shareholders and is published on www.
The company proposes a separate resolution those performing senior accounting and controller functions.
No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics were on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle made during the year.
The full texts of the code of ethics, code resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt of business conduct, marketing code and other Diageo policies of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
that comprise the compliance programme are available on the companys website at www.
Charitable and political donations Compliance and ethics programme guidelines specify the During the year, total charitable donations made by the group manner in which any potential violations of these codes should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an were 24.9 million 2009 23.4 million.
UK group companies independent SpeakUp help line.
The latter is operated made donations of 12.0 million 2009 11.2 million to charitable organisations including 1.1 million 2009 1.1 million independently and reports to the global compliance and ethics to the Diageo Foundation and 7.4 million 2009 7.4 million to director for escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual certification requirement for all senior employees to the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group companies confirm compliance with the code of business conduct or to made charitable donations of 12.9 million 2009 12.2 million.
The group has not given any money for political purposes identify areas of possible non-compliance to the global in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political compliance and ethics director.
Training and education including e-learning activities are also undertaken.
Both the organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during audit and risk committee and the audit committee review the the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.5 million during the year 2009 0.7 million.
operation of the compliance programme.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 99 These were all made, consistent with applicable laws, to federal framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued and state candidates and committees in the United States, by the committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway where it is common practice to make political contributions.
Based on this assessment, management No particular political persuasion was supported and concluded that, as at 30 June 2010, internal control over financial contributions were made with the aim of promoting a better reporting was effective.
understanding of the group and its views on commercial Any internal control framework, no matter how well matters, as well as a generally improved business environment.
designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls and procedures and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, Supplier payment policies and performance projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods Given the international nature of the groups operations, there are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
The because of changes in conditions or because the degree of group is moving to a standard term of 60 days in respect of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
payments to suppliers and will seek to implement these trading During the period covered by this report, there were no terms for all suppliers in the future.
Where this standard term does changes in internal control over financial reporting that have not yet apply, operating companies are responsible for agreeing materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers are aware KPMG Audit plc, an independent registered public of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated in contracts where appropriate.
Creditor days have not been financial statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups calculated, as Diageo plc had no material trade creditors at internal control over financial reporting, and has issued an 30 June 2010.
The companys invoices for goods and services unqualified report thereon, which will be included in the are settled by subsidiaries acting on behalf of the company.
companys Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
Going concern Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and fi financial statements The groups business activities together with significant risk factors are set out above in the Business description.
The liquidity The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, position, capital resources and risk management processes the information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group covering exposure to currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and parent company financial statements in accordance with and price risk are described above in the Business review.
The group has significant financial resources, strong cash Company law requires the directors to prepare group and generation from operations and good access to debt markets.
parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Consequently, the directors believe that the group is well placed Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and economic outlook.
applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company The directors confirm that, after making appropriate financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting enquiries, they have reasonable expectation that the group has Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Accounting Practice.
The directors have taken responsibility to foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the prepare the group financial statements also in accordance with going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors have also presented certain additional information required by the SEC for the Managements report on internal control purposes of the companys Form 20-F.
The group financial statements are required by law and over fi financial reporting IFRS to present fairly the financial position and the performance Management, under the supervision of the chief executive of the group: the Act provides in relation to such financial and chief financial officer, is responsible for establishing and statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to maintaining adequate control over the groups financial financial statements giving a true and fair view are references reporting.
Diageos internal control over financial reporting to their achieving a fair presentation.
includes policies and procedures that: pertain to the The parent company financial statements are required maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide parent company.
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary In preparing each of the group and parent company to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance financial statements, the directors are required to: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as select suitable accounting policies and then apply endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union EU them consistently: and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Board IASB : provide reasonable assurance that receipts and and prudent: expenditures are made only in accordance with authorisation for the group financial statements, state whether they have of management and the directors of the company: and provide been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection EU and as issued by the IASB: of any unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets for the parent company financial statements, state whether that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules the parent company financial statements: and 13 a -13 f and 15 d -15 f under the Exchange Act based on the Diageo Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report 100 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Director independence: the Code requires at least half the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the board excluding the chairman to be independent nonparent company will continue in business.
executive directors, as determined by affirmatively concluding that a director is independent of management and free from The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise Governance records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent of independent judgement.
NYSE rules require a majority of companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at independent directors, according to the NYSEs own bright- 77 Board of directors and any time the financial position of the parent company and enable line tests and an affirmative determination by the board that executive committee them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the the director has no material relationship with the listed 80 Companies Act 2006 and, as regard to group consolidated company.
Diageos board has determined that, in its Directors accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general judgement and without taking into account the NYSE brightremuneration responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open line tests, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
report to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent As such, currently 7 of Diageos 10 directors are independent.
93 Corporate and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman and chief executive: the Code requires these roles governance report Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the to be separate.
There is no corresponding requirement for 102 directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and Directors a directors remuneration report and a corporate governance chief executive.
report report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Non-executive director meetings: NYSE rules require nonIn addition, the directors are responsible for the maintenance management directors to meet regularly without and integrity of the corporate and financial information included management and independent directors to meet separately on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom at least once a year.
The Code requires non-executive directors governing the preparation and dissemination of financial to meet without the chairman present at least annually to statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
During the year, Diageos chairman and non-executive directors met six times as a group without executive directors being present, and the Responsibility statement independent directors met once without the chairman.
Each of the directors, whose names are set out above in the Board committees: Diageo has a number of board committees Board of directors and executive committee section of this that are similar in purpose and constitution to those required Annual Report, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: by NYSE rules.
Diageos audit, remuneration and nomination the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual committees consist entirely of independent non-executive Report for the year ended 30 June 2010, which have been directors save that the chairman of the nomination prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and committee, Dr FB Humer, is not independent.
Under NYSE as endorsed and adopted for use in the EU, give a true and standards, companies are required to have a nominating fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit corporate governance committee, which develops and of the group: and recommends a set of corporate governance principles and the management report represented by the directors is composed entirely of independent directors.
The terms report contained in the Annual Report for the year ended of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which 30 June 2010 includes a fair review of the development and comply with the Code, do not contain such a requirement.
performance of the business and the position of the group, In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Diageo together with a description of the principal risks and discloses in its annual report the results and means of uncertainties that the group faces.
evaluation of the board, its committees and the directors, and it provides extensive information regarding directors The responsibility statement was approved by the board compensation in the directors remuneration report.
Code of ethics: NYSE rules require a code of business conduct and ethics to be adopted for directors, officers and employees and disclosure of any waivers for executive directors or officers.
New York Stock Exchange corporate Diageo has adopted a code of business conduct for all governance rules directors, officers and employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior officers in accordance with the requirements of SOX.
Under applicable SEC rules and the NYSEs corporate governance Currently, no waivers have been granted to directors or rules for listed companies, Diageo must disclose any significant executive officers.
ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from Compliance certification: NYSE rules require CEOs to certify to those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
the NYSE their awareness of any NYSE corporate governance Diageo believes the following to be the significant areas in violations.
Diageo is exempt from this as a foreign private issuer which there are differences between its corporate governance but is required to notify the NYSE if any executive officer practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US becomes aware of any non-compliance with NYSE corporate companies.
This information is also provided on the companys governance standards.
No such notification was necessary website at www.
during the period covered by this report.
Basis of regulation: UK listed companies are required to include in their annual report a narrative statement of i how they have applied the principles of the Code and ii whether or not they have complied with the best practice provisions of the Code.
NYSE listed companies must adopt and disclose their corporate governance guidelines.
Diageo complied throughout the year with the best practice provisions of the Code.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 101 Directors attendance record at the Annual General Meeting, board meetings and board committee meetings, for the year ended 30 June 2010 was as set out in the table below.
For board and board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number that each director was eligible to attend.
Attended by invitation, for part only.
