Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report Membership and meetings Partnership.
The Committee believes that both Tim How and The current membership of the Committee is set out in the table Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen are independent in character and below and comprises the four independent non-executive judgement on appointment and meet the independence directors and the Chairman.
Sir John Collins and John Whybrow criteria as set out in the Combined Code: retired as directors and members of the Committee with effect the appointment of Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen: from 2 September 2009 and 31 March 2010, respectively.
reviewing the composition of the Board Committees following John Allan was appointed as a member of the Committee on the retirement of Sir John Collins and John Whybrow from 23 June 2009 and became its chairman on 2 September 2009. the Board: Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen were appointed as the evaluation of the Board undertaken during the year which members of the Committee with effect from 8 September 2009 confirmed the Committees opinion that the Boards size, and 1 February 2010, respectively.
The biographies and composition and structure and the Board Committee qualifications of the current Committee members are set out on structure were appropriate to the present needs of the Group.
The Committee met four times during the period and The Committee is also satisfied that the present structure the Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
offers strong leadership for the Company, but does not Number of concentrate authority in one or two key individuals.
As part meetings attended Meetings of the evaluation the Committee benchmarked the Board Member during the period eligible to attend against a peer group of companies: Current directors the evaluation of the time commitment required from each John Allan Chairman 4 4 non-executive director and the Chairman in fulfilling their Rita Clifton 4 4 respective roles, recognising the need for availability outside Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 1 the scheduled Board timetable: Tim How 3 3 a review of the Committees performance and terms of Andrew Lynch 4 4 reference: and Former directors Sir John Collins 0 0 a review of the policy for external appointments for both Count Emmanuel dAndr 0 0 non-executive and executive directors.
John Whybrow 3 3 The Committee is satisfied that the Board keeps abreast of developments within the industry through a mixture of private Role of the Committee research and presentations from internal and external advisors The Committees principal roles and responsibilities are: on key areas of importance to the Company.
to keep under review the structure, size and composition of The Committee is satisfied that all the directors retiring at the the Board and its principal committees and to recommend forthcoming AGM are properly qualified for reappointment by changes deemed necessary: virtue of their skills and experience and their contribution of to identify, evaluate and nominate to the Board candidates guidance and time to the Boards deliberations.
for appointment to the Board: to be responsible for succession planning for Board members, in particular, the Chairman and Chief Executive: and to make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or otherwise of a director in office upon the expiry of any John Allan specified term of appointment.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee No member of the Committee participates in discussions or 24 June 2010 decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
The Committees full terms of reference are on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
Key matters considered The principal matters considered by the Committee during the period were the following: the recruitment of Tim How and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen as additional directors to join the Board.
A role description setting out the competencies and experience for the new role was agreed at the start of the recruitment process for each role having considered the existing Boards skills and experience.
This process was led by the Chairman with the assistance of a recruitment consultancy, The Zygos DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 51
