Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Membership and meetings Role of the Committee The current membership of the Committee, whose biographies The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility to: and qualifications are set out on page 40, is set out in the table monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any below and comprises the four independent non-executive formal announcements relating to the Groups financial directors.
Count Emmanuel dAndr and John Whybrow retired performance: as directors and members of the Committee with effect from review critical accounting policies and financial reporting 2 September 2009 and 31 March 2010, respectively.
Tim How judgements: and Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen were appointed as members of the review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control Committee with effect from 8 September 2009 and 1 February and risk management: 2010 respectively and have both attended all meetings since their appointment.
The remaining Committee members served monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal throughout the period.
The Committee was scheduled to meet audit function: four times during the period in June, September, November and review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal April in advance of key internal and external reporting dates.
The and external audit functions including the principal areas Committee has a formal schedule of matters to be considered of focus: over the course of the year which are allocated across the review the Groups risk and insurance programmes: four scheduled meetings.
Any additional matters requiring carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors, consideration are dealt with either at ad hoc meetings or review and monitor their independence and objectivity taking through discussions with the Chairman and other members into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory of the Committee between meetings.
requirements, assess the effectiveness of the external audit process, approve the external auditors remuneration and Number of meetings attended Meetings terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect Member during the period eligible to attend of their reappointment or removal: Current directors review the directors conflicts of interest register and to agree Andrew Lynch Chairman 4 4 any amendments to previously approved conflicts: Rita Clifton 4 4 review regularly the Groups policy on the supply of non-audit Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 1 1 services by the external auditors taking into account relevant Tim How 2 2 ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services, Former directors to approve the qualifying services and the level of non-audit Count Emmanuel dAndr 1 2 fees and to monitor the services provided.
In this respect the John Whybrow 3 3 level of fees paid for non-audit services, when taken as a proportion of the audit fee, is considered in addition to the The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience.
nature of such services in order to preserve the external The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee auditors independence and objectivity: and during the period.
Representatives of the external auditors, monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under the Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern Controller, the Group Chief Accountant and the Group Director relating to financial matters and internal controls of Internal Audit and Risk Management were invited to attend whistleblowing.
each meeting to ensure that Committee members were fully informed and fully supported in carrying out their duties.
The The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available Group Tax Director and the Group Treasurer also attended on the corporate responsibility section of the corporate website.
meetings at the Committees request.
Part of each meeting was held between the members of the Committee and the external auditors in private.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 49 Directors Report: Audit Committee Report continued Corporate Governance Key matters considered In addition to executing the responsibilities described above, the key matters considered by the Committee during the period included: significant issues arising from reports from both the internal and external audits: measures adopted to ensure compliance with the Groups credit facilities: the working capital position of the Group and the management of its cash flow: the carrying value of certain assets in the Group: tax matters: recommendations from the Nominations Committee concerning the composition of the Committee: a review of the Committees performance, and terms of reference: the role and resources of Internal Audit: a review of the Groups Delegation of Authority policy: the implementation of a new Ethical Conduct policy: developments in corporate governance, such as the Walker Review and the Financial Reporting Councils review of the Combined Code: and the annual audit fee, with due regard to the balance between audit and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of nonaudit fees paid to the Groups auditors.
It was considered that this policy has been working well and remained appropriate.
The Committee, having considered the policies and procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and representations of Deloitte LLP, including the regular rotation of audit partner, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution for their reappointment be proposed at the AGM.
Andrew Lynch FCA Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 June 2010 50 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
