Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board recognises the importance of good corporate a review by the Nominations Committee of the Boards size, governance and maintains high standards of corporate composition and structure, and the skills and experience of governance for which the directors are collectively accountable the Board: and to shareholders.
Sound governance is central to achieving the feedback to the Board from the Board and committee directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value and chairmen with recommendations regarding any action to comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is address issues identified.
directed and managed, risks are identified and controlled and The Senior Independent Director also discusses, on an individual effective accountability is assured.
The directors consider that the basis, the performance of the Chairman with each director and Company has throughout the period complied with the provisions provides feedback on these discussions to the Chairman.
set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 Combined Code the Combined Code.
The following statement, together with the The Board concluded that the balance of skills and experience Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 61, the Audit Committee of the Board and its committees was appropriate for the Report on pages 49 and 50 and the Nominations Committee requirements of the Group.
The recruitment of the additional Report on page 51, explains how the Group has throughout non-executive directors is detailed in the Nominations the period applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Committee Report.
On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction programme into the Group together with guidance and training Board of Directors appropriate to their level of previous experience.
The induction Composition and performance programme is agreed at the outset between the relevant As at the date of this report, the Board comprises a nondirector and the Company Secretary and involves both the executive Chairman, who was considered to be independent provision of information in writing relating to the Company, the upon appointment, four non-executive directors considered Board and its committees and relevant corporate governance by the Board to be independent and two executive directors.
guidance and each director being given the opportunity to: In 2008 09, following Sir John Collins notification of his meet with members of the Executive Committee and other intention to retire from the Board on 2 September 2009, Andrew members of senior management: Lynch, the Senior Independent Director, led the search for an additional director to assume the position of Chairman, having visit the Groups operations both in the UK and overseas, considered the outgoing Chairmans performance with the other including store visits and discussions with local colleagues: non-executive directors and having established an appropriate meet with the Groups auditors and other advisors: and role description.
During the year, John Allan was appointed as attend external seminars relevant to the retail industry and a non-executive director and then, in succession to Sir John corporate governance matters.
Collins, became Chairman of the Board on 2 September 2009.
The Board met 13 times during the period, including nine The Board, with the assistance of the Nominations Committee, scheduled meetings and four ad hoc meetings convened to conducted an annual assessment of the Board, its committees deal with specific matters requiring Board consideration or and individual director performance.
This process was led by approval.
Due to the ad hoc meetings being called at short the Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary notice, not all the directors were available to attend these and involved: meetings due to other commitments.
the circulation of a questionnaire to each director: Number of scheduled individual meetings between the Company Secretary and meetings attended Scheduled meetings each director to provide feedback on the questionnaire and Director during the period eligible to attend any additional comments on performance: Current directors a summary of comments on an anonymous basis being John Allan Chairman 8 8 circulated and discussed with the Chairman and then John Browett 9 9 circulated to the Board: Nicholas Cadbury 9 9 a meeting between the Chairman and each director to review Rita Clifton 9 9 the responses and individual director performance: Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 2 2 Tim How 4 5 each committee considering a detailed questionnaire relating Andrew Lynch 9 9 to the relevant committees areas of responsibility and a Former directors review of feedback, together with appropriate terms of Sir John Collins 4 4 reference, at a committee meeting: Count Emmanuel dAndr 4 4 John Whybrow 8 8 Tim How was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a prior commitment made before his appointment.
The Boards normal practice is to hold meetings both in the UK DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 45 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report continued Corporate Governance and in Europe, enabling, in particular, the non-executive communication with shareholders, including approval of all directors to gain first-hand experience of markets in which the circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: Group operates and giving local management direct access changes relating to the Companys capital structure and the to members of the Board.
There were meetings of the nonMemorandum and Articles of Association: executive directors during the period without the executive the appointment, removal and remuneration of non-executive directors being present and meetings between the Senior directors and the Company Secretary: Independent Director and the other non-executive directors the terms of reference of Board committees, the Chairman without the Chairman being present.
and the executive directors: The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget: otherwise subject to reappointment by shareholders to retire review of Group performance: by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period each director is subject to reappointment by shareholders at maintaining and monitoring the Groups system of internal a general meeting.
For 2010 the Board has decided that each control and risk management: and director will retire and seek reappointment at the AGM on approval of major capital expenditure or disposals, material 8 September 2010.
Whilst not required by the Combined Code, contracts, material acquisitions and divestments.
the Board considers it best practice that directors are elected All directors have access to the services of the Company each year.
Secretary and may take independent professional advice at Details of the directors retiring and seeking re-election at the the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
AGM are set out in the Statutory Information on page 43, with detailed biographies of the Board members shown on page 40.
Board committees The Board has established a number of committees to which it Information flows has delegated specific responsibilities.
Separate reports from the The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, including to all relevant information and holds occasional meetings with details of membership and terms of reference, are set out on the non-executive directors without the executive directors pages 49 to 61.
The trading businesses are managed by being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate separate management committees and the Group has also strategy, performance and the performance of the executive established an Executive Committee as detailed below.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business and to The Executive Committee is responsible for the implementation promote open communication and team working.
of strategy and the day to day management of the Groups business.
Individuals from the Committee attend Board Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members meetings at the request of the Chairman to report on areas of senior management regularly, to undertake visits to all parts within their executive responsibilities.
Membership of the of the Group, particularly developing businesses, and to attend Executive Committee and further information relating to the external seminars on corporate governance matters.
All Executive Committee members can be found on page 41. directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
All Board committees operate within written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on request from the A corporate governance framework has been approved by the Company Secretary.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of Board which defines the role and responsibilities of the constituent their meetings and those of the Executive Committee and the elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables the Company Secretary is the secretary to the Executive Committee.
Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups activities so as to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Board has a formal Relations with shareholders and other stakeholders schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, a copy of The Board attaches considerable importance to the which can be found on the corporate website.
maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders and The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: its other stakeholders.
Relationships with suppliers, employees approval of the interim statement and Annual Report and and the community are further discussed in the CR Review Accounts including the review of critical accounting policies on pages 35 to 39.
Effective two way communication with and accounting judgements and an assessment of the institutional investors and analysts is established through regular Companys position and prospects : presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group approval of interim and final dividends: Communications Director.
The Chairman holds occasional the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual on the recommendation of the Audit Committee: interest including corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvas opinion when deciding remuneration policy.
Matters arising from these 46 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Responsibility and accountability Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Services Authoritys Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The inside information to ensure the protection of such information Board delegates to executive management the day to day that has not already been made available generally to the responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks Companys shareholders.
facing the Groups operations, and for implementing and maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks The Board receives and reviews an investor relations report in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature at each of its meetings.
The Senior Independent Director is and scale.
Senior management is responsible and accountable available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that for internal control and risk management and for ensuring cannot be resolved through normal channels and non-executive compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The AGM provides an opportunity for Inherent limitations and continuous improvement the Board to communicate directly with shareholders and In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM and related documents aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the means that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
It follows that the meeting with separate resolutions being proposed on each Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and substantially different issue.
In addition to the interim report and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve annual report and financial statements, shareholders can obtain business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not information about the Group from the corporate website.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups approach to managing and monitoring internal control Pension schemes and risk assessment is reviewed regularly to identify ways in The Group operates a number of defined contribution and which it can be improved and further embedded throughout defined benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme, which the Groups operations.
Where significant weaknesses are operates in the UK, comprises a funded defined benefit section identified, these are investigated fully using appropriate internal and a defined contribution section.
The defined benefit section resources and, where deemed necessary, engaging external was closed to future accrual on 30 April 2010 with members expertise.
Detailed plans are drawn up to remedy the of this section being offered membership of the defined weaknesses and progress is monitored on an ongoing basis.
A trust holds the assets of the scheme separately from those of the Group and this trust is managed Control environment and control activities by a corporate trustee.
There are six directors of the trustee In addition to the corporate governance structure described company: two have been nominated by the Group, two have above, the Groups system of internal control and processes been selected from amongst the scheme membership and two for managing risk comprise the following main elements: are independent directors.
Asset management is delegated to the Board and management committees meet regularly to a number of independent companies whose performance is monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
budget and strategic five year plan and to consider the The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Smith re-forecasts of the Groups expected financial period end and Williamson, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Financial and non-financial performance reports Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their in varying levels of detail are produced daily, weekly and accrued benefits and a copy of the trustees annual report.
four-weekly to facilitate this review process: Further information about pensions is given in note 21 to the financial statements.
the defined lines of authority established by the Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
Internal control These include requirements for the approval and control of In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors and cash management.
The procedures in respect of on the Combined Code, the Group has established and delegated authority have been enhanced during the year and maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing revised authorities have been issued, notably in respect of the significant risks faced by the Group, for reviewing the contracts and commitments.
Details on the schedule of effectiveness of the system of internal control and for confirming matters reserved for the Board are shown on page 46: that action has been taken to remedy any significant failings or each business function has established procedures and weaknesses that have been identified.
This process, which is controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the reviewed periodically by the Board, was in place throughout the Groups assets: 52 weeks ended 1 May 2010 and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 47 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Report continued Corporate Governance appropriate controls and procedures have been established Internal audit over the security of data held on, and functionality provided The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
Its work is driven by recovery arrangements.
The Groups computer systems are a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate periodically tested and reviewed by both Internal Audit and the Groups key risks are audited on a regular basis.
Its plans the external auditors: are approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives regular reports on its findings and progress of related actions.
the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable The department also works with the businesses to promote and them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles further develop effective risk management within their operations.
Established performance review and The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk Management development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and attends all Audit Committee meetings.
areas for improvement for each member of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of human resources External auditors management: The external auditors provide further independent observations Group Treasury operates within established and documented on certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of policies and procedures.
The policies are described in their audit of the financial statements and their findings are note 22 a to the financial statements and are reviewed and presented to the Audit Committee.
The engagement and approved annually by the Board or one of its Committees: independence of the external auditors is considered annually the Groups insurance covers the material risks to the before the Audit Committee makes a recommendation to Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Board.
the Audit Committee: local management at each business unit and in those Corporate Responsibility CR functions of the Group requiring greater overview, has As set out in the Groups CR Review on pages 35 to 39 the responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant Groups CR Committee was chaired by the Company Secretary risks to their business areas together with design of mitigating throughout the period under review and the Committees controls.
They are supported in this role by the Internal Audit membership is made up of senior executives.
During the and Risk Management function: period under review the Committee met on four occasions.
The CR Committee assists the Board in identifying reputational all entities within the Group are required to adhere to common and other risks arising from the conduct of the Groups standards of internal control and corporate governance, which businesses.
The Committee does this through undertaking a are specified in documented guidance: and risk assessment to identify key risks and opportunities and then post-completion assessments are carried out following monitoring agreed mitigating action.
It makes recommendations major acquisitions.
on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on the effectiveness of systems for managing CR related matters.
Assurance and monitoring The Group Finance Director is the Board member with specific The Board oversees the monitoring system whilst senior responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other management, under the direction of the Board, is responsible CR related matters.
for maintaining the appropriate internal control systems and for managing risk at an operational level.
Independent assurance Whistleblowing from both the external auditors and Internal Audit provides The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a important input into the monitoring system.
The Board conducts confidential helpline operated by a third party.
This can be used an annual evaluation of the management of risk and the to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to processes of internal control and has established a monitoring employees.
This can range from unethical behaviour, such as framework comprising the functions set out below: fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers and employees.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee seeks ongoing assurance that the control Corporate website environment and activities described above are operating Further information relating to corporate governance including effectively.
For example, throughout the period under review the terms of reference for Board committees, a full schedule of Committee received reports from the external auditors and matters reserved for the Board, and corporate responsibility Internal Audit.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board and may be found on the corporate responsibility section of the the Audit Committees review of the effectiveness of the internal corporate website.
controls is formally reported to the Board on an annual basis.
48 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10
