Corporate governance Corporate governance Governance Practice Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the financial year ended 26 December 2010.
The purpose of this report is to give a clear sense of how the Group, through the Board and Executive Committee, seek to achieve high standards of corporate governance through its structures and procedures.
The Board shares the belief that good governance supports the long term success of the Company and that the key focus should be on behaviours not process and therefore corporate governance should never be just a compliance exercise.
We believe that governance assists us in our goal to treat our shareholders, employees, customers, franchisees and suppliers in an appropriate way all of the time, which benefits our brand and ultimately all of our shareholders and stakeholders.
We also recognise that governance extends beyond the boardroom and seek whenever possible to develop a broad understanding of governance within our franchisees and all other stakeholders.
The role of the chairman in leading the board, the role of the non-executive directors in challenging executive directors and helping on strategy through the mix of experience, skills and independence that they possess are principles that the Company already embraces.
In the light of changes within corporate governance expectations, the Directors and I believe that the Companys Board already exhibits the requisite behaviours and is therefore well prepared to meet the more comprehensive, qualitative requirements of the future.
Stephen Hemsley Chairman 40 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Adam Batty Company Secretary Governance principles The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 26 December 2010 are contained in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance as updated and published by the FRC in June 2008 the Code and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main Market of the LSE to describe in their annual report their approach to corporate governance in terms of adherence to the Codes main principles and also non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
On the basis of reporting against these two elements of the Code, shareholders should be able to make a judgement of the Companys corporate governance positioning in relation to the Code which represents best practice.
The Code is available under the heading Corporate Governance at www.
How did we comply with the Code?
The Board considers that the Company has complied in all respects with the provisions of the Code for the year ended 26 December 2010, except as follows: A3.2 Less than half the Board excluding the Chairman comprising independent Non-Executive Directors part of year only : and A4.1 Not a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors comprising the Nominations Committee part of year only.
These are explained in more detail in the sections below.
The information required by DTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee section of this report on pages 45 and 46 and the information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, other than that required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors report on pages 34 to 39.
During 2010 there have been a number of commentaries and reviews on UK corporate governance, largely as a result of the recent economic downturn.
Perhaps the most significant reviews have been the review of the Code by the FRC and Sir David Walkers review of the governance of banks and financial institutions.
The review of the Code led to the publication of the New Code which applies to financial years commencing on or after 29 June 2010.
Therefore the New Code will not apply to the current year under review but several of the key themes of the New Code are consistent with the Companys current approach to corporate governance.
The Company must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the DTRs, together with certain related provisions in the 2006 Act.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41 Corporate governance continued Board of Directors Board composition and independence From the start of the year under review until 30 March 2010, the Board comprised two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, four of whom were independent of management and free from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision A.
3.1 of the Code that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and independent judgement.
On 30 March 2010, Dianne Thompson retired as an independent Non-Executive Director and Stephen Hemsley moved from Executive Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman.
On 13 July 2010, Lance Batchelor was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director.
Therefore, from 13 July 2010 to 26 December 2010, the Board once more comprised of two Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, four of whom were independent.
The independent Non-Executive Directors through their diversity of experience, backgrounds and insight from other businesses, play a key governance role in protecting shareholders interests and complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
All of the NonExecutive Directors bring independent judgement to the Boards deliberations and have a mindset to do what is right.
Individually and collectively they bring constructive challenge to the Executive Directors and ensure that the key business strategies are challenged, discussed and reviewed.
For part of the year under review, as less than half of the Board comprised independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board composition was not in accordance with provision A.
3.2 of the Code, but the Board is of the view that at all times there has been a suitable balance on the Board.
The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the decision making process.
There is a common purpose of promoting the overall success of the Company and a unified vision of the definitions of success and the appropriate risk.
The Board believes it continues to have the optimum blend of individuals to provide support and challenge to the Executive team and in so doing create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
At the 2010 AGM, Stephen Hemsley switched from Executive Chairman to Non-Executive Chairman.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, this division of responsibilities having been reviewed and amended by the Nomination Committee to reflect the move of the Chairman to a non-executive capacity.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executive Officers responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray have served on the Board of the Company for eleven years.
Due to their respective material shareholdings in the Company and, in Colin Halperns case, because of his previous executive role, neither Colin Halpern nor Nigel Wray is considered an independent non-executive director for Code purposes.
However, the Chairman and the rest of the Board have confirmed again that both Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray bring extensive knowledge and business experience to the Board that is invaluable to the continued success of the Group.
Through the Nomination Committee, the Board ensures that plans are in place for the succession of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
As evidence of this, the Company announced on 21 January 2011 that Lance Batchelor would be taking up the role of Deputy Chief Executive Officer on 27 June 2011, with a view to succeeding Chris Moore as Chief Executive Officer at a date to be confirmed in 2012, following the completion of a satisfactory transition process.
The Board has put such an arrangement in place to secure an outstanding candidate and to ensure a smooth transition and the ongoing success of the Company.
The Board has decided to implement provision B.
7.1 of the New Code with immediate effect at the 2011 AGM and therefore each Director will now retire voluntarily and submit themselves for annual re-election.
In light of the planned switch by Lance Batchelor to an executive role with effect from 27 June 2011, the Nomination Committee has commenced a search for two new independent non-executive directors so as to ensure compliance with the Code in terms of board composition and independence.
The Board considers that Lance Batchelor will retain his independence as a Non-Executive Director until he takes up the role of Deputy Chief Executive on 27 June 2011.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 55.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours.
42 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Senior Independent Director Michael Shallow is the Senior Independent Director and the chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of both the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Board responsibilities and processes The Board makes and reviews major business decisions and monitors current trading against plans which it has previously approved.
In addition, it exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which is reviewed annually and which is published on the Companys website.
These matters include changes to the Companys capital structure, acquisitions, significant contractual commitments, reviewing corporate governance arrangements, review of major risks and mitigation strategies and capital expenditure.
There were nine scheduled Board meetings in the period ended 26 December 2010, together with an off-site strategy and business planning day.
Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with corporate and transactional matters between scheduled meetings as appropriate.
The executive and non-executive elements of the Board maintain a close dialogue as appropriate between meetings.
The Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present at least annually.
The independent Non-Executive Directors meet at least twice during the year, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
The table below shows the attendance of Directors at regular Board meetings and at meetings of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees during the year.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided with all of the papers and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss matters arising directly with the Chairman and or Chief Executive Officer.
Members attendance during the period ended 26 December 2010 Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9 1 2 3 Executive Directors 1 Stephen Hemsley 9 Chris Moore 9 Lee Ginsberg 9 Non-Executive Directors Colin Halpern 8 1 John Hodson 9 2 3 Peter Klauber 9 2 3 Michael Shallow 9 1 2 3 2 Dianne Thompson 2 1 1 1 Nigel Wray 9 3 Lance Batchelor 4 1 1 1.
Stephen Hemsley was Executive Chairman until 30 March 2010, whereafter he became Non-Executive Chairman.
Dianne Thompson retired from the Board and each committee on 30 March 2010.
Lance Batchelor was appointed to the Board on 13 July 2010 and to the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 21 September 2010.
In line with 2006 Act, the Board introduced procedures for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the whole Board for authorisation as necessary.
All new conflicts are required to be disclosed as and when they arise.
There is an annual review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register of Directors conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Information and professional development Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or the Company Secretary submitted to the Board, together with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee papers circulated one week prior to the relevant meeting to allow adequate time for review and preparation.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive Officer briefs the Directors on results, key issues and strategy.
At most Board meetings, a senior manager is invited to make a presentation to the Board and there are a number of formal and informal social occasions each year which enable the Board members to meet senior management.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend major franchisee events to gain further insight into the business.
For 2011, the Non-Executive Directors will be encouraged to spend additional time within the business, especially in the stores themselves and at the Companys head office.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 43 Corporate governance continued All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company Secretary is a matter specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Any questions shareholders may have on corporate governance matters, policies or procedures should be addressed to the Company Secretary.
Newly appointed directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Company and its activities.
The programme will usually include an overview of the business model and the Board processes, meetings with the Executive team, senior managers and major franchisees, site visits and briefings on key governance and compliance issues.
The Board also recognises the importance of ongoing training and education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is kept under review by the Company Secretary, who is responsible for Director induction and the on-going training of Directors.
The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its directors and officers, although no cover exists in the event directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Board effectiveness evaluation Each year the Board undertakes a formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness, its committees and each Directors own contribution.
For the year under review, an external independent consultant was used.
The process included for the first time, one on one interviews with each Director and a presentation to the Board of the key findings and recommendations.
The challenge of how to drive better governance in the business was addressed, particularly independent challenge around leadership strategy and succession and ensuring greater interaction outside of the formal structure of the Board and its committees.
Output from the Board effectiveness evaluation exercise was compiled into a report which was discussed between the Chairman and the rest of the Board and the output will be further considered by the Nomination Committee especially in the forthcoming recruitment of two new independent Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience is represented on the Board and that the Board and its committees continue to work effectively.
The way the Board operates in 2011 will be influenced by this evaluation exercise.
For example, for 2011, it is envisaged that a number of the Board meetings will have an extended format to allow more time for in depth analysis and discussion.
The Senior Independent Director meets with the Non-Executive Directors and uses a tailored questionnaire to assess the Chairmans performance and effectiveness.
This review also takes into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews Executive Directors performance when it reviews remuneration packages each year.
Relations with shareholders The Board is committed to having a constructive dialogue with all shareholders to ensure that the Group understands what is important to them and to allow the Group the opportunity to regularly present its position.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer meet current or potential significant shareholders in the UK, US and mainland Europe to gain a first-hand understanding of their concerns and key issues.
In addition, there are investor roadshows, LSE announcements, analyst briefings, meetings with management and site visits.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive Directors are available for meetings with shareholders as required.
Feedback from brokers analysts and from shareholder meetings is provided regularly to the Board.
The annual general meeting offers the opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders during the meeting and also after the formal proceedings have ended.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All proxy votes received in respect of each resolution at the annual general meeting are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld are indicated.
The results are announced at the meeting and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Board sees the Annual Report as a key method of communicating with shareholders and allowing them to gain a fuller understanding of the Boards strategic vision for the Company and what underpins delivery against this strategy in terms of financial performance and prospects.
Committees The Non-Executive Directors fulfil a key role in corporate accountability through their presence on the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These Committees are properly authorised under the constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf of the Board within the parameters laid down by the Board.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees and any issues requiring resolution are referred to the full Board as appropriate.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each Committee and attends each meeting.
The Committees of the Board each have written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are reviewed annually and are available on the Companys website.
44 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as new directors of the Company and as company secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and leadership needs of the Group, as well as making recommendations for the membership of the other committees.
It regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and has a rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors.
During the year it led the process for the recruitment of an independent, Non-Executive Director following Dianne Thompsons retirement on 30 March 2010.
The services of an external headhunter were retained for this search process, with the Nomination Committee providing the initial brief and reviewing prospective candidates before involving the wider Board in the final interview selection process.
As a result of the search, Lance Batchelor was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director on 13 July 2010.
In recommending to the Board the appointment of Lance Batchelor as an independent Non-Executive Director, the Nomination Committee placed great emphasis on the new skills and highly relevant marketing, retail and technology experience that it felt Lance Batchelor would bring to the Board.
Dianne Thompson was the chairperson of the Nomination Committee until her retirement on 30 March 2010.
Between 30 March 2010 and 21 September 2010, Michael Shallow an existing Committee member acted as interim chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The other member is Colin Halpern, meaning it comprised a majority of independent non-executive directors for only approximately half of the year, in contravention of provision A4.1 of the Code.
The Nomination Committee is also responsible for reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
It met once formally during the year to consider the Board evaluation results for 2009 and the process for and appointment of a new Non-Executive Director.
As part of regular informal communications between Nomination Committee members, the Nomination Committee also had initial discussions during the year on potential succession to the role of Chief Executive Officer.
Lance Batchelors appointment as Deputy Chief Executive Officer, which was announced on 21 January 2011, was a decision taken by the full Board with the full support and agreement of the other members of the Nomination Committee, given the significance of the appointment and Lance Batchelors position as chairman of the Nomination Committee at the time the decision was taken to consider him for the role.
It was not felt necessary by the Nomination Committee or the Board to use the services of an external head hunter for the recruitment of the new Deputy Chief Executive Officer, given the extensive process that had been undertaken to recruit Lance Batchelor as a Non-Executive Director and his outstanding suitability for the role.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management in order to attract and retain leaders of the highest quality.
It also monitors the levels and structure of remuneration for senior management.
Throughout the financial year, the members of the Remuneration Committee were John Hodson chairman of the Committee, Michael Shallow and Peter Klauber.
On 21 September 2010, Lance Batchelor was appointed to the Committee.
Dianne Thompson left the Committee when she retired as a Director on 30 March 2010.
At all times during the financial year, the Remuneration Committee comprised only independent Non-Executive Directors.
At the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive Officer attends as appropriate.
The Committee met twice this year.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee, its activities during the year and an explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneration principles of the Code are set out in the Report on Directors remuneration on pages 48 to 59.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing the Groups financial statements for the full and half year, monitoring its internal controls and risk management system further details of which are set out below, and for corporate governance matters.
The Audit Committee also oversees the dedicated whistleblowing facility for all employees, which allows them to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Company and the external auditor is maintained, which includes reviewing fees and non-audit services.
The Audit Committee also has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditor.
The members of the Audit Committee throughout the financial year were Michael Shallow chairman of the Committee, John Hodson and Peter Klauber.
Dianne Thompson left the Audit Committee when she retired as a Director of the Company on 30 March 2010.
The Board has determined that the chairman of the Audit Committee has requisite experience in accounting and financial management and that the other members have the experience and skills necessary to contribute meaningfully to the deliberations of the Audit Committee.
At the invitation of the chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, the Financial Controller and representatives of the external auditors regularly attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
When appropriate, the Audit Committee has private meetings with the external auditors during the year and the chairman of the Audit Committee holds preparatory meetings with senior management prior to Committee meetings.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 45 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
In the year ended 26 December 2010, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by reviewing matters including: the major risk register and changes therein: the audit fee payable to the Groups external auditor: the Groups financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval, having reviewed the external auditors related reports: the external auditors audit plan for the FY2010 accounts, which included details of the proposed audit fee and confirmations of auditors independence: the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and control weaknesses and a consideration of the Companys response to any such occurrence: and the structure of the comprehensive annual report on the Groups system of internal control the actual report was reviewed by the Committee in January 2011 and testing schedule for FY2011.
Risk Management and Internal control Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the Groups risk management system is designed both to encourage entrepreneurial spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully understood and managed.
In anticipation of the application of the New Code, the Board has decided to expressly recognise its overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness within the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
The Directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board delegates responsibility for implementing the Groups strategic plan, maintaining the necessary control systems and for management of the Group to the Executive Committee, which comprises the two Executive Directors and eight members of senior management with valuable operational experience, all of whom are directors of the Groups main operating company, Dominos Pizza Group Limited DPG.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as a director of DPG.
The attendance of senior management departmental heads facilitates the communication of the Executive Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
The Executive Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas except those reserved for Board decision and meets formally every week which facilitates the addressing of financial, human resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental to its continued growth and success and therefore active management of operational and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that these are maintained as valuable assets.
There is an ongoing, embedded process across the business, which has been in place for the whole year, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
Risks are prioritised according to their expected likelihood of occurring and impact if they were to occur, both on the business and on employees and stakeholders in the business.
Detailed mitigation strategies have been worked up.
The register and the updating process for the register is managed by the Company Secretary who oversees the process at an operational level through the holding of quarterly meetings with the risk owners on the Executive Committee.
The results are then reviewed by the Audit Committee and at least annually by the Board, in order to assist with their annual assessments of all material internal controls.
All key business activities including franchising, marketing, procurement and information technology are controlled by the Executive Directors, with all activity being organised within a defined structure built around responsibility and authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: a comprehensive, prioritised risk register which is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, Board and Executive Committee: defined authorisation levels over all departments as part of a comprehensive contracts authorisation and execution policy the Authority Policy : a monthly reporting pack that is circulated in advance of each Board meeting which includes consolidated management accounts.
Each period annual budgets and forecasts are compared against actual performance: daily statements of system sales and royalty income.
Rolling cashflow forecasts and forecast banking covenant compliance is regularly tested: a system whereby all invoices presented for payment are reviewed by the Accounts Payable team in Finance to ensure that they have been authorised in accordance with the Authority Policy.
All on-line banking payments are authorised by two finance managers and the weekly invoice payment run is reviewed and approved by the Chief Financial Officer: the financial reporting process includes control and reconciliation processes which ensure there is an audit trail between the Groups operations and the consolidated financial statements and describes the system and controls that are to be applied.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial performance and position of the Group are appropriately recorded: and a comprehensive system of health and safety training and compliance monitoring.
Best practice management tools have been introduced and a health and safety committee established with representatives from and meetings at each production facility.
46 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie The Group has in place an experienced insurance broker to advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group both corporate insurance and the franchisee insurance programme.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys, with guidance from its brokers, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Audit Committee reviews at least annually, on behalf of the Board, the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by undertaking reviews covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems and the Board reports to shareholders that it has done so.
The Committee also seeks regular feedback from the external auditors on internal control as part of its review of the interim and annual financial statements.
As a result of such reviews, necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant identified control failings or weaknesses.
After comprehensive debates on two separate occasions during the year, the Audit Committee concluded that the process review would not be enhanced by a formal internal audit function, given the nature of the Groups operations.
This position will be subject to annual review by the Audit Committee.
Through the monitoring processes described above, during the year the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviewed the effectiveness and structure of the system of internal controls.
The Audit Committee satisfied itself that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks that has been in place for the period ended 26 December 2010 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, that it is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee, and that it meets the requirements of the Turnbull guidance for directors on the Code.
This review has not identified any failings or weaknesses which the Audit Committee has determined to be significant.
Audit Independence The engagement and independence of external auditors is considered annually by the Audit Committee before it recommends their appointment to the Board.
During the year under review, the audit partner was rotated in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards and the auditors own audit partner rotation policy and the Audit Committee were closely involved in the new appointment.
As at the date of this report and for the year under review, the Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, is independent, sufficiently challenging on management and that there are adequate controls in place to safeguard its objectivity.
The external auditor is also subject to professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the auditing role.
There is a formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by the auditors in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards.
Under this policy, any appointments in respect of non-audit work require the prior approval of the Audit Committee within an established budget and no non-audit work can be undertaken where there is an identifiable risk that the work of the individual from the external audit firm could conflict or compromise the quality or independence of the audit.
This prohibits the external auditors from providing certain additional services to the Group such as bookkeeping, internal audit, valuations and financial systems design and implementation.
The only non-audit work carried out by the external auditors in FY2010 was an IT effectiveness review.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees for 2010 are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board Adam Batty Company Secretary 1 5 February 2011 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 47
