Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance is one of the cornerstones of the success of the organisation and I believe that the systems, procedures, processes and controls that Drax has in place provide assurance to the Board and its stakeholders of a well governed business.
Charles Berry Chairman Compliance with the Combined Code It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2010, there has been full compliance with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code 2008.
The Combined Code is available at: www.
cfm This section describes in broad terms how the Company is organised in terms of the overall structure and principal roles and responsibilities of the Board, its committees and other significant bodies.
Board of directors Board Committees Audit Nominations Remuneration Chief Executive Executive Committee The Board of directors As at 21 February 2011, the Board consisted of the non-executive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and three executive directors.
The directors are named in the Directors report on page 45 and their principal commitments outside the Group are described within their biographical notes on pages 40 and 41.
The Board meets at least six times each year and more frequently if appropriate.
In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider Group strategy.
Chairman Non-executive directors Executive directors Charles Berry is the Chairman, having been appointed on 17 April 2008, and having served as an independent non-executive director of the Company since December 2005.
He had no material business or other relationship with the Company, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect his independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore considered that Charles Berry was independent on appointment as Chairman.
Charles Berry is also Chairman of Eaga plc Eaga.
On 7 January 2010, the Group announced that it had entered into a contract with Eaga to outsource the provision of services in fulfilment of the Groups carbon emissions reduction obligation under the Community Energy Saving Programme, which came into effect on 1 September 2009 and runs until 31 December 2012.
Further detail is contained on page 105 under Related party transactions.
Dorothy Thompson is the Chief Executive and is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing, was agreed by the Board on 14 December 2005 and was reviewed and varied by the Board on 23 October 2006.
Tony Quinlan is the Finance Director.
He is responsible for the financial management of the Group, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
Peter Emery is the Production Director and is responsible for the operation, safety, repair and maintenance of the electricity generation plant at the power station and for the Drax site.
Governance Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 49 Tim Barker is the Senior Independent Director.
Tim Barker, Mike Grasby and David Lindsell have served the Group as independent non-executive directors throughout the year ended 31 December 2010.
Tim Cobbold, Jamie Dundas and Tony Thorne, served the Group as independent non-executive directors for only part of the year ended 31 December 2010.
Jamie Dundas retired as a director on 21 April 2010.
Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold were appointed as directors by the Board in accordance with Article 79 of the Articles of Association on 29 June 2010 and 27 September 2010 respectively.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive director.
Mike Grasby was the manager of Drax Power Station between 1991 and 1995, whilst the power station was owned by National Power plc.
He has never been an employee of the Company or the Group.
The Board considered that at the time he was appointed as a non-executive director, sufficient time had elapsed from his previous association with Drax Power Station such that it did not affect his independence of character and judgement.
Mike is to retire as a director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 13 April 2011.
None of the non-executive directors who have served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
The Articles provide that one-third of directors, not including directors appointed by the Board, rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third AGM following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
During the year, the Nominations Committee considered the requirements for directors to retire by rotation, together with the provisions of the Combined Code to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Nominations Committee met on 15 February 2011, following the completion of the Board evaluation process.
The Nominations Committee also noted that the UK Corporate Governance Code provides for the annual re-election of all directors and whilst the provision of that Code is intended to apply in respect of financial years commencing on or after 29 June 2010, the Nominations Committee and the Board have determined that it will adopt this provision with immediate effect.
Accordingly each of Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Peter Emery, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan and Dorothy Thompson will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold will each retire at the forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 50 concluded that the directors offering themselves for election or re-election in line with the provisions contained in the Articles continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry expertise to their particular role and perform effectively.
The election and re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the relevant terms of appointment and service agreements appear on page 69.
Mike Grasby has stated that he intends to step down from the Board having joined Drax in December 2003 and therefore will not be seeking re-election.
He will retire as a director at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 April 2011.
Details of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 69.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, in the case of the independent non-executive directors, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years and, as required by the Combined Code, any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of office beyond six years is the subject of a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a director remains in office after six years, will be conducted annually, as part of the evaluation of the Board.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk: the internal control and risk management policies: the business plan and principal performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a scheme of delegation approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During 2010 no director sought independent legal advice pursuant to the policy.
The Articles give the directors power to approve conflicts of interest.
The Board has adopted a procedure by which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation and recorded.
Under the Articles certain conflicts of interest do not need to be authorised, for example an interest as a director of a group company.
Generally the nature and extent of any conflict of interest must be disclosed before it can be authorised or before it is permitted without being authorised but the Articles provide for some situations in which disclosure is not required where knowledge can be presumed and disclosure is unlikely to be necessary.
The Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in group companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
During the year, the Company undertook a review to evaluate the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
This was performed by Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit, an independent strategic governance consultancy that has no other connection with the Company.
Independent Audit conducted individual interviews with each director, the Company Secretary and members of the senior management group.
A written report was presented to the Board, and Independent Audit attended a Board meeting to present and discuss the conclusions of the report.
In addition, Independent Audit met separately with the Chairman to discuss the findings of the review generally, and with the Senior Independent Director to discuss the performance of the Chairman.
The main conclusions of Independent Audits review were that the Board was strong and appears well equipped to meet the challenges ahead.
In particular, the composition and mix of the Board were appropriate with a strong cadre of non-executive directors with a broad range of relevant experience.
In addition, the Board benefits from a management team that is receptive to and recognises the value of challenge.
The report made a number of recommendations which would enhance Board effectiveness, all of which the Board is taking account as part of the process of continuing improvement.
The Board intends to improve the process for reviewing past decisions and lessons learnt and maintain regular visits by the non-executive directors to the different Group locations.
During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, and the Senior Independent Director held meetings with the non-executive directors without the Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically again review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an induction, including being provided with information about the Group and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and visits to the Groups sites.
In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites and meets with senior management to be briefed on the Groups business at least annually, and specific Board training days are arranged involving presentations on relevant topics.
Governance Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 51 Committees of the Board The Board has established the following standing committees: Committee Membership Audit Committee David Lindsell as Chairman, Tim Barker, Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne.
Nominations Committee Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker, Tim Cobbold, Mike Grasby, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne.
Remuneration Committee Tim Barker as Chairman, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Mike Grasby, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne.
Notes: 1 Jamie Dundas was a member of Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees until he retired from the Board at the conclusion of AGM on 21 April 2010.
2 Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne joined each of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees on the same date that they were appointed to the Board, namely 27 September 2010 and 29 June 2010 respectively.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 55 to 72.
The terms of reference for these Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Groups website at www.
The Board attaches particular importance to its scrutiny of health and safety performance, systems and procedures.
The section headed Internal control on page 52 makes reference to steps taken by the Board to strengthen the Groups system of internal control during the year.
One such step is an increase in the level of independent scrutiny of health and safety controls.
Prior to the adoption of the Risk Management Policy, this was carried out by the Health and Safety Committee which included one non-executive director and two executive directors.
Following the adoption of the Risk Management Policy, the Health and Safety Committee has been discontinued and the Safety, Health, Environmental and Production Integrity Committee SHEPIC has been established with responsibility to assist the Production Director in the operation and implementation of risk management and internal control processes.
Its activities are reviewed by the Audit Committee, which provides assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of the health and safety controls.
In addition, the SHEPIC reports directly to the Board at least annually.
There is also an Executive Committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Executive Committee membership currently comprises: Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Sean Ebnet Director of New Business, Peter Emery Production Director, Philip Hudson Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary, Tony Quinlan Finance Director and Paul Taylor Director of Trading.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings, and attendance at them by directors of the Board, Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, and Health and Safety Committees of Drax Group plc during 2010.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Time on Time Health 1 the Board with Drax Audit Nominations Remuneration and Safety 2 years months years months Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Tim Barker 5 2 6 6 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Charles Berry 5 0 5 0 7 7 3 3 3 3 Tim Cobbold 0 3 0 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 Jamie Dundas 4 0 4 0 3 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 Peter Emery 5 2 6 6 7 7 2 2 Mike Grasby 5 2 7 0 7 7 3 3 3 3 2 2 David Lindsell 2 0 2 0 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Tony Quinlan 2 4 2 4 7 7 Dorothy Thompson 5 2 5 3 7 7 1 2 Tony Thorne 0 6 0 6 4 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited, up to 31 December 2010.
2 In addition to the Board meetings identified above, there have also been three teleconference calls to discuss various matters and there is a meeting held annually to consider strategy.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place for the year under review up to the date of approval of the Annual report and accounts 2010.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, the Board strengthened the Groups system of internal control through the adoption of a new Risk Management Policy which is the principal document governing the objectives and requirements of the Groups internal control and risk management processes.
The policy stipulates the structure by which identification and analysis of risks and clear designation of accountability, together with effective risk management processes, ensure that risk management is embedded within the Group.
Risk Management Committees assist the business directors in the operation and implementation of the risk management process in all areas of the Groups business, and provide a source of assurance to the Audit Committee that the process is operating effectively.
There are now five Risk Management Committees, which are as follows: the Corporate Risk Management Committee: the Haven Risk Management Committee: the New Business Risk Management Committee: the Safety, Health, Environmental and Production Integrity Committee: and the Treasury and Commodity Risk Management Committee.
The Board has also adopted the practice of receiving annual reports from each Risk Management Committee, and receives monthly reports on particular risk areas including health and safety and commodity trading.
The Groups risk management process aims to be comprehensive, systematic and continuous.
Its key features include the identification and recording of the main risks facing the Group in a risk register with clear allocation of management responsibility for risk identification, analysis and control.
The risk register is used by management and by the Risk Management Committees to ensure that risks are identified, analysed and managed systematically and appropriately.
It lists all of the significant risks faced by the Group, records the level of severity and probability, ownership and mitigation measures for each risk.
In addition, the Group has comprehensive and well defined control policies with clear structures, delegated authority levels and accountabilities.
During the year, the Executive Committee reviewed the risk management process and the controls applicable to the most significant risks facing the Group.
The Group has a system of planning and monitoring, which incorporates Board approval of a rolling five year Business Plan and approval, towards the end of each year, of operating and capital expenditure budgets for the year ahead.
Performance against the budget is subsequently monitored and reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Board also receives monthly reports on trading risk exposure as compared to the pre-set limits and monitors overall Group performance against a Balanced Corporate Scorecard BCS which shows progress against a set of financial, operating, safety and other targets set at the start of the year.
Performance is reported formally to shareholders through the publication of Group results.
Operational management make frequent reports on performance to the executive directors.
The Group also has processes in place for business continuity and emergency planning.
Through the Audit Committee the Board has implemented a programme of internal audit reviews of different aspects of the Groups activities.
The programme, which is reviewed and updated annually, is designed so that, over time, all facets of the business are reviewed to ensure appropriate systems of control are in place and are working effectively or, where they are not, deficiencies are rectified by timely and appropriate action.
In agreeing the actions to be taken in response to each report, the aim is always to embed internal controls, including measures intended effectively to identify and manage risk, within each area of the Groups operations.
In parallel with its work in relation to internal audit, the Audit Committee also satisfies itself that an action plan for dealing with points raised by the external auditors in their yearly management letters is being properly addressed by management.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
It has reviewed the reports of the Audit Committee, which has considered all significant aspects of internal control including financial, operational, trading, compliance, social, environmental and ethical risks in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and updated in October 2005.
Following its review the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
Governance Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 53 Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include the Annual report and accounts, AGMs and periodic reports to the London Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website www, draxgroup.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with the Groups major shareholders and communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity to meet in order that he can understand their views on the Group, be it corporate governance issues or any other points they might wish to raise.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the USA.
These took place following both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2010.
The Group has also engaged Makinson Cowell Limited, an independent capital markets consultancy firm, to advise and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, approximately 1% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
This Annual report and accounts together with other public announcements is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Business review, see pages 2 to 39, provides an assessment of the Groups affairs.
This Annual report and accounts is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and the accompanying Form of Proxy provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a regulatory information service and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and accounts, Remuneration Committee report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the consolidated financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Regular review meetings are held with the website administrators to ensure that the website is continually maintained to a high standard.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dorothy Thompson Tony Quinlan Chief Executive Finance Director 21 February 2011 21 February 2011
