Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 58 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee the Committee consisted of Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker Senior Independent Director, Tim Cobbold from 27 September 2010, Jamie Dundas until 21 April 2010, Mike Grasby, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne from 29 June 2010.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The principal duties of the Committee are to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it, to consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers, to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among the directors and to review the time required from non-executive directors.
It also reviews those directors retiring by rotation in accordance with the Companys Articles and makes recommendations to the Board regarding their re-election.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2010, and the members attendance record is set out on page 51.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting and, subject to redaction in the event that they include personal information, the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
During the year, the Committee considered the succession planning process for the directors and senior managers and concluded that it was appropriate for the business.
The outcome of the process which it initiated for the review of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors is reported in the Corporate governance report on page 50.
During the course of the year, the Committee conducted an external search with the assistance of an executive search consultancy for a suitable candidate to replace Jamie Dundas, who retired from the Board and the committees on which he served on 21 April 2010.
Following the recommendation of the Committee, the Board decided to appoint both Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold on 29 June 2010 and 27 September 2010 respectively.
The Board considered that their skills and experience would benefit the Board and complement the existing skill set and meet the objective of the planned progression in refreshing the Board.
As is noted on page 49, the Committee met on 15 February 2011, following the completion of the Board evaluation process, and determined that each of Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Peter Emery, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan and Dorothy Thompson will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 50 concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and perform effectively.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the Annual General Meeting, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 21 February 2011.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee
