GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and application of sound Summary of Board changes in the year Month Change corporate governance.
This report explains the key features of the Groups governance structure, how it applies the principles set out in the August 2009 Mr R E C Marton retired from the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC Combined Code Board, Audit, Remuneration and on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 the Combined Code Nomination Committees.
and the extent to which the Company has complied with the provisions December 2009 Mr J C Nicholls was appointed as a of the Combined Code.
non-Executive Director and joined the The Company has complied throughout the financial year with all the Audit and Nomination Committees.
provisions of the Combined Code, except as stated on page 43 in January 2010 Mr R G Beeston stepped down as Senior respect of Nomination Committee membership Combined Code A.
4.1, Independent Director but remains on the in respect of Audit Committee membership Combined Code C. 3.1 and Board.
Mr C J Bunker was appointed as in respect of Remuneration Committee membership Combined Code Senior Independent Director.
The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance Mr A D Thorne retired from the Board and May 2010 policy.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting Nomination Committee and as Group Chief principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Executive.
Mr M W Roberts was appointed Remuneration Report.
The Companys Auditors have reviewed the to the Board and as Group Chief Executive compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for and joined the Nomination Committee.
Mr G Davis was appointed as a June 2010 BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES non-Executive Director and became The role of the Board a member of the Remuneration, The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of Audit and Nomination Committees.
the Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
Mr Davis will become Chairman of the The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Company within a Remuneration Committee at the end of framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be June 2010. assessed and managed.
Mr Nicholls will become Chairman of the The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary Audit Committee at the end of June 2010. financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year.
During the year In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and under review it met nine times.
All Board members attend all Board and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are understood relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances prevent and met.
During the year, Mr P J-C Mellier did not attend the May 2009 Board and the May and June 2009 Remuneration Committee The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and five meetings due to previous commitments.
He was unable to attend the non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group Chief additional Board meeting held in July 2009 as it was held at short notice.
During the year, each of the non-Executive He was also unable to attend the Board meeting held in October 2009 Directors has at all times acted independently of management and has due to ill health.
Mr Beeston did not attend the Board meeting and the no relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their Remuneration Committee meeting held in March 2010 due to ill health.
There were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by It is recognised that Mr Beeston was not considered a fully independent any Director.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and non-Executive Director after 5 December 2009 because of his length Group Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors and of service, however, the Board believes that Mr Beeston continues to hold informal meetings with non-Executive Directors to discuss issues demonstrate strong independence in judgement and, during the year affecting the Company.
Individual Directors are encouraged to make site under review, provided leadership for the Remuneration Committee.
The Board reviews the performance of the Group and undertakes a strategic review on an annual basis.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for consideration and approval by the Board.
These include the annual Plan, substantial acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the full-year and half-year results and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles effectively.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place for any Director to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, corporate governance developments and changing commercial risks.
On appointment, new Directors are given appropriate induction training, tailored to their specific needs, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience, which includes individual 42 www.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING time with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Group Finance The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least three Director and site visits to major business units.
times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined Code except the oversight of business risks which is the direct responsibility of Following an independent review in 2009, the Board carried out a the Board.
The primary objective of the Audit Committee is to assist the comprehensive appraisal of its performance in February 2010 which Board in fulfilling its responsibilities relating to: was led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
The review comprised feedback from a questionnaire and individual the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the discussions.
All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in Groups accounts: the exercise.
The results were discussed by the Board at its meeting in external financial reporting and associated announcements: March 2010.
The process confirmed that each of the current Directors has sufficient time, knowledge and commitment to contribute effectively to the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration the Board and its Committees.
The review results showed an improvement of the Groups Auditors: from the previous year indicating that the Directors considered that no the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Group Operational major changes were required to Board and Committee processes.
In Audit department: particular, the Board in the past year had achieved a good balance between consideration of matters relating to the short-term economic crisis the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control environment: and longer-term strategic issues.
All Directors had been fully engaged in and a well-structured succession exercise for both the Group Chief Executive the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate and non-Executive Directors.
Useful comments and suggestions were Governance.
made as to how the performance of the Board might be further improved.
These included more contact with divisional management, ideas on the The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external reporting of action points arising from previous meetings and more Auditors, the Head of Operational Audit and the Group Finance contact between the Group Chief Executive and non-Executive Directors Director.
Under its terms of reference the Committee is empowered to between meetings.
It was also agreed that the Nomination Committee seek independent external advice but did not do so during the year.
should increase its focus on succession planning at levels below the The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine annually Board.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted a review their qualifications, expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, and of the performance of the Chairman which concluded that the Chairman effectiveness.
The Audit Committee receives written confirmation from the had led the Board effectively.
The non-Executive Directors apart from external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a bearing on Mr Beeston who was unable to attend due to ill health met separately their independence, whether they consider themselves independent within with the Chairman in March and all the non-Executive Directors and the the meaning of the UK regulatory and professional requirements, their Executive Directors met in March to give them the opportunity to discuss quality control processes and ethical standards.
any matters they wished to raise in the absence of the Chairman.
In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the Auditors, the Board Committees Committee maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor Independence The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Policy which covers services which may be provided by, and fees paid Nomination Committees.
All Board Committees have written terms of to, auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated with the Group Finance Director reference agreed by the Board.
These are available on the Companys and approved by the Audit Committee.
The policy on the supply of website at www.
asp or non-audit services by external auditors is as follows.
The Group should are available on request to the Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee not employ the Auditors to provide non-audit services where either was chaired by Mr Bunker from 2004 until the end of June 2010 and the nature of the work or the extent of such services might impair the will now be chaired by Mr Nicholls.
The Remuneration Committee was Auditors independence or objectivity.
The external Auditors are permitted chaired by Mr Beeston from 2001 until the end of June 2010 and will to undertake some non-audit services, providing they have the skill, now be chaired by Mr Davis.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Mr P M Johnson.
The membership of each Committee and the experience Group, on, for example, advisory services and due diligence activities of its members can be seen on pages 40 and 41.
The Audit and associated with potential acquisitions and disposals and major changes Remuneration Committees comprised independent non-Executive in accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and fees are reported Directors for the majority of the year.
However, Mr Beeston is no longer to the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit considered an independent non-Executive Director since December 2009 fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of the by reason of his length of service Combined Code C. 3.1 and B.
2.1. annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprised a majority of independent nonDuring 2009 10, non-audit fees were 15.6% of the annual Group audit Executive Directors for most of the year.
According to Combined Code fee.
Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required by A.
4.1, Mr Beeston is no longer considered an independent non-Executive this Policy which specifies that individual projects which would cost over Director since December 2009 by reason of his length of service.
100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee for prior As mentioned in the Chairmans Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston approval.
The outcome of these reviews was not only that performance will be retiring from the Board at the end of 2010. of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was the most cost-effective Audit Committee way of conducting business but also that no conflicts of interest existed In addition to the Committee members listed on pages 40 and 41, the between such audit and non-audit work.
Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit partnership, was first Head of Operational Audit and the Group Financial Controller attended appointed as Auditor to the Group companies in 2006 and its fees are parts of each meeting by invitation.
Mr Marton ceased to be a member regularly compared with peer companies by the Committee.
There are of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 31 August 2009. no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its appointment.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Bunker had current and relevant financial In accordance with professional standards, the partner responsible for experience during his Chairmanship of the Committee and that the audit is changed every five years.
Mr Nicholls has both current and relevant financial experience.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 43 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance continued During the year, the Committee met on three occasions and there were no The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the absences.
On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company with both the external Auditors and the Head of Operational Audit.
Secretary and for advising on the remuneration of senior management.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private meetings The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 46 to 55.
During the year, during the year with the external Auditors, the Head of Operational the Committee met four times.
Mr Mellier did not attend the meetings in Audit and the Group Finance Director.
The Committee received sufficient, May and June 2009, and due to ill health Mr Beeston did not attend the reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its meeting in March 2010, but otherwise there were no absences.
The Committee is satisfied that the Groups executive The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board compensation arrangements do not prejudice robust controls and performance evaluation process described above.
Other Board Committees At its meeting in June, the Committee reviewed the annual financial The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, to statements of the Company and received reports from Group Operational the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief Audit on internal control matters and from the external Auditors on the Executive and the Group Finance Director under the chairmanship of the conduct of their audit, their review of accounting policies, areas of Group Chief Executive.
judgement and the financial statements and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal control.
A similar review was undertaken Conflicts of interest in December when the half-year results were considered.
At these The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board of Directors to meetings and the meeting in April, the Committee dealt with the following authorise a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest notified by a particular matters: Director provided that the Board considers this to be in the best interests of the Company.
at the year end a series of tests were undertaken to determine whether there had been any impairment to the balance sheet carrying values Each of the Directors in office as at 1 October 2008 reviewed their of goodwill and other intangible assets.
The key assumptions behind individual positions prior to implementation of the new legislation these calculations can be found in note 10 to the financial statements: and new Directors review their individual position prior to joining the Board.
Directors are reminded from time to time of their obligations.
at each meeting it received a report from the Head of Operational The Company has put procedures in place via the Company Secretary Audit covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the whereby the Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential conflicts Group Operational Audit function and management responses to of interest that may arise so that the Board can consider whether proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during authorisation is appropriate.
Any notifications are considered at the next the year: Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors do it considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and reporting not participate in the discussion, or vote regarding their own conflicts.
on risks faced by the Group: If authorised, any conflicts are entered in the Conflicts Register.
it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee An annual review of conflicts is carried out and this is incorporated into as part of the Board evaluation process referred to on page 43, the the year-end process of verifying Directors interests.
external Auditors and Group Operational Audit, the results of which RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS were reported to the Board.
The Committee concluded that each area The Company has a programme of regular meetings which sometimes operated satisfactorily during the year: and includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, site visits it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the and results briefings with its major institutional shareholders, which Groups Workplace Malpractice Policy.
provides opportunities to discuss the progress of the business.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Nomination Committee Authoritys Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of inside information to Mr Marton ceased to be a member of the Committee when he resigned ensure the protection of such information that has not already been made from the Board on 31 August 2009 and Mr Thorne ceased to be a available generally to the Companys shareholders.
The Board also member of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on 4 May receives feedback from major shareholders in the form of independently 2010.
Mr Nicholls became a member of the Committee in December prepared reports.
Together, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group 2009, Mr Roberts became a member in May 2010 and Mr Davis Finance Director, and Head of Investor Relations ensure the Board is became a member in June 2010.
The Nomination Committee evaluates fully briefed on shareholders views such that any issues or concerns are the balance of skills, knowledge and experience including the length fully understood and considered by the Board.
The Senior Independent of service of each Director of the Board, develops role specifications, Director is available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that considers the appointment of Directors, reviews succession planning at cannot be resolved through normal channels.
Board level, identifies the skills required of future directors and makes recommendations to the Board as a whole.
A rigorous process is in The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate place for the appointment of new Directors, involving the use of external with private shareholders, including a short presentation on the business recruitment consultants followed by meetings both with the Committee and and current trading position as well as an opportunity for questions from then with the Board.
The Committee met four times during the year and investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit there were no absences.
All Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders at the Annual General Meeting after the formal The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board business of the meeting.
To ensure compliance with the Code, separate performance evaluation process described above.
resolutions are proposed on each discrete subject.
The number of proxy Remuneration Committee votes for, against and withheld for each resolution are displayed at the The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings Meeting.
The final results are published through a Regulatory Information by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.
Service and on the website following the Meeting.
com BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTICE OF MEETING Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the full-year and half-year reports and via the Companys website, the Groups system of internal control.
This included a process of selfwww.
In addition, the Company provides Interim certification by senior divisional management in which they were asked Management Statements and Trading Updates.
to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control weaknesses identified INTERNAL CONTROL during the past year.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal the Groups Operational Audit function and the risk identification and control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system, however, management processes identified above.
can only be designed to manage rather than to eliminate risk and can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against GOING CONCERN material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Committee A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors guidance the Company has established the procedures necessary to likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and out on pages 16 and 17 in the Group Chief Executives review of the managing the significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been year.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position in place for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2010 and up and borrowing facilities are shown in the Consolidated Statement to the date of the approval of these financial statements and they are of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the reviewed regularly.
In 2008, a Group Risks Committee was established, accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on comprised of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the pages 60 to 105 and in the Financial Review on pages 28 to 31.
Group Human Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and Chief Executives and the Head of Operational Audit.
This Committee process for managing its capital, its financial risk management meets at least four times a year to review the risks faced by the Group objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and the adequacy and suitability of the mitigation arrangements in place and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the to manage those risks.
section covering risk management on pages 32 and 33.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Group.
Managements review of liquidity and the adherence to banking It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which are required to covenants takes into account the Groups budget and forecasts for the be brought to it for decision.
The Board has delegated to management next two financial years.
Furthermore, the forecasts have been subjected the responsibility for establishing a system of internal control appropriate to a number of downside and mitigation scenarios in order to evaluate to the business environments in which the Group operates.
Key elements the impact on liquidity and adherence to banking covenants if the of this system include: Groups plans are not achieved.
A summary of the outcome of this evaluation by management has been provided to, and discussed with, a set of Key Corporate Values which have been communicated to the Board of Directors.
all employees: In arriving at their opinion, the Directors have taken into account the a clearly defined divisionalised organisation structure for monitoring risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current economic the conduct and operations of individual business units: environment.
These risks are described in the section covering risk clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the management pages 32 and 33.
The planning assumptions and matters reserved for the Board: sensitivities of these risks are covered on pages 32 and 33.
The principal risks and uncertainties which would have a direct impact on liquidity and a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Groups banking covenants are summarised below: operations are identified and assessed on a regular basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration is changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Groups products embedded in decision-making processes.
The most significant risks are and services as a result of general economic conditions or marketperiodically reported to the Board and considered by it: specific factors: the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional and volatility of pricing and availability of globally-traded raw materials: Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of volatile energy prices: the corporate strategy: movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates: the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, forecasts including bank covenant headroom and the previous year, the funding position of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme: with explanations obtained for all significant variances: the continuing availability of banking facilities, including compliance clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, with borrowing covenants: and including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, customer credit risk.
acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: The Directors consider that the Group has the flexibility to react to procedures manuals laying down common control procedures and changing market conditions.
policies to apply throughout the Group: and The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties as summarised formal monthly meetings between the Group Chief Executive, the above and, after making enquiries, including a review of recent Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss performance, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time of strategic, operational and financial issues.
approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, that there is a The Groups Operational Audit function undertakes regular reviews reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to of the Groups operations and their systems of internal control and continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this internal financial control.
The work of the function is overseen by the reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 45
