Dunelm Group plc 17 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report explains how the Group has applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the 2008 version of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code during the financial year.
The Board considers that the Groups governance complied with the Combined Code.
The Board has reviewed the new UK Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 and has agreed actions during the 2010 11 financial year to bring its governance arrangements into line with this new code.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
The Board has 10 scheduled meetings per annum, including one strategy meeting.
There was full attendance at all Board meetings during the year except that Simon Emeny was absent from one Board meeting.
The Board has reviewed the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which is available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management, and approval of Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive reports on operational performance including health and safety and the Finance Director reports on financial performance.
Other matters are discussed by the Board as required, supported by a briefing paper where a decision is to be made by the Board.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and committee secretaries respectively and circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet from time to time without Executive Directors being present, and regularly have individual meetings with other senior managers in the business.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present as part of the Board effectiveness review process.
Directors The Non-Executive Chairman is Geoff Cooper and the Chief Executive is Will Adderley.
The Board has adopted a written statement setting out their respective responsibilities.
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business.
The other Non-Executive Directors during the year were Marion Sears, Simon Emeny and Nick Wharton appointed on 14 August 2009.
David Stead is an Executive Director.
The Senior Independent Director is Marion Sears.
Subsequent to the year-end, it has been announced that Will Adderley will take on the new role of Executive Deputy Chairman.
He will be replaced as Chief Executive, after a handover period, in February 2011 by Nick Wharton.
The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on appointment, and that Marion Sears and Simon Emeny are independent.
The Board further considers that Nick Wharton was independent during the year ended 3 July 2010.
Following the announcement of his appointment as Chief Executive he ceases to be so.
It is the Boards intention to recruit an appropriately skilled new Non-Executive Director in due course.
Directors are required to retire from the Board by rotation and offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Board committees The Audit Committee was chaired during the year by Nick Wharton, the other members being Marion Sears and Simon Emeny.
The Board considers that Nick has recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of his professional qualification and his executive role as Finance Director of Halfords Group plc.
The committee has adopted terms of reference which are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
The committee is scheduled to meet at least three times a year, to coincide with key dates in the Groups financial reporting and audit cycle.
During the period under review it met in September, February and May with full attendance.
The Group Chairman and the Finance Director usually attend meetings by invitation, along with a representative from the external auditors.
The principal responsibilities of the committee are to: monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance: oversee the external audit process, including the appointment of the auditors, their objectiveness and independence and the scope and effectiveness of the audit: Dunelm Group plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate governance report continued monitor the effectiveness of internal controls and consider annually the need for an internal audit function: and review the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
During the year the committee: approved the full year results issued in September 2009 and the interim results issued in February 2010: decided that an internal audit function was not required in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place and low level of complexity in the business: confirmed the Groups policy for use of the auditors for non-audit advice: and verified the independence of the auditors, and approved the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
The committee met privately with the auditors in the course of each meeting during the period.
The committee has approved a policy that the auditors should only be used for non-audit work if they offer demonstrably better capability than alternative providers and there is no potential conflict with the independence of the audit.
The committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, the other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny.
Nick Wharton was a member of the committee during the year but was not involved in meetings considering the selection of a new Chief Executive.
The committees responsibilities include: reviewing the composition and balance of the Board: Board succession planning: and making recommendations on appointments to the Board including reappointments at Annual General Meeting.
The committee met in July 2009 with full attendance to approve the appointment of Nick Wharton as Non-Executive Director.
In making this appointment, the committee chose to rely on its own research into potential candidates rather than engaging an external search consultancy, in the belief that committee members themselves would be better placed to identify individuals likely to fit well with Dunelms unique culture.
The committee recognised in particular that Nick would bring a combination of retail business experience from Halfords Group plc and Boots Group plc and relevant finance experience to allow him to take over chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
The committee met on numerous occasions during 2010 to consider the appointment of a Chief Executive in succession to Will Adderley.
An executive search consultancy was engaged to assist in this process.
It was recognised that the qualities leading to Nick Whartons appointment as a Non-Executive Director also made him a strong candidate for the Chief Executive role.
From that point, Nick Wharton did not participate in meetings concerning the Chief Executive succession.
The committee keeps under constant review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, as well as the mix of skill-sets and experience possessed by the Board as a whole.
The committee remained satisfied that the Board contained an appropriate mix of individuals during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Marion Sears, the other members are Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny.
Nick Wharton was a member of the committee during the year.
The Chief Executive normally attends by invitation.
The committees responsibilities include: recommending to the Board the specific pay and benefits packages for the Executive Directors, including pensions and any compensation payments: recommending and monitoring the level and structure of pay and benefits for senior management: and implementing any awards made under share incentive schemes.
During the year the committee met four times with full attendance and: determined the pay reviews and incentive arrangements for Executive Directors: determined the annual bonus payable to Executive Directors in respect of the year ending 3 July 2010: and approved conditional share awards to be made to Executive Directors under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan and other share incentives to be offered to senior management and other employees.
Dunelm Group plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2010 Following the year end the committee met, without Nick Wharton, to determine the remuneration package of the new Chief Executive.
Further details of the committees activities are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 23.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his office be vacated if he is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
Powers of Directors In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code, and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or Committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman and Chief Executive respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company in 2007, 2008 and 2009 the Board sought and was given authority to issue shares and to buy back and reissue shares, subject to the limits imposed by law and those set out in the text of the resolution.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the authority to buy back shares is used.
For further details see pages 27 and 28 of the Directors Report and Business Review, and the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is sent separately with this report.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
Training Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a comprehensive induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other staff members.
As part of each Directors annual review any additional training or development needs are addressed.
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular series of visits to stores and meetings with members of the senior management team.
The Board has also received presentations from independent advisers on financial policy and on retail sector trends.
Evaluation The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive with regard to personal objectives agreed at the start of each financial year.
The Chief Executive similarly appraises the performance of the Finance Director.
There is a well established process for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, the other Non-Executive Directors, the Board Committees and the Board as a whole.
This takes the form of a Board meeting convened solely for the purpose of such review.
During the course of this meeting there is the opportunity for the Chairman or other individual Directors to be asked to leave the discussion whilst their performance is assessed.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, new Articles of Association were adopted which give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Dunelm Group plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate governance report continued Only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest and, in taking that decision and the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
Following the adoption of the Articles of Association, all Directors were requested to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and the following matters were considered and approved: Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Will Adderley continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders Geoff Cooper is a director of Travis Perkins plc: and Nick Wharton is a director of Halfords Group plc, each of which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Geoff Cooper is not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either company: and Nick Wharton to absent himself from any meeting of the Company in which property matters are to be discussed and a conflict of interest might arise.
There were no other matters disclosed that were considered by the Board to give rise to a conflict of interest.
Any conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 29 and voting rights are stated on page 27.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
Risk management and internal control Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
This will be reviewed in the light of the revised Turnbull Guidance which is due to be issued later in 2010.
A register of major strategic and operational risks is maintained and reviewed regularly by the Board, which also monitors the status of agreed actions to mitigate key risks.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss and misstatement.
The Group maintains a well established control framework comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well understood policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human resources management, customer service, health and safety etc.
The Executive Directors monitor compliance with these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
It does not consider that this is necessary in view of the adequacy of internal and risk management controls and reporting in place, and the low level of complexity of the business.
Investor relations There is a formal investor relations programme based around results presentations and trading statements.
In addition analyst shareholder visits are arranged.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are available to attend meetings at shareholder request.
The Chairman and Executive Directors feed back any investor comments to the Board.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
