38 Corporate Governance Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance The Board continues in its determination to aim for the highest standards of corporate governance and professional integrity.
In accordance with the Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company is required to state whether it has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code and where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
The Company is also required to set out how it has applied the principles set out within the Code.
A copy of the Code is available http: www.
The following paragraphs together with the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 37 provide details of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
Operation of the Board The primary roles of the Board are to determine overall strategy and business objectives, ensure structure and capital are sufficient to meet business needs, maintain and monitor effective systems for financial reporting, internal control, contracts and communication, regularly review Board membership, consider remuneration issues upon recommendation from the Remuneration Committee, to delegate authority as appropriate, ensure standards of corporate governance are maintained and attend to other Company policies.
All of these functions are recorded in a Schedule of Matters reserved to the Board for its decision approval.
Throughout the year the Board was again led by its Chairman, Charles Berry, who also chaired and continues to chair the Nomination Committee.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which has been agreed by the Board and set out in writing.
Roger Aylard fulfilled the role of Senior Independent Director SID throughout the year.
All Directors have disclosed any additional appointments or other business interests outside of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors have at all times been independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In reaching this view the Board has considered the relationship between the Company and Stratagem NI Limited in which Quintin Oliver is a director.
Stratagem provide political consultancy services to the Company.
The fees received by Stratagem from the Company throughout the year were 24,000 which equates to a little over 2% of Stratagems turnover.
The Chairman has discussed this specific relationship with major shareholders, none of whom regard the relationship as material, nor impacting upon Quintins independence.
Having taken these factors into account the Board have determined that Quintin Oliver remains independent.
Roger Aylard started a new business in partnership with two other individuals called Citywise Partners which offers training in Investor and City relations.
The partnership undertook a one-off project for the Company during the period for which it was paid a fee of 3,500.
The Board regard the payment of such a fee as immaterial and one which does not impact upon Rogers independence.
Charles Berry is Chairman of Drax Group plc.
On 7 January 2010 the Company announced that it had entered into a contract with Drax to deliver its entire CESP commitment.
Charles position as Chairman of Drax is a matter of public record and is approved by the Board as a Relevant Situation within the terms of Article 104.2 of the Companys articles of association.
He withdrew from all discussions relating to contract negotiations between the parties.
The Board operates three committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, to which it has delegated certain specific responsibilities and each of which operate within Board approved terms of reference.
The terms of reference of each committee can be viewed on the Companys website.
Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee was chaired by Malcolm Simpson who was supported by three independent Non-Executive Directors: Quintin Oliver, Tracy Clarke and Roger Aylard.
The Committee has at all times consisted and will continue in the future to consist of not less than three independent Non-Executive Directors one of whom will have recent and relevant financial experience.
Malcolm Simpson, the Chair of the Committee and former Finance Director of Greggs plc has been assessed as having this relevant financial experience.
A quorum is two members and the Committee has met and shall continue to meet a minimum of four times each year.
There were five meetings during the year.
The Committees main functions are to endeavour: to ensure that the accounting and financial policies of the Company are proper and effective: to monitor the integrity and clarity of the financial statements and information published by the Company: to review the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and approach to risk management: to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function: to assess the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and to set policy regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to appointment of external auditors.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference on 26 August 2010.
Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance 39 The Committee, in performing these functions, reviews the annual and interim financial statements issued to shareholders, compliance with financial reporting standards and the size and remit of the internal audit function.
The Committee determines the scope of the external audit in discussion with the external auditors and agrees their fees in respect of the audit.
The Committee has a policy relating to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors which provides that the total fee payable for such work in any financial year should not normally be more than 80% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
The Chair of the Committee normally meets the Chief Financial Officer and the internal audit team with the Chief Executive in attendance outside of scheduled Committee meetings.
Time is also set aside annually for discussion between the Committee, the external auditors and the internal audit team in the absence of all Executive Directors.
The Committee, in common with all of the Non-Executive Directors personally, has the authority to engage and take advice from independent external advisors if it sees fit at the Companys expense.
The Committee also has access to the services of the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Tracy Clarke.
Additional members were Malcolm Simpson, Quintin Oliver and Roger Aylard.
All are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee has at all times consisted of not less than three members who are independent Non-Executive Directors.
A quorum is two members and the Committee meets a minimum of twice each year.
The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy including benefits, pension arrangements and termination payments relating to the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management of the Company ensuring market compatibility and structures necessary to ensure appropriate levels of remuneration and incentive.
The Committee reviewed its terms of reference on 21 July 2010.
The full Remuneration Report can be found at pages 32 to 37.
Nomination Committee During the year the Nomination Committee was chaired by Charles Berry.
Additional members were, Dave Routledge who stood down from the Committee on 23 July 2009, Quintin Oliver, Roger Aylard and Drew Johnson.
Tracy Clarke and Malcolm Simpson were appointed to the Committee on 26 August 2010.
The Committee has at all times contained a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
A quorum is three members two of whom must be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee meets a minimum of once each year.
There were four meetings during the year.
The Committees role is to make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and to support and assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities to shareholders in ensuring that the Board comprises of individuals who are best able to fulfil the responsibilities of Directors.
The Committees responsibilities include: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board together with assessing the skills, knowledge, expertise and diversity of individual Directors: establishing processes for the review of the performance of individual Directors, Board Committees and the Board as a whole: establishing processes for the identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board: preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Board appointment: giving full consideration to succession planning for the Board: and reviewing the performance of any Director retiring by rotation who is planning to stand for re-election.
The Executive Directors service contracts and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours.
Evaluation Having undergone an external performance evaluation process which was undertaken by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA in 2008 the Board undertook an internal evaluation process both in 2009 and 2010.
This process is internally crafted, but externally facilitated and involves the collation and presentation of data by an external third party provider followed by individual meetings between the Chairman and each member of the Board in order to collate direct feedback and prepare recommendations as appropriate.
The process for 2009 highlighted the desire for improvements in the administration of Board papers, increased focus on Non-Executive Director update training and greater exposure to tiers of management below main Board and Executive Committee level.
40 Corporate Governance continued Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance continued Evaluation continued Significant improvements have been made in all of these areas.
The process for 2010 included structured questions concerning the effectiveness of the Board in its roles and responsibilities and was completed in August 2010.
The general conclusion was the Board was operating effectively.
Whilst the balance on the Board was considered to be appropriate, attention was paid to the need to ensure an effective mix of skills when considering Director succession planning.
Relationship with Shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective investor relations and communication programme as part of its ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and broker analysts, providing them with such information that is appropriate and necessary on the Companys progress and future plans as is permitted under the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, twice a year, following announcement of the interim and full-year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer where they have the opportunity to raise any questions as appropriate.
The Company has also arranged presentations to shareholders to share with them plans for a specific innovative project relating to the installation of solar PV systems onto social residential housing across the country.
The Companys main institutional shareholders have been advised that in line with the provisions of the Code, the SID and the other Non-Executive Directors may attend those briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested to do so.
The Chairman is briefed periodically on investors perceptions and such issues are discussed in the context of regular Board meetings.
The Chairman has met personally with the major investors to discuss the Companys business and strategy generally and to listen to any feedback they had and address any issues they wished to raise.
The AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop their understanding of the Company and ask questions of the Board on matters put to the meeting including the Annual Report and Accounts.
Financial Reporting The financial position of the Company and its Group companies has been and will continue to be presented in a number of ways during the year to ensure shareholders and potential shareholders can make a balanced assessment of the Company.
This includes: Interim Management Statements: Half-yearly Report and Accounts: and Announcements regarding significant developments and contract wins which may affect the share price.
Going Concern The Directors confirm that after having reviewed the Groups budget and projected cash flows they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and its Group companies have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Attendance at Meetings The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year.
The Board consider eight formally scheduled meetings per year enable it to properly attend to the business of the Company.
The Board however does arrange additional telephone conferences to ensure that all Directors are kept up to date with any material developments and will, as necessary arrange formal telephone conferences if a decision is required on any matter reserved to the Board that cannot be attended to at a scheduled meeting.
Such telephone conferences whether they involve the taking of any decision or not are not represented within the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of meetings held 8 5 5 4 Meetings attended: Roger Aylard 8 5 5 4 Charles Berry 8 4 Tracy Clarke 7 4 5 Drew Johnson 8 4 Ian McLeod 8 Willie MacDiarmid 5 of 5 Dave Routledge 7 1 of 1 Quintin Oliver 8 5 5 4 Malcolm Simpson 8 5 5 Appointed 14 December 2009 Eaga Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance continued 41 Risk Management The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and risk management.
The matters contained within the Matters Reserved to the Board ensure that the Directors control all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
Dave Routledge is the designated Executive Director with responsibility for health, safety, environment and security and chairs the RRB which meets monthly.
Dave formally reports to the Board upon such issues at each Board meeting.
The Board as a whole also undertake an annual review of all major risks as reported upon during the course of the year.
During the year appropriate levels of insurance were in place to cover Directors actions or omissions.
Internal Control The Company has complied throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts with the provisions of the Code relating to internal controls as required by the UK Listing Authority.
It has implemented the procedures necessary to comply and report in line with the Turnbull Guidance published in October 2005 on internal control.
The Board is responsible for implementing and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The system is designed to manage the risk of failure to achieve business objectives rather than eliminate that risk and cannot therefore provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The established internal control framework is continually reviewed and updated as appropriate to take into account the changing nature of the Groups business.
The system which has been in place during the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts contains the following key elements: the Company has a dedicated risk management team and a RRB which is comprised of the Executive Committee, the Director of Health Safety Environment and Quality, the Group Risk Manager, the Head of Internal Audit and is chaired by Dave Routledge.
The RRB monitors and evaluates the risk registers compiled by each business area within the Group.
The major risks facing the business together with any mitigating action proposed and whether the action has been effective is reviewed by the Executive Directors and presented to the full Board at each Board Meeting.
The RRB reports to the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis regarding the effectiveness of the risk identification process and of the action plans for the mitigation of such identified risks.
the Company has an established integration process to ensure the risk management processes are introduced to any newly acquired business from acquisition with a plan to fully implement those systems as soon as reasonably practicable after acquisition.
the Company has a clearly identified organisational structure with defined reporting lines, duties and accountability.
There are defined authorisation limits for individual managers, with transactions being approved at the appropriate level of authority.
All parts of the business are required to comply with the policies and procedures set out in the Groups finance manual.
financial forecasts are prepared by the senior management and approved by the Board on an annual basis.
Operational management have a monthly accountability review with the Executive Directors to identify any variances between forecast and actual results and to agree any necessary corrective or mitigating action.
Financial results and cash flows, including a comparison against forecast are reported to the Board at each Board meeting and forecasts are updated quarterly throughout the financial year.
appropriate treasury policies are in place.
the Company has a formal whistleblowing policy for Partners who wish to raise any issues of concern relating to the Companys activities on a confidential basis.
All concerns reported are investigated by senior management.
the Groups internal audit team reports to the Audit Committee and the Board at least twice a year on the outcomes of work undertaken which follows an approved internal audit programme.
The role of the Audit Committee is detailed earlier in this report.
the review of the effectiveness of internal controls carried out did not identify any significant weaknesses in internal controls.
Compliance with the Code The Directors consider there has been compliance with the Code throughout the year ended 31 May 2010.
On behalf of the Board Christopher Judd, Company Secretary 2 September 2010
