Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Nomination Committee The principal role of the Committee is to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of new Directors, both Executive and Non-executive, including the Chairman.
This involves: evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a particular appointment: overseeing the search process: and arranging for all members of the Board to meet any preferred candidate before any formal recommendation to the Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
Membership of the Committee The members of the Committee during the year were as follows: Philip Rogerson Chairman David Hamill Ken Hanna appointed 21 October 2010 Russell King Robert MacLeod Nigel Northridge resigned 31 August 2010 Rupert Soames The majority of the members of the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
Peter Kennerley is Secretary to the Committee and Siegfried Putzer, Group Human Resources Director, also attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
Main activities of the Committee during the year The Committee focused on three main tasks during the year.
The first was the selection and appointment of a new Non-executive Director.
This involved agreeing on the qualities we were looking for in our new Board member, appointing independent search consultants and interviewing candidates.
As noted above, we also make sure that all members of the Board have the opportunity of meeting our preferred candidate before we make a formal recommendation to the Board, and we were delighted to announce the appointment of Ken Hanna as Non-executive Director in October.
Our second task was to review Board responsibilities following Nigel Northridges retirement in August.
This resulted in the appointments of David Hamill as Senior Independent Director and Russell King as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Thirdly, we continued our review of succession arrangements within the Group.
We recognise that having the right Directors and senior management is crucial for Aggrekos success, and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that we have a robust and continuous succession planning process.
This process involves both the Committee and the full Board.
The Committee reviews the composition of the Board twice each year in June and December focusing in particular on Executive Director posts.
In conjunction with the June meeting, the full Board then looks at people and posts at one or two levels below the Board, to identify possible candidates for succession to bigger roles, individual potential and development needs and areas where we might have to recruit from outside the Group to fill a future vacancy.
We held six meetings during 2010.
As in previous years, as part of the Companys annual evaluation of Board performance, all Directors were consulted on the composition of the Board, and were of the view that it was of the right size, with the appropriate range of skills and balance between Executive and Non-executive Directors.
We explain our approach to the size and composition of the Board in the paragraph headed Non-executive Directors in our Corporate Governance report on pages 54 and 55.
Philip Rogerson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 10 March 2011 64 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
