Corporate Governance Introduction The Board Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards of The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief corporate governance.
Not many public companies state Executive, four other Executive Directors and four that they are committed to maintaining low standards of Non-executive Directors: their details are set out corporate governance, so we think it might be useful to on pages 52 and 53. state, as precisely as we are able, what we mean by this.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the First, we mean that we take governance at all levels in Board are strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital the Company seriously, and we think about it.
Second, projects over a defined limit, annual budgets, new it means that we do not slavishly follow the strictures Group borrowing facilities and significant changes and advice of every governance guru or expert body, to employee benefit schemes.
but we try to adopt those approaches that we believe are likely to work in the particular context of Aggrekos There is a defined division of responsibilities between business and culture, and which promote the following: the Non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective Transparency: giving shareholders the information working of the Board: the Chief Executive is they need to judge whether the executive responsible for the operational management of the management and the Board are doing a good business: for developing strategy and presenting it to job on their behalf: the Board: and for the implementation of the strategy as agreed by the Board.
Effective decision-making, risk management and control: Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of A proper balance between Executive and experience to the Company and David Hamill, Robert Non-executive Directors: MacLeod, Russell King and Ken Hanna are considered by the Board to be independent as defined in the Keeping the interests of the owners of the business Combined Code.
aligned with, and at the front of the mind of, the people charged with managing the business: and David Hamill is the Senior Independent Director and is available to meet shareholders if they have The ability of the Company to hear the voice of concerns which contact through the normal channels people other than shareholders who are touched of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director by it.
Principally these are regulatory and standards has failed to resolve or for which such contact is bodies, employees, customers, suppliers and the inappropriate.
communities in which we operate The New Code and the Combined Code state that being mindful of the need to keep the amount of at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, money and time spent on activities other than those should be independent Non-executive Directors.
involving making money for our shareholders to an However, the Directors believe that, beyond a certain appropriate level.
size, Boards risk becoming ineffective at control and decision-making: they certainly become more Putting governance into practice expensive as they grow larger.
Ideally, in our view, the We support the UK Corporate Governance Code Aggreko Board works most effectively, and represents published by the Financial Reporting Council in best value for shareholders, with no more than ten people sitting round the table.
June 2010 the New Code and its predecessor, the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published Applying the no more than ten round the table rule by the FRC in June 2008 the Combined Code.
The leaves nine places for executive and Non-executive New Code applies to accounting periods beginning on Directors.
Operationally, Aggreko is organised into or after 29 June 2010, so the Combined Code applied three regions, and the choice in terms of the number to our 2010 financial year.
We consider that the Group of Executive Directors sitting on the Board is two, or complied with all of the provisions of the Combined five.
The Board has concluded that the ability to hold Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 to account the line managers who run the business on with the exception of the Combined Code provision a daily basis, to get their input into decision-making, that at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, and to get the additional Board-level visibility which should be independent Non-executive Directors: comes from having these executives as part of the the reasons for this are explained in detail in the Board adds real value, and is the appropriate choice.
paragraph below entitled Non-executive Directors.
We have therefore decided not to comply with the Copies of the New Code and the Combined Code New Code or the Combined Code in this respect are publicly available at www.
54 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report only, having four Non-executive Directors, rather The attendance of Directors at meetings during 2010 than the five we would need to be in line with the is set out in the table below: RemunNomiNew Code or the Combined Code.
Board Audit eration nation Notes meetings Committee Committee Committee Board Committees Number of meetings in 2010 7 3 4 6 The Board has standing Audit, Nomination and Bill Caplan 7 Remuneration Committees and, since December 2010, Angus Cockburn 7 an Ethics Committee.
The memberships, roles and David Hamill 6 2 4 5 activities of the first three are detailed in separate Russell King 7 2 4 6 reports: Audit Committee on pages 62 and 63, Robert MacLeod 6 3 4 6 Remuneration Committee on pages 65 to 77 Nigel Northridge 1 4 4 2 2 3 3 4 4 and Nomination Committee on page 64.
Kash Pandya 7 Philip Rogerson 7 6 We established the Ethics Committee in December Rupert Soames 7 6 2010, with the principal roles of advising the Board George Walker 7 on the development of strategy and policy on ethical Ken Hanna 2 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 matters and overseeing the Companys policies and Note 1: Resigned on 31 August 2010 maximum possible number procedures for the identification, assessment, of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
management and reporting of ethical risk.
The Note 2: Appointed on 21 October 2010 maximum possible number members of the Committee are: Philip Rogerson of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
Chairman, David Hamill and Ken Hanna.
Peter Kennerley is Secretary to the Committee and Rupert The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive Soames will attend by invitation.
We will include a Directors without the Executive Directors present, and separate report from the Ethics Committee in our at least once a year the Senior Non-executive Director 2011 Annual Report.
chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and the minutes Induction, development and support of the Committee meetings are circulated to, and All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored reviewed by, the Board.
The terms of reference of induction on joining the Board, including meetings the standing Committees of the Board are available with senior management and advisers and visits to the on our website at www.
com investors Groups operational locations.
The Board calendar is corporategovernance.
planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a wide range of topics throughout the year and are given the Board meetings opportunity to visit sites and discuss aspects of the The Board generally meets at least six times a year.
We recognise that our At each meeting, the Board receives certain regular Directors have a diverse range of experience, and reports, for example covering current trading, treasury, so we encourage them to attend external seminars and environment, health and safety.
At particular and briefings that will assist them individually.
points in the year, the Board reviews budgets, capital expenditure, risks and financial statements.
The Board Directors have access to independent professional has regular updates on strategy and also reviews other advice at the Companys expense where they judge topics, such as technical or legal developments, this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities acquisition opportunities, and the competitive as Directors and all Directors have access to the environment, as appropriate.
Most Board meetings advice and services of the Company Secretary, who will have a detailed presentation by a Regional is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Director on the performance of their region.
The procedures are complied with.
Board also receives reports on how other people feel about us: they get copies of investor and analyst Election of Directors feedback, customer satisfaction metrics, and the results Any Director appointed by the Board is subject of employee surveys.
to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after his appointment.
The Companys Articles The Board generally meets in central London or at of Association the Articles also state that each the Group head office in Glasgow, but at least one Director must retire from office at the third Annual meeting each year is held at one of the Groups other General Meeting held after the Annual General locations, which gives the Directors the opportunity Meeting at which he was last elected.
However, it is to review the operations and meet local management.
a requirement of the New Code, which applies to the During 2010, for example, the Board visited our Company for 2011 and future years, that all Directors manufacturing facility at Dumbarton.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Corporate Governance continued should be subject to annual election by shareholders: Relations with shareholders accordingly all members of the Board will be offering The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual General of the Group in communications with shareholders Meeting.
It is part of the Chairmans role to discuss and believes that being transparent in describing how the time commitment and contribution of each Nonwe see the market and the prospects for the business executive Director as part of his individual appraisal, and is extremely important.
the Nomination Committee unanimously recommends the reappointment of each of the Directors.
We communicate with shareholders in a number of different ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half All of the Directors have service agreements or letters year results and trading updates are a combination of of appointment and the details of their terms are set presentations, group calls and one to one meetings.
The out in the Remuneration Report on page 77.
No full and half year reporting is then followed by investor other contract with the Company or any subsidiary meetings in all major cities where we have institutional undertaking of the Company in which any Director shareholders covering the UK, Continental Europe, was materially interested subsisted during or at the Scandinavia and North America.
We also regularly end of the financial year.
meet with existing and prospective shareholders to update them on our latest performance or to introduce Board performance evaluation them to the Company and periodically arrange a visit We have a well established process for conducting to the business to give analysts and major shareholders the annual evaluation of Board and Committee a better understanding of what goes on day to day.
The performance, using an assessment questionnaire last visit of this type was during 2010 when we invited prepared by the Company Secretary and the Chairman analysts to visit a number of our International Power which we ask all Directors to complete.
Directors Project sites in Africa and to see our contract for the grade areas such as the performance of the Board and FIFA World Cup in operation.
The presentations its Committees, the effectiveness of the Chairman, from this visit as well as all other presentations on Executive and Non-executive Directors, the monitoring the business are available on the Companys website.
of operational performance and Corporate Governance, as well as Leadership and Culture.
The advantage of The Board receives regular updates on the views of this approach is that we can compare results from year shareholders through briefings from the Chairman, to year.
The Company Secretary and the Chairman Chief Executive and Finance Director as well as write a report of the results, which is discussed by the reports from the Companys brokers and the Board and by each Committee.
In addition the results Companys investor relations advisers.
In addition, are discussed separately between Non-executive the Senior Independent Director is available to meet Directors and they also provide a background to shareholders if they wish to raise issues separately interviews between the Chairman and individual from the arrangements described above.
Directors as part of annual appraisals.
We enjoy meeting both private and institutional Overall, the results of the 2010 evaluation were very shareholders at the Companys Annual General positive but we agreed on a number of topics which Meeting, which this year will be held in Glasgow on would remain a priority for 2011, including: continuing Wednesday, 27 April.
Further details of the meeting to ensure that we had a robust succession planning are set out on page 61 and in the letter from the process: meeting the challenge of developing Chairman and notice of meeting sent with this report.
environmental and emissions regulation: regular Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote discussion of strategy throughout the year, and using the proxy card mailed to them or electronically monitoring of the political and financial risks associated as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
with the countries in which we operate.
These items have now been included in the Board calendar for 2011.
Internal control The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Combined We have reviewed the interests declared by Directors Code by establishing a continuous process for which could conict with those of the Company, and identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise are considered significant by the Group in accordance potential conicts is operating effectively.
with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring 56 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report framework covers a wide range of controls, including Review of effectiveness of internal control financial, operational and compliance controls In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined together with risk management.
It is based principally Code, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the on reviewing reports from management and considering Groups system of internal control.
whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and ensuring that any On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a significant weakness thus identified is promptly formal review that is designed to assess the application of remedied.
The Board continues to enhance and the principal financial and operational controls operated strengthen the procedures for identifying and by the Group.
The review, which is based on selfmonitoring key areas of risk.
assessment by senior operational management, is carried out using a risk review and control questionnaire and is The Board also considers financing and investment intended to complement the internal and external audit decisions concerning the Group and monitors the procedures.
There is also a comprehensive procedure for policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury monitoring all significant risks and key risks have been risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by identified on a risk register.
The Board has considered the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, as well as the actions that would be taken During each financial year the Audit Committee in response to them if they did occur.
reviews the external and internal audit work programmes and considers reports from internal and The Board has undertaken a specific assessment external auditors on the system of internal control of internal control for the purpose of this Annual and any material control weaknesses.
This assessment considered all significant responses from management regarding the actions aspects of internal control during the year ended taken on issues identified in audit reports.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group continues to have an effective system Performance reporting and information of internal control.
The Group has in place a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a detailed annual Corporate Social Responsibility budgeting process where business units prepare The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that budgets for approval by the Board.
The Group uses it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible a large number of performance indicators to measure manner, which protects the environment as well as both operational and financial activity in the business.
safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its Depending on the measure these are reported and customers and the communities in which it operates.
reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and addition management in the business receive a weekly manage responsibly environmental, health and safety and monthly pack of indicators which are the basis of risks through implementation of a comprehensive regular operational meetings, where corrective action Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management is taken if necessary.
At a group level a well-developed System that standardises best operating practices, management accounts pack including income objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, statements, balance sheets, cash ow statement as performance indicators and goals.
These policies well as key ratios related to capital productivity and are set out in more detail on pages 46 to 51. customer satisfaction scores, is prepared and reviewed monthly by management.
As part of the monthly Pensions reporting process a forecast of the current year numbers The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are is carried out.
To ensure consistency of reporting controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme the Group has a global ERP system and a global Trustee Limited: they are held separately from the consolidation system as well as a common accounting assets of the Company and invested by independent policies and procedures manual.
These segregated funds cannot be the publication of new reporting standards and work invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have closely with their external auditors in evaluating the been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two impact of these standards.
member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This fund was closed to new employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Corporate Governance continued Dividends and other distributions Share capital Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, On 31 December 2010 the Company had in issue the Company may by ordinary resolution from time 274,318,271 ordinary shares of 20p each.
Details of to time declare dividends in accordance with the the changes in issued share capital during the year respective rights of the members, but no dividend are shown in Note 21 to the accounts.
can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Rights and obligations attached to shares Board may pay such interim dividends as appear to the Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred Board to be justified by the financial position of the to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred Company and may also pay any dividend payable at on the holders of any other shares, any share may be a fixed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever issued with or have attached to it such rights and the financial position of the Company, in the opinion restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the far as the resolution does not make specific provision, holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in as the Board may decide.
consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari Voting passu with or after those shares.
Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may for the time being be held The Board may deduct from any dividend or other and to any other provisions of the Articles, on a show moneys payable to a member by the Company on of hands every member who is present in person or by or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any proxy or represented by a corporate representative at presently payable by him to the Company on account a general meeting of the Company has one vote.
On a of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the poll every member who is present in person or by proxy Company.
The Board may also withhold payment or represented by a corporate representative has one vote of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys for every share of which he is the holder.
In the case payable in respect of the Companys shares from a of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who person with a 0.25 per cent.
interest as defined in tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, is the Articles if such a person has been served with accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is failure to provide the Company with information determined by the order in which the names stand concerning interests in those shares required to be in the register in respect of the joint holding.
provided under the Companies Acts.
Restrictions on voting Variation of rights No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either personally or by proxy or by a corporate either with the consent in writing of the holders of representative at any general meeting of the Company not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the or at any separate general meeting of the holders of any issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class of shares in the Company if any calls or other class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a sums presently payable by him in respect of that share special resolution passed at a separate general meeting remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25 per cent.
of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum interest as defined in the Articles and he has been applying to any such separate general meeting is two served with a restriction notice as defined in the persons holding or representing by proxy not less than Articles after failure to provide the Company with one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of information concerning interests in those shares the class excluding any shares of that class held as required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
treasury shares, but at any adjourned meeting one holder present in person or by proxy whatever the The Company is not aware of any agreement between number of shares held by him will constitute a holders of securities that may result in restrictions on quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in voting rights.
person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for every share of the class held by him subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares and any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Restrictions on transfer of securities Director has become physically or mentally incapable in the Company of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: or v by reason of a Directors There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities mental health, a court makes an order which wholly in the Company, except that: or partly prevents that Director from personally exercising any powers or rights which that Director certain restrictions may from time to time be would otherwise have: or vi he is absent without the imposed by laws and regulations for example, permission of the Board from meetings of the Board insider trading laws : and whether or not an alternate Director appointed by him attends for six consecutive months and the pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Board resolves that his office is vacated: or vii he Services Authority certain employees of the becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors Company require the approval of the Company generally: or viii he is prohibited by law from being to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
a Director: or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies Acts or is removed from office The Company is not aware of any agreements pursuant to the Articles.
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Powers of the Directors Amendment of Articles of Association Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Companys Articles and to any directions given by Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the the Company in general meeting by special resolution, Articles of the Company, the Articles may be amended the business of the Company is managed by the Board, by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the management of the business Appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow of the Company, the number of Directors disregarding money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of alternate Directors is not less than two nor more the undertaking, property and assets present and than fifteen.
No shareholding qualification for future and uncalled capital of the Company and to Directors is required.
The Company or the Board may issue debentures and other securities, whether outright appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so or as collateral security for any debt, liability or appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the obligation of the Company or any third party.
next general meeting and shall then be eligible for election.
The Board or any committee authorised by Powers in relation to the Company the Board may appoint one or more Directors to hold issuing or buying back its own shares employment or executive office with the Company for The Directors were granted authority at the last such period subject to the Companies Acts and on Annual General Meeting held in 2010 to allot relevant such other terms as the Board or committee may in its securities up to a nominal amount of 17,985,000.
That discretion decide and may revoke or terminate any authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2011 appointment so made.
and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting for 2011.
At this years Annual General Meeting The Articles state that each Director must retire from shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to office at the third Annual General Meeting after the allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount of Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
18,301,246 and ii comprising equity securities up to However, it is a requirement of the New Code, which a nominal amount of 18,301,246 after deducting from applies to the Company in 2011 and future years, such limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in that all Directors should be subject to annual election connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, such by shareholders.
In addition to any power of removal authority to apply until the end of next years Annual conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company may General Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of by special resolution remove any Director before the business on 30 June 2012. expiration of his period of office.
The office of a Director must be vacated if: i he resigns his office by A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered at Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in writing he cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such up to a nominal amount of 2,745,186. offer: or iii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: or iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating that Director gives a written opinion to the Company stating that that Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Corporate Governance continued The Company was also authorised at the Annual Disclosure of information General Meeting held in 2010 to make market to the Companys Auditor purchases of up to 27,250,000 ordinary shares.
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies This authorisation will expire on the earlier of Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so of the Company for 2011 and 30 June 2011. far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to in the market.
The authority will be limited to a make himself aware of any relevant audit information maximum of 27,451,869 ordinary shares and sets the and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
Securities carrying special rights Indemnity of officers No person holds securities in the Company carrying Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may special rights with regard to control of the Company.
indemnify any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies Rights under the employee share scheme Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal Aggreko Employees Benefit Trust, holds 2.22% of proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
the issued share capital of the Company as at 8 March 2011 on trust for the benefit of the employees and Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the former employees of the Group and their dependents.
Company has granted indemnities to Directors and The voting rights in relation to these shares are officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of fiduciary any offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged duty or trust by the indemnified person.
to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested to do otherwise by the Company in writing.
In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain for any Director or other officer, insurance against Going concern any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover against legal action brought against The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers consider that the Group and the Company have of its subsidiaries.
adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is Supplier payment policy therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
It is the Companys policy to settle the terms and conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing Change of control each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the The Company has in place a number of agreements supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by with advisers, financial institutions and customers them.
In overall terms, the Company had approximately which contain certain termination rights which would 15 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
have effect on a change of control.
The Directors believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive Essential contractual arrangements and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly they do not intend The Company buys the majority of its generator disclosing specific details of these.
In addition, all of engines from Cummins Limited, a subsidiary of the Companys share schemes contain provisions which Cummins Inc based in Columbus, Indiana, USA.
in the event of a change of control, would result in The Company also relies upon their global service outstanding options and awards becoming exercisable, and support network for the supply of spare parts.
The subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
Companys relationship with Cummins is governed by a supply agreement which is regularly reviewed.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
60 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 a. m. on Wednesday 27 April 2011 at the Radisson BLU Hotel, 301 Argyle Street, Glasgow G2 8DL.
Annual General Meeting Special Business Special Business comprises resolutions: to authorise the Directors to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate amount representing approximately one third of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and a further one third in relation to rights issues, in line with guidance issued by the Association of the British Insurers: to disapply the statutory preemption rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value of approximately 5% of the current issued share capital: to renew the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares: and to approve the calling of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice.
Auditor A resolution re-appointing  as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Material share interests As at 8 March 2011 the Company had received notifications of the following share holdings representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: % of total Name of shareholder Number of shares voting rights Prudential plc 22,214,129 8.12 Black Rock 16,166,777 5.91 Baillie Gifford & Co 11,804,464 4.31 Alastair E H Salvesen 10,890,000 3.98 Legal & General Group Plc 10,797,375 3.96 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
Including immediate family and trustee interests.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Peter Kennerley Director of Legal Affairs & Company Secretary 10 March 2011 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61
