easyJet plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance Corporate governance The appointments of Carolyn McCall OBE and Chris Kennedy as Principles statement Executive Directors during the year were the result of search easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of processes carried out using external recruitment consultants in corporate governance.
accordance with longstanding Board practice.
Statement of compliance Meetings attended During the year, the Board considers that it and the Company have Audit Remuneration Nominations Litigation complied without exception with the best practice provisions of Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of June 2008.
The Combined Code is issued by the Financial Reporting Carolyn McCall OBE Council and is available on the Financial Reporting Councils appointed 1 July 2010 2 n a n a n a 6 website, http: www.
Chris Kennedy appointed 1 July 2010 2 n a n a n a 6 Board of Directors Andrew Harrison As at 30 September 2010, the Board comprised seven Non resigned 30 June 2010 7 2 1 n a 5 Executive Directors including the Chairman and two Executive Sir Michael Rake 10 n a n a n a 12 Directors.
Sir David Michels 10 n a 2 2 10 The roles of Chairman as fulfilled by Sir David Michels as Interim Chairman and subsequently Sir Michael Rake and Chief Executive David Bennett 9 3 2 1 10 as fulfilled by Andrew Harrison and subsequently Carolyn McCall Sven Boinet 7 n a 1 n a 8 OBE are separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Board.
John Browett 7 3 n a n a 10 Sir David Michels is the Senior Independent Non Executive Director and holds the post of Deputy Chairman.
Professor Rigas Doganis 10 n a 2 2 10 The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis, John Keith Hamill 9 3 2 n a 8 Browett, Sven Boinet and Keith Hamill as Independent Non Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Executive Directors.
resigned 14 May 2010 0 n a n a n a n a Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou who served until 14 May 2010 was not Bob Rothenberg regarded as independent due to his significant beneficial resigned 14 May 2010 5 2 n a n a n a shareholding in the Company and his prior involvement in an executive management capacity.
Bob Rothenberg who also served By invitation.
until 14 May 2010 was not considered to be independent due to With effect from 1 January 2010, Sir David Michels stood down his appointment by Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou pursuant to Article 87 from the post of Interim Chairman, taking up the post of Deputy of the Companys Articles of Association.
Chairman and Senior Independent Non Executive Director and Sir Michael Rake was appointed Chairman.
Board engagement with investors The Board has taken advice during the year from expert The Board continues to consider that it is appropriate for the management search and development consultants with a view Chairman to be the primary conduit with investors given his to both enhancing its development of key managers and reviewing experience in liaising with shareholders.
its succession planning for the top executive roles in the Company.
The Chairman has made himself available for investor meetings and Directors and officers insurance cover has been established for all questions, in person, during the year and has updated the whole Directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions on Board on the results of these meetings and the opinions of behalf of easyJet.
During the year a performance review of the investors.
The Senior Independent Non Executive Director has also Board was undertaken using an external evaluation tool provided acted as an alternative point of contact and attended meetings in by a corporate advisory company.
This process involved a detailed order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and questionnaire completed by each of the Directors and one on one concerns of major shareholders.
Regular feedback is provided to discussions with individual Directors.
The performance of the Board the Board on the opinions of shareholders and an investor including the Chairman, the Boards Committees and also that of perception audit is carried out by an independent third party on an the individual Board Directors was reviewed as part of the same annual basis.
The Senior Independent Director led the Non Executive The Board meets regularly, with 10 meetings having been held Directors in a review of the Chairmans performance which also during the year ended 30 September 2010.
All members of the involved feedback from the Executive Directors.
Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information The Board regularly receives updates, via the Company Secretary, covering matters which are to be considered.
It is standard practice on relevant legislation, regulation and governance best practice.
for the Non Executive Directors to meet without any Executive Directors present on a regular basis during the year, usually prior to or immediately after each Board meeting.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented Board Committees and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of Remuneration Committee reference is available in the governance section of easyJets At 30 September 2010, the Remuneration Committee comprised corporate website, http: corporate.
The key terms four Independent Non Executive Directors, namely Keith Hamill set out that the Audit Committee will: Chairman, David Bennett, Professor Rigas Doganis and Sven Boinet.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed monitor the internal financial control system: terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Provide an open avenue of communication among the external Remuneration Committee has met two times during the year.
auditors, financial and senior management and the Board: The Board has reviewed the composition of the Remuneration Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the Committee during the year and is satisfied that the Directors who external auditors in particular, in the context of the provision are currently members of this Committee are those who are best of additional services to the Company : able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management Shareholders are generally required to approve all new Long Term processes of the Company: Incentive Plans and significant changes to existing plans.
Further Review and monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit details of these plans can be found in the Report on Directors function and managements responsiveness to any findings and remuneration and the full text of the terms of reference for the recommendations: and Remuneration Committee is available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
Assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors on behalf of the Board.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Non Executive Directors, all The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the of whom are independent.
At 30 September 2010, the Audit external auditors.
 LLP were reappointed Committee members were David Bennett Chairman, John auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting held in Browett and Keith Hamill.
This Committee meets at least three February 2010.
In order to preserve auditor objectivity and times per year.
independence,  LLP will not be asked to provide consulting services unless this is in the best interests The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board of the Company.
Clause 9 of the Audit Committees terms in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial of reference sets out the formal policy on non-audit work.
The reports and other financial information in advance of publication, auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that reviewing on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls they have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
easyJet regarding finance and accounting that management and the Board monitors the auditors performance, behaviour and effectiveness have established and reviewing generally the auditing, accounting during the exercise of their duties, which informs, on an annual and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility for basis, the Audit Committees decision to recommend rereviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains appointment.
This included this year obtaining a report on the with the Board.
The Audit Committee has met three times during auditors own quality control procedures and a consideration of the course of the year.
their annual audit quality and transparency report.
In the financial The Audit Committee is charged with reviewing the effectiveness year, easyJet spent 0.1 million with  LLP of internal control, approving and monitoring the internal audit 2009: 0.1 million in respect of non-audit services.
work plan, considering issues arising from internal audits work, The Board is satisfied that the Directors who are currently reviewing managements response to internal control issues, members of this Committee are those who are best able to approving the external audit fee, considering the external audit contribute to the Committees objectives.
David Bennett has served strategy and plans, reviewing the external auditors reports and as the Chairman of the Committee during the year.
David was until reviewing and approving the annual accounts.
Both internal and 31 July 2009 an Executive Director of Abbey National plc prior external auditors are given the opportunity to meet privately to which he was Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director of with the Audit Committee without any member of management Alliance and Leicester plc, experience which the Board considers present.
It is standard practice for the external auditors to meet to be recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking the role with the Audit Committee without the Executive Directors being as Chairman of the Committee.
present at each Audit Committee meeting.
easyJet plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee Internal control The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control During the year, the Nominations Committee members were and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Sir David Michels Chairman, David Bennett and Professor Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed Rigas Doganis.
control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by Board positions and for making recommendations on Board their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance composition and balance.
In appointing Non Executive Directors, against material misstatement or loss.
the Boards practice is to use external recruitment consultants.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness The Nominations Committee has met twice during the year to deal of the system of internal control during the year under the auspices with the appointments of the Chief Executive and Chief Financial of the Audit Committee.
No material failings or weaknesses were Officer.
The searches for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial identified during the course of this review.
Officer both involved the use of independent recruitment consultants.
The internal control regime is enhanced by the operation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The system is operated by a The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are specialist external third-party service provider and allows employees documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the to report concerns in confidence on a no names basis.
The Audit terms of reference is available in the governance section of easyJets Committee has approved the processes and reporting structure corporate website, http: corporate.
for the function and receives regular reports on the operation Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee of the function.
considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job Risk management specifications prepared include details of the time commitments A formal process is in place to identify, evaluate, manage and report expected in the role.
upon significant risks faced by the Company.
The process involves a On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and regular, rigorous, mandatory reporting regime across middle tier tailored induction.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity management with reporting of risks subject to review by the to meet new Directors.
Executive Management Team which produces consolidated risk reports to the Board.
As at year end the Internal Audit and Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made Company Secretarial functions were undertaking a review of risk available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
reporting with a view to enhancing the process.
Litigation Committee An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been As a result of the proceedings brought by easyGroup IP Licensing defined by the Directors and has been adopted as follows: Limited a company under the ultimate control of Sir Stelios HajiIoannou in 2008 in relation to the clarification of the brand licence, Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the the Board continues to operate a separate Litigation Committee to various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded deal with the proceedings and all matters related to them.
Neither into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou nor Bob Rothenberg as his nominee sat those conducted continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational on this Committee which comprises every other Director of the meetings include the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to Board.
It is anticipated that the Committee shall continue to exist discuss safety, security and environmental risks.
The Safety Review until the proceedings and any related circumstances giving rise to a Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to conflict of interest between Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannous interests and review safety performance.
In addition, there are regular those of the Company have been resolved.
Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings: The Executive Management Team meets quarterly to consider Relations with investors and the significant current risks.
Individual department and overall business Annual General Meeting AGM performance is reviewed.
The reporting of significant risks to the The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate Executive Management Team and the Board of the Company has directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with been enhanced by the risk management processes referred to institutional investors on key business issues.
easyJet has an investor above: relations department which runs an active investor relations Written reporting of current significant risks is provided to the programme to facilitate engagement with investors including one Board on a quarterly basis.
Control weaknesses or failings are on one meetings, visits to easyJets operations and presentations.
considered by the Board if they arise: The investor relations website can be accessed at http: corporate.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39 Internal audit considers, reviews and tests internal control and Internal audit business risk matters throughout the Group.
Further details of Internal audits work is focused primarily on areas of greatest risk the internal audit functions operations are set out below: to easyJet, as determined by managements risk identification and assessment processes as validated by the Executive Directors.
As described above, a quarterly risk and control identification The output from this process is summarised in an audit plan, process, together with an annual control effectiveness review, which is approved by the Board and Audit Committee, and is conducted.
The key risks are identified and the key controls to updated on a rolling quarterly basis.
manage these risks to the desired level are also identified: and The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Chief Financial Officer Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal in controls identified.
Audit was invited to and attended all of the Audit Committee The Directors review the effectiveness of internal control, including meetings in the year with the exception of one meeting when operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which the post of Head of Internal Audit was vacant but which has now mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the been filled and reported regularly on internal audit reviews to the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: Executive Management Team meetings during the course of the year.
A formal audit charter is in place.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and The internal audit department reviews the extent to which systems ultimately to the Board as appropriate: of internal control: Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: are effective: Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from are adequate to manage easyJets significant risks: and internal and external auditors: and safeguard the Companys assets.
The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high-level risks, are The key objectives are to provide independent and objective reviewed to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this assurance on risks and controls to the Board and senior review are reported to the Board which considers whether these management and to assist the Board with meeting its corporate high-level risks are effectively controlled.
The role of internal audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
