COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Company has been Board Committees subject to the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain Governance published in July 2003 and last revised in June 2008 Directors and, in the case of the Group Executive Committee and Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, to which specific the Combined Code.
Section 1 of the Combined Code establishes responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of 17 main principles and 26 supporting principles of good governance reference have been agreed.
These terms of reference are available in four areas: Directors: Relations with Shareholders: Accountability for inspection on the Companys website.
Board members receive and Audit: and Remuneration of Directors.
This report explains how minutes of meetings of all the Boards committees and can request these principles were applied in the first two of these areas.
Detailed presentations or reports on areas of interest.
reports on Directors Remuneration and the Audit Committee can be found on pages 33 to 39 and pages 31 to 32 respectively.
The Audit The Group Executive Committee consists of the Executive Committee Report is incorporated by reference into, and forms part Directors and certain senior managers with Operating Company and of, this Corporate Governance Report.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee has met ten times during the financial year ended 31 Directors March 2010 and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group.
The Board The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group As at 31 March 2010 the Board comprised the Chairman, who is partExecutive Committee: the development and recommendation of time, two Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive strategic plans for consideration by the Board: the monitoring of Directors.
The Board is collectively responsible for the performance of the operating and financial results against plans and forecasts: the Company.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria and the development of risk management and control procedures.
on independence of Non-Executive Directors under the Combined The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
In the opinion of the Board, all the Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the The Audit Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors committees on which they sit.
They are sufficiently independent of and is chaired by Paul Hollingworth who became chairman of the management and are free from any business or other relationships Committee in July 2009 following Tim Barkers retirement.
Under which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
its terms of reference the Committee meets at least three times a year.
During the year under review the Committee met four times.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
It ensures the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and It is responsible for the overall Group strategy and the approval and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management review of major investment proposals.
The Board discusses and system.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and evaluates Group and Further details of the Audit Committee and its activities are set out subsidiary performance.
Other day-to-day operational decisions in the Audit Committee Report on pages 31 to 32. are delegated by the Board to the Group Executive Committee.
The Treasury Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, Information and agenda items are recommended to the Board by the Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Group the Group Executive Committee and the Company Secretary after Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group discussion with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
A twelve Tax Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for the Group within month rolling programme of Board items and other key issues is guidelines established by the Board.
discussed and agreed by the Board.
The Assistant Group Treasurer acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary The Remuneration Committee consists of all the Non-Executive meetings are held as and when necessary.
Its annual schedule Directors and is chaired by Rupert Soames who became chairman of meetings normally includes a visit to an operating company.
of the Committee in July 2009 following Leslie Atkinsons retirement.
Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely information on the Under its terms of reference the Committee meets at least twice a matters to be discussed at each meeting.
During the year under review the Committee met five times.
Board level also attend relevant parts of Board meetings in order to It is responsible for all aspects of the remuneration of the Executive make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
meetings, Directors are provided with information on matters Further details of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration affecting the business as and when relevant.
policy and of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the The Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 39. to authorise situations which might give rise to Directors conflicts The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman and all the of interest.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, Helmut Mamsch, chairs the management procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering Committee.
The Committee meets as required and recommends to whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to the Board candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any conflict Directors of the Company.
The Committee periodically assesses what authorisations it has given and any limitations which have been applied.
new skills, knowledge and experience are required on the Board and Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are if appropriate, recommends a candidate profile which is then used to brief recruitment consultants appointed by the Committee to set out on pages 24 and 25, together with details of their undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings are membership of Board Committees.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 29 held generally by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive with Director is responsible for chairing the meeting of Non-Executive prospective candidates and a shortlist of individuals is selected to Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance meet with other Nomination Committee members and the Executive and to provide an alternative communication channel for shareholders if required.
The Nomination Committee then meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
This Board Training & Induction process was used for the recent appointment of Adrian Auer as a A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
The Board has succession plans in place for Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new both the Board and the Group Executive Committee.
The Company Directors to the Groups business, its operations and its governance Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Such inductions typically include meetings with senior management, the Company Secretary, sales visits to customers and Board Attendance presentations of key business areas and other relevant documentation.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings: familiarity with the Group by attending external seminars and briefings, through participation at meetings and through visits to Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by receiving Board Committee Committee Committee presentations from senior management.
The Directors are updated Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings on new legislation and corporate governance issues as they arise.
Number of Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the meetings held Groups expense, if they deem it necessary in order for them to carry during the year 7 4 5 2 out their responsibilities.
This is in addition to the access that every Chairman Director has to the Company Secretary.
H Mamsch 7 2 Performance Evaluation Executive During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors, Directors without the Executive Directors present.
In addition, the Board has I Mason 7 carried out a formal evaluation of its own performance.
The process comprised the Company Secretary issuing a detailed questionnaire S Boddie 7 covering the Board and its Committees to Board members.
The Non-Executive questionnaire covered issues such as effectiveness of meetings, Directors how well strategy is tested and developed, Board composition and a L Atkinson 3 2 2 succession planning and risk management controls.
The responses b A Auer 4 2 3 2 to the questionnaire were collated independently by the Company a Secretary, who then prepared reports for each of the chairmen of the T G Barker 3 2 2 Board and relevant Committees.
The reports were discussed at the P Hollingworth 7 4 5 2 Board and the relevant committees and issues discussed included R C Soames 7 4 5 2 how best to review strategic issues, health and safety reporting, Board succession and agenda planning.
a Leslie Atkinson and Tim Barker ceased to be Directors on 17 July 2009. b Adrian Auer was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2009.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors, led by Rupert Soames Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director in his capacity as the Senior Independent Director, met to review The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Following the review, Rupert Soames had Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: their responsibilities discussions with the Chairman regarding his performance.
are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Appointments, Retirements and Re-elections The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for Leslie Atkinson and Tim Barker retired at the Annual General Meeting organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and in July 2009, having each served nine years on the Board.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution Helmut Mamsch will retire at the forthcoming Annual General of the Non-Executive Directors, and ensures all Directors receive Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also responsible for but will not be offering himself for re-election.
Helmut Mamsch has effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
Ian Mason will retire at the forthcoming The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on a Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial and of Association and, being eligible, is offering himself for re-election.
operational performance of the Group, and the determination of the Ian Mason has a one year rolling contract.
strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
Internal Control Rupert Soames took over the role of Senior Independent Director in The Group has an established and ongoing process of risk management July 2009, following Tim Barkers retirement.
The Senior Independent and internal control which has continued throughout the year under 30 GOVERNANCE WWW.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and the risks to which it is exposed.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management and reported the results to the Board.
These reviews covered all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Further details of this process are given in the Audit Committee Report on pages 31 and 32.
The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Relations with Shareholders A copy of the Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who so wish.
It is also available on the Companys website, which additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities and published financial results and presentations.
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcements of the annual and interim results, the results of which are communicated to, and discussed by, the Board.
At these meetings the Executive Directors and the Chairman meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-Executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
The Company has published a number of detailed presentations covering each of the Groups main geographic regions and key strategic areas on its website.
These presentations were originally made to major shareholders and analysts at an investor day held in February 2010.
The Group Finance Director regularly reports to the Board on meetings with shareholders, ensuring that the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Senior Independent Director attended meetings with major shareholders during the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
Shareholders are also given the opportunity to meet with and put questions to the Chairman and other Board Directors at each years Annual General Meeting.
Compliance with the Combined Code During the year ended 31 March 2010, the Directors consider that the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
By order of the Board Ian Haslegrave General Counsel & Company Secretary 28 May 2010
