OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVER GOVERNA finance NCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT 2010 31 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT There follows a report from the Audit Committee detailing the role assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Committee and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the reviews and advises the Board on the Groups Annual and Half-Yearly year.
The Board Report on the systems of Internal Control and their Financial Reports, Interim Management Statements and other effectiveness can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on periodic statements.
The Committee focuses in particular on key pages 29 and 30.
This report is incorporated by reference into, and accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any forms part of, the Corporate Governance Report.
significant areas of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
In its review of the financial statements for the year ended Role 31 March 2010, the Committee also considered analysis to support The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its duties the going concern judgement.
regarding the integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and the maintenance of a sound internal control and risk Internal Control management system.
In doing this, the Committee ensures that an The Boards responsibilities for Internal Control are set out in the appropriate relationship is maintained between Electrocomponents Corporate Governance Report on pages 29 and 30. and its external auditors, reviews the scope and effectiveness of the The Committee receives regular reports on the performance of the external audit process and makes recommendations to the Board on system of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing the appointment of the external auditors.
The Committee reviews the material risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and the Groups system The Committee dedicates one meeting a year to the review of the of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating Groups risk management process with the minutes of the review the risks facing the Group.
being reported to the Board.
Together with the provision of regular In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent updates to the Board on material risk issues, these allow the Board access to the Internal Audit team and to the external auditors.
The to make the assessment on the systems of internal control for the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to purposes of making its public statement.
During the period under the Chairman of the Committee outside formal committee meetings.
review there were no control failings or weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority and responsibilities and these are reviewed periodically Further information regarding risks to the business is given on pages by the Committee.
The Committees current terms of reference 20 to 21 of the Business Review.
are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Internal Financial Controls The Board is kept fully apprised of the Committees work and the Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Directors minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
to enable them to discharge their responsibilities for financial matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 40.
Membership The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and The main financial control elements are described below.
has been chaired since July 2009 by Paul Hollingworth, following Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the Tim Barkers retirement as a Non-Executive Director at that date.
Board Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility The Board is satisfied that Paul Hollingworth, currently Group through the Board Committees to management in all locations.
Chief Finance Officer at Thomas Cook Group PLC, has the relevant Operating company controls are detailed in Group Finance and Group financial and accounting experience required by the provisions of Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary in identified the Combined Code.
Smaller Group operating companies are supported by Group, regional and Process specialists in key areas.
Meetings and Attendance The Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, 2010.
These meetings were timed in accordance with the financial monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance during are prepared by all operating companies and groupwide Processes.
the year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 29.
These contain forecasts of the current financial year which are updated at least four times per year and are compared against the In addition to the members of the Committee, it was normal for the previous forecast, the budget and prior year actual figures.
Variances Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and Group Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
the Company Secretary and the Group Audit Engagement Director Specific reporting systems cover treasury operations, major from KPMG Audit Plc KPMG to receive the Committee papers investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which are and attend meetings.
The Group Risk Manager also attends meetings reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
Their attendance was at the invitation of the Committee Internal Audit Chairman only and does not restrict the Committees independent The Group has a team of internal auditors which has an annually decision making.
agreed audit programme approved by the Committee.
The Committee Activities during the year also reviews the level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal Financial Reporting Audit function to conduct this programme of work.
The Committee In its financial reporting to shareholders and other key interested reviews a summary of the results of each audit and the resolution parties, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable of any control issues identified.
COM AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT continued The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the Chairman of the Group Finance Director has authority to commission the the Committee.
external auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a specific project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
On an annual basis the Committee as a whole discuss with the Head This work has to be reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
of Internal Audit the control environment of the Group without the If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the presence of executive management.
Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was formally case, other potential providers must be adequately considered: and reviewed by the Committee during the year.
the Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external External Auditors auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in The Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of the Group in excess of 10,000. the Companys auditors KPMG in their reporting to shareholders.
The Professional rules require rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at all of Director from KPMG.
This took take place in July 2009 when a new the Committee meetings to ensure full and open communication.
Director was appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held The performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Committee, the post for five years.
A formal statement of independence from the and covers qualification, expertise, resources and re-appointment as well external auditors is received each year.
The Group will not engage the as reassurance that there are no issues which could adversely affect the auditors to undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
As part of risk evaluation planning As part of this years decision to recommend the re-appointment of the the Committee will also consider the need to include the risk of its auditors, the Committee has taken into account the tenure of the auditors current auditor withdrawing from the market.
and the need to consider at least every five years whether there should Views of management are also taken into account and this is reported be a full tender process.
There are no contractual obligations that act to to senior members of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system restrict the Committees choice of external auditors.
The Committee also met with KPMG, without The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the Annual management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, and beyond this, there significant area where management judgement has been applied.
are controls in place to ensure that additional work performed by the The auditors engagement letter and the scope of the years audit is auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
discussed in advance by the Committee, ensuring that any changes in Fraud circumstances arising since last year are taken into account.
The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection Following discussions between the operating companies and the of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must be reported to local KPMG offices and a review by Group management, audit and the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by non-audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and are then operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate.
The recommended to the Board for approval.
Details of audit and nonoutcome of any investigation will be reported to the Company audit fees are given in note 3 on page 54.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the outcome of any investigation will be kept which will be circulated to Company has developed a policy to ensure that the provision of such the Committee on a regular basis.
services does not impair KPMGs independence or objectivity.
Whistleblowing The policy is as follows: In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give in matters of financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that consideration to the provisions of the Smith Report with regard to any matters are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
This is run the preservation of independence and objectivity: by an external third party, currently operating in the UK and Asia the external auditors must certify to the Company that they are Pacific, with plans to expand to the rest of the Group.
acting independently: By order of the Board in providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not: audit their own work: Paul Hollingworth make management decisions for the Company: Chairman of the Audit Committee 28 May 2010 create a mutuality of interest: and find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company: before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that the external auditors are satisfied that there is no issue as regards independence and objectivity:
