CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate governance statement Board operation The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate The Board operates within a framework of controls used to minimise governance.
risks and has a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved to it for decision.
These include strategic and annual operating plans, The Company has throughout the year ended 31 December 2010 the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and disposals, risk applied fully all the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code management and compliance programmes including insurance of Corporate Governance June 2008 as issued by the Financial arrangements, major non-recurring projects and major capital Reporting Council the Combined Code.
The Board regularly reviews management performance and sets values and standards to ensure that its obligations to The Board shareholders and others are understood and met.
It also delegates Composition speci c responsibilities with written terms of reference to the Board The Board consists of a non-executive Chairman, Chief Executive, committees detailed below.
Finance Director and four non-executive directors.
The directors and biographical information about them are shown on page 25.
The roles Information of an appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly fide ned.
to assist the Board in performing its duties.
New directors receive Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, appropriate induction tailored to their needs.
This includes visits to and all directors are required under the Articles to retire and offer manufacturing facilities and meetings with senior management to themselves for re-election at least every three years.
assist them in building an understanding of how the Group operates and the issues that it faces.
New directors are advised of their legal and During the remainder of 2011, three of our non-executive directors other duties and other obligations as directors of a listed company.
will have their appointment terms up for renewal.
For two, it would All members of the Board have access to the advice and services of be re-appointment for a third three year term.
Kevin Matthews term the company secretary and may take independent professional advice, expired on 15 February 2011 and he was re-appointed for a third term.
as appropriate, at the expense of the Company.
He, like all other directors, will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
The Board and the Nomination Committee have discussed the Boards The Board holds one of its meetings each year at one of the Groups succession plans and all non-executives retiring in 2011 have indicated overseas locations and undertakes site visits when appropriate.
In their willingness to be re-appointed.
Following these discussions and 2010, the Board visited the Chromium facility at Castle Hayne in North its annual performance evaluation, the Board is satis ed that all our Carolina and held its overseas Board meeting in Hightstown, New directors, both executives and non-executives, contribute effectively Jersey.
During this trip, directors met with operational and functional and demonstrate appropriate commitment to their role and, therefore, managers and business leaders from the Specialty Products and shareholders are asked to support their re-election at the 2011 AGM.
The visits involved facility and laboratory tours, informal dinners and more formal business presentations, A key factor that determines Board effectiveness is its composition: covering a wide range of topics including: business and Group risks: the mix of knowledge, skills, experience, aptitudes and personalities HSE performance: finance and working capital management: R&D represented on the Board.
The directors consider that the structure progress: marketing: procurement supply-chain and operations and composition of the Board is appropriate to take the Company management: HR activities: legal and compliance matters: and IT through to the next stage of its development and there are no further challenges.
These activities allow the Board to broaden and deepen plans for the time being to increase the number of directors on the its knowledge of the business, as well as the issues and risks facing Board.
In coming to this view, the Board has noted the UK Governance the Group including social, environmental and governance risks, in Code provisions applicable in respect of the 2011 reporting year, addition to commercial, operational and financial risks.
Exposure to concerning Board diversity.
The Boards policy on the recruitment of the tiers of management below Board level helps the directors better directors is to appoint the candidate whose pro le best matches the understand the talent pool and resources that are available within the speci cations agreed by the Nomination Committee for any particular Group to develop and grow the business.
Such speci cations tend to re ect objective criteria and may include, for example, knowledge in a speci c professional or academic Training and development discipline, business function or of the chemical industry.
To ensure Directors are encouraged to undertake such activities and training as objectivity and independence, specialist Board level recruitment they consider appropriate to help them carry out their duties.
Training advisers are usually engaged to help identify candidates who meet can take the form of externally run seminars and conferences on these speci cations.
As part of its medium term succession plans, the topical areas, such as pensions, investor relations, risk management, Board will continue to follow its policy and ensure that its recruitment executive remuneration or accounting, and the company secretary advisers take into consideration the requirements on Board diversity.
helps to facilitate this depending on, and in accordance with, each directors needs or interests.
Alternatively, training is arranged inBoard independence house in the form of presentations by advisers at Board meetings.
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent Such training given during 2010 included: the UK Bribery Act, in character and judgement.
The Board is satis ed that each director pensions and corporate governance.
Directors are also enrolled onto exercises independent judgement and believes no individual or group the Groups online training programme, which includes courses on the dominates decision making.
Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, and on anti-corruption bribery compliance.
The Audit Committee decided towards the end of 2010 to run a series of refresher brie ngs for all directors on speci c aspects of accounting policy and practice, particularly in areas where judgement is required.
These brie ngs will be incorporated into the Audit Committees schedule of meetings throughout the year.
30 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Board performance evaluation Communication with shareholders The annual evaluation of the Boards performance, including that The Board has developed a comprehensive programme to ensure of its committees and individual directors, was carried out by the that effective communication with shareholders, analysts and the Nomination Committee between September and October.
The financial press is maintained throughout the year.
Through the annual process involved a questionnaire and interviews.
The format and areas and interim reports, results and other announcements, as well as of focus of the questionnaire, which is designed internally, is updated through presentations to institutional shareholders, investor days each year by the company secretary and reviewed by the Chairman, and the dissemination of information via the Groups website at Senior Independent Director and executive directors before the www.
com, the Board seeks to present the Companys questionnaire is circulated to all directors for completion.
The results strategy and performance in an objective and balanced manner.
are returned to the company secretary who collates the responses and prepares a report, on a non-attributable basis, which is distributed to Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to ask questions during all directors for discussion at the Nomination Committee meeting.
the meeting and also to meet the directors after the formal business of the meeting has concluded.
The chairmen of the Audit and The performance of the Board, its committees, individual directors Remuneration Committees are also available to answer questions from executive and non-executive and the company secretary was any shareholder at the meeting.
Full details of proxy votes cast on each considered to be effective.
The directors were satis ed with the: resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting and are amount and quality of the information given by management: made available on the Companys website after the meeting.
priorities, objectives and strategic direction of the Group: and composition and operation of the Board, and the structure and The Board receives regular reports from management on meetings operation of Board committees.
held with shareholders and analysts, feedback from investors on both corporate and managements performance from results roadshows In addition, the Chairman held one-to-one meetings with each and copies of research notes published by analysts.
This ensures that director to discuss privately the results of the evaluation exercise as non-executive directors develop a clear understanding of the views of well as the Boards short term priorities.
The key themes emerging major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director from the evaluation process were that there was: strong commitment are also available for contact by shareholders at any time.
to grow the Specialty Products business: a need to communicate more effectively the investment opportunity to address the In addition, the Chairman and the chairman of the Remuneration Companys low price earnings ratio relative to its UK specialty Committee, where appropriate, undertake meetings, from time to chemicals peers : closer interest in the actions identi ed and taken to time, with major shareholders to update them on any developments mitigate the Groups major risks, particularly those relating to legacy in corporate governance matters, or, in the case of executive issues, such as the UK pension fund fide cit: and better understanding remuneration, to consult them over remuneration proposals.
of the resources and talent pool available within the Group to grow the business, particularly within the context of management Share capital succession planning.
The information on the structure of the Companys share capital, including any rights or restrictions of shares, required to be made Towards the end of the year, the Senior Independent Director chaired in this Corporate governance report under the Financial Services a meeting of the directors to review the performance of the Chairman Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the without him being present.
The conclusion was that the Chairman Directors report under the heading Share capital.
was very effective in his role in terms of his leadership, the operation and priorities of the Board, and his support and commitment to Board committees management and the Company.
The Board has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, all with fide ned terms of reference, modelled closely In carrying out its annual performance evaluation, the Board noted on those set out in the Combined Code, which are available from the the UK Governance Code requirement for FTSE 350 companies to Company Secretary or can be found on the Companys website at have an externally facilitated evaluation at least every three years www.
applicable in respect of the 2011 reporting year.
The Board operates a very open and transparent culture in which directors have many Audit Committee opportunities, both formally at or outside Board meetings and The chairman and members of the Audit Committee the Committee informally at frequently held Board dinners, to raise any concerns during 2010 and their attendance records are shown in the table overleaf.
whether about the performance of management or the direction or priorities of the Company.
The professional and collegiate working The Committee has two members with recent and relevant financial relationship established between executive and non-executive experience as recommended by the Combined Code.
Chris Girling directors allows them to engage in open dialogue and the frank is a chartered accountant and was until April 2007 group finance exchange of views.
The value of this kind of culture would be dif cult director of Carillion plc which is a FTSE 250 listed company.
Ian Brindles to capture or evaluate in the formal ways commonly associated with experience is based on his career with  formal appraisal systems, particularly if they are conducted by an PwC and his previous roles at the Accounting Standards Board and external party.
Nevertheless, the Board will be addressing how it could the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
engage external resources in a way that will add value to the existing evaluation process.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2010: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Directors as at 31 December 2010: Robert Beeston, Chairman 8 8 3 3 David Dutro, Group Chief Executive 8 8 Brian Taylorson, Finance Director 8 8 Ian Brindle, Senior Independent Director 8 8 4 4 3 3 Andrew Christie 7 8 4 4 2 3 5 5 Chris Girling 8 8 4 4 3 3 5 5 Kevin Matthews 8 8 4 4 3 3 5 5 Denotes chairman of the Committee A description of the remit and work of the Audit Committee threshold, in which case the Finance Director has delegated authority Committee from the Committee to approve such appointments.
The threshold A full description of the Committees role is available on the Companys is that any individual non-audit engagement fee is no greater than website at: www.
The 15 per cent of the annual Group audit fee and the total cost of following is a summary of the Committees remit: non-audit engagements in the same financial year does not exceed 50 per cent of the annual Group audit fee.
monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, accounting policies and financial reporting: The external auditors were appointed during the year to undertake tax work on behalf of the Group, which included work on transfer reviewing the effectiveness of internal control, compliance and pricing, US debt structure, tax compliance and general Group dividend risk management systems: and planning.
The fees for these services amounted to 70 per cent of the Groups audit fee for 2010.
A signi cant portion of the fees paid to KPMG overseeing all aspects of the relationship with the internal and in respect of non-audit services relate to tax advice and planning, part external auditors.
of which is in connection with an ongoing project to restructure debt in the US operations and part is in response to changes in tax legislation The Committee met four times during 2010 and all meetings were in the UK, US and Netherlands.
KPMGs knowledge of the Groups also attended by the Chairman of the Company and both executive business processes and controls made them best placed to undertake directors, so that all Board members are kept fully informed on this work cost-effectively on the Groups behalf, which was a key factor the operation and work of the Committee.
The Committee met to in the decision to choose them to carry out this work.
In coming to review the annual and interim reports and financial statements and the decision to recommend their re-appointment as external auditors, also to receive half yearly reports from the internal audit providers, the Committee considered KPMGs independence and quality control PwC, as well as representations from management.
As part of its procedures, and concluded that their objectivity was not impaired by programme of work, the Committee: reviewed the effectiveness of having provided non-audit services.
Since the year end, KPMG were the internal and external auditors, through meetings and evaluating appointed to undertake some advisory work in relation to our Bribery assessment questionnaires completed by management and key Act compliance programme.
finance staff: approved the scope of work of and fees for both internal and external auditors: and concluded that, owing to the complexity KPMG were appointed external auditors, after a tender, in respect and international nature of the Groups businesses, the internal audit of the statutory audit for the year ended 30 June 2004.
Since then, function was best served by continuing to outsource to PwC, given both UK audit partners and the audit partner in the US have been their global expertise and resources.
The Committee also considered rotated.
During that time, the senior manager in charge of the audit the Companys business continuity plans during the year, approved has also changed.
These factors, together with KPMGs independence updates to the Companys treasury policies and discussed the and quality control procedures and their performance, have led Groups bribery compliance programme.
Under the direction of the the Committee to conclude that KPMG are effective in their role as Group General Counsel, the Group reviewed its Code of Business external auditors and why there are no plans to carry out a tender in Conduct and Ethics, and Anti-Corruption Policy towards the end of the near future.
The Committee does not consider that there are any last year and, with external support, will be revising these together factors or contracts which exist that restrict its choice of auditors, were with its guidelines to ensure that its compliance systems will be fully it to recommend the appointment of new auditors.
compatible with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act.
The review programme includes ensuring adequate risk assessment controls The Committee reviewed its policy on whistleblowing during the year are in place, revised policies and guidance including training is as well as reports on its operation.
The Groups whistleblowing policy implemented effectively and formal compliance audit and evaluation is supported by a non-retaliation policy and a toll-free, independent processes are established.
third party run Alert Line that is accessible by all our employees in their preferred choice of language.
All reports are investigated by The Committee keeps under review the objectivity and independence management and reported to the Committee.
of the external auditors KPMG and the nature and extent of non-audit services they provide.
The Companys policy is that any appointment of the external auditors to undertake non-audit work is subject to the approval of the Committee unless it falls below a 32 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Nomination Committee A fuller description of the risk management systems can be found The chairman and members of the Nomination Committee on page 15. the Committee and their attendance records are shown on page 32.
The Committee is responsible for: The management team, which comprises the executive directors, divisional managing directors and functional business leaders, reviewing the size and composition of the Board, together with meets on a regular basis to review each divisions and the Groups the skills, knowledge and experience of its members and making performance, strategy and risk management.
Their work is supported recommendations for change as necessary: by a central risk management unit, under the direction of the company secretary, whose terms of reference include supporting carrying out an annual performance evaluation of the Board and corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk its committees and members: and strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
PwCs work covers the monitoring of the succession planning for the Board and leadership team.
effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
The Committee met three times last year to review the results of the Board performance evaluation BPE exercise and consider succession At operating level, all divisions are required to have processes to planning matters.
Two of these meetings were attended by both identify risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
One meeting was attended by non-executives In addition annual compliance statements on internal control are only, in compliance with the Combined Code.
There were no issues of certi ed by each operating division.
signi cant concern raised in the BPE exercise, and a description of the evaluation process and results can be found on page 31.
There are no Financial reporting current plans to make any changes to the Boards composition.
There is a comprehensive Groupwide system of financial reporting, based on the JDE and HFM consolidation software platforms.
The Remuneration Committee Board reviews at each of its meetings reports from the Chief Executive Details about the Remuneration Committee are set out in the and the Finance Director, as well as full management accounts, Directors remuneration report on page 34. comprising monthly and year to date pro t and loss statements, cash ows and balance sheet, with segmental and individual business Internal control performance analyses.
In addition, capital expenditure and relevant The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal performance indicators are reported.
Actual monthly results controls and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of are monitored against budget, forecasts and the previous years this system, which includes financial, operational and compliance risks results.
Any signi cant variances are investigated and acted upon and controls.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather as appropriate.
As well as monthly management accounts, each than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and operating division prepares an annual and a three year operating plan can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting against material mis-statement or loss.
exercise is undertaken three times a year.
The Board is of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, The Committee considers that the Groups systems of internal control evaluating and managing signi cant risks faced by the Group was and risk management, particularly in this context in relation to the in place throughout the financial year under review and up to the financial reporting process, are robust and effective.
The Committee date that this Annual Report was approved.
This process is regularly is responsible for ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial reviewed by the Board and accords with the Financial Reporting statements and other communications to the market about trading Councils Turnbull and Smith guidance, as amended, on internal performance relative to market forecasts.
and keeps under review signi cant accounting policies, particularly in areas where judgements and estimates are made.
The key features of the Groups internal control system are: Investment appraisal Control environment There are clearly fide ned investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
A key factor in the Groups approach to internal control is the All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation recognition of the need for risk awareness and the ownership of risk procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
management by executives at all levels.
Audit Committee The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities The Audit Committee plays a critical role within the Companys system of divisional management, including authority levels, reporting of internal control and risk management and a full description of its disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal control.
Certain activities, including treasury, taxation, insurance, pension and legal matters are controlled centrally with reports reviewed by the Board A separate description of the Groups risk management system is set as appropriate.
Site level policies and procedures are set by divisional out in the Business review on page 15. management as appropriate to the needs of each business unit.
By order of the Board Risk identi cation and review Key identi ed risks, both financial and nonfinancial, are reviewed by the Board as well as by divisional management on an ongoing basis, which is supported by the work of the Audit Committee and the internal audit service, which is provided by PwC.
A formal annual Wai Wong review of risks and controls is carried out by both the management Company Secretary team and the Board, and includes presentations from senior managers.
1 March 2011 Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 33
