oveRview Business Review goveRnanCe finanCial statements CoRPoRate goveRnanCe RePoRt the Board The responsibility of the Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three is to represent the Companys owners and Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 38 and 39.
No ensure that Companys strategic objectives group of individuals dominate the Boards decision making are properly realised and that all major process and none of the Directors has any conflict of interest between their duties to the Company and their business risks are actively monitored and private interests.
To this effect the Company is The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and committed to achieving compliance with the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in the principles and provisions set out in writing and agreed by the Board in 2010.
Section 1 of the Combined Code on In the opinion of the Board, Jock Lennox and Helmut Corporate Governance published by the Langanger, are fully independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
However, the other Non-Executive Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 Directors, Alexandre Schneiter and Robin Pinchbeck, due Combined Code and appended to the to their association with Lundin Petroleum AB and Petrofac Limited, respectively, are not deemed to be independent Listing Rules and to ensuring that high for the purposes of the Combined Code.
standards of corporate governance are Notwithstanding the fact that Alexandre Schneiter and maintained.
The Board considers that the Robin Pinchbeck are not deemed independent for the purpose of the Combined Code, the other Directors, having Company is compliant with the Combined given full consideration to this issue, agreed that their Code, other than as detailed below.
knowledge of the Companys business and the experience they bring to their roles, outweighed the resulting noncompliance with the Combined Code.
The Board is also Set out below is a statement of how the satisfied that it maintained a sufficient degree of independence throughout the year to enable it to Company applied the principles of the discharge effectively and properly its obligations under Combined Code for the year ended the Combined Code.
In order to achieve full compliance with the Combined Code, it was stated in the Companys listing Prospectus dated 18 March 2010 that Alexandre Schneiter and Robin Pinchbeck would stand down as Non-Executive Directors before April 2012.
As part of this process, Robin Pinchbeck will be retiring at the AGM on 25 May 2011 and the Board plans to appoint a new independent Non-Executive Director in the near future as replacement for Robin Pinchbeck.
All of the Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the Board, so with the exception of Robin Pinchbeck, all the Directors will be seeking election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 25 May 2011.
Helmut Langanger has been appointed the Senior NonExecutive Director.
A key responsibility for the Senior Non-Executive Director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the Chairman, Chief Executive or the Chief Financial Officer.
His role is to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and address any concerns that might be raised by the shareholders that have not been resolved through normal channels.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, which was approved by the Board in March 2010.
Its reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group, to review business plans, trading performance and overhead costs, to approve major capital investment projects, examine acquisition opportunities and divestment possibilities, review significant financial and operational issues, and review and approve the Companys financial statements, control and risk management systems.
EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 45 CoRPoRate goveRnanCe RePoRt CONTINUED The Board delegates the execution of its strategic committees and minutes of all committee meetings are objectives to the Executive Committee, which comprises available to all Directors.
the Executive Directors, Head of Business Development and the Head of Legal.
Operational management of the Set out below are reports from the Audit Committee, Group on a day-to-day basis is managed by the Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Operational Committee, which comprises members of the Executive Committee, General Manager UKCS, asset audit Committee managers and selected senior management.
The Audit Committee comprises two independent NonExecutive Directors and the Chairman.
Currently, its The Board has full and timely access to all relevant members are Jock Lennox Chairman, Dr James Buckee information to enable it to perform its duties.
The Company and Helmut Langanger.
Dr Buckee is currently a member Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through of the Audit Committee as the remaining Non-Executive the Chairman, on all governance matters.
In addition, each Directors are not independent.
This will be reviewed once Director has access to the advice and services of the one or more independent Non-Executive Directors are Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by appointed in due course.
Mr Lennox has recent and the Board for Directors, in furtherance of the duties, to relevant financial experience: he is Audit Committee take independent professional advice if necessary, at the chairman of a number of public companies.
No members Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
of the Audit Committee have ongoing links with the Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP.
During 2010, eight scheduled meetings of the Board were held, seven of which were held at the Companys registered The main responsibilities of the Committee include: office in London and one meeting held offsite.
Details of monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings including annual and interim reports and any other of the Board Committees, are set out on page 47. formal announcement relating to the Companys financial performance: During the year, a number of other meetings took place to considering the establishment of an internal deal with specific matters that required to be considered audit function: at short notice, and in each case, notice was duly given reviewing the Companys internal control procedures to all the Directors.
Any Director who is unable to attend and risk management systems: scheduled or short-notice Board meetings in person making recommendations to the Board on the is invited to join the meeting by video or telephone appointment, review and removal of external auditors: conferencing facilities, or is given the opportunity to be establishing the external auditors remuneration: consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by monitoring external auditors independence: telephone or in writing.
monitoring the policy on external auditors non-audit services: and The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is identifying any matters in respect of which it considers set by the Chairman in consultation with the Company that action or improvement is needed and making Secretary and agreement from the Chief Executive.
Formal recommendations to the Board as to the steps to minutes of all Board and committee meetings are be taken.
circulated to all Directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In The Audit Committee engages in numerous ad hoc addition, the Chief Executive is in frequent contact with the discussions and in 2010 had two formal meetings to Non-Executive Directors between meetings in order to discharge its responsibilities as set out in its Terms of keep them updated with progress on the Groups business.
At the request of the Audit Committee, the The Chairman also meets the Non-Executive Directors Chief Financial Officer and a senior member of the finance informally, without any Executives present, on a regular department attended each of these meetings.
The Chief basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
Executive also attended both meetings as an observer, on being invited to do so by the Committee.
In addition, the The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration external auditors attended both meetings and received and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the copies of all Audit Committee papers.
In accordance with the Directors interests provisions in the Companies Act 2006, all the In fulfilling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of Directors are required to submit details to the Company financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee Secretary of any situations which may give rise to a conflict, reviewed the accounting principles, policies and practises or potential conflict, of interest.
The Board monitors and adopted in the presentation of public financial information.
reviews potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the interim and annual financial statements remains with Board committees the Board.
The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Nomination Committee, As part of the process when the Company became listed each of which has formal Terms of Reference approved by on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the the Board.
The Terms of Reference for each of these Board reviewed the need for an internal audit function, and committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined concurred that the control systems in place together with Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by management oversight were sufficient to highlight any the Board.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available areas of weakness in the financial reporting systems, so no on the Companys website.
internal audit function was established.
At the end of 2010, the Audit Committee reviewed the need for an internal The committees are provided with all necessary resources audit function and agreed to appoint Deloitte LLP to to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective provide outsourced internal audit services to the Company.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the 46 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 oveRview Business Review goveRnanCe finanCial statements The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups procedures The Nomination Committee engages in numerous ad hoc for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible discussions and in 2010 had two formal meetings to financial reporting or other misconduct.
The Committee discharge its responsibilities as set out in its Terms of considered any concerns raised, how these were Reference.
The Committee ensures, amongst other things, investigated and follow-up action taken.
that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Mr Langanger induction and training and its other appointees are Dr Buckee and Mr Lennox.
The New Directors receive induction on their appointment to Chief Executive may also be invited to attend meetings as the Board covering the activities of the Group and its key and when deemed appropriate.
business and financial risks, the Terms of Reference of the Board and its committees and the latest financial The main responsibilities of the Committee include: information about the Group.
setting the remuneration policy for the Chairman, Executive Directors and senior executives: The Chairman ensures that Directors update their skills, assessing and determining total compensation knowledge and familiarity with the Company required to packages available to the Executive and Non-Executive fulfil their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
Directors: Ongoing training is provided as necessary and includes monitoring the remuneration of senior management updates from the Company Secretary on changes to the other than the Executive Directors whose remuneration Listing Rules, requirements under the Companies Act and it sets: other regulatory matters.
Directors may consult with the making recommendations to the Board for its approval, Company Secretary at any time on matters related to their and that of shareholders, on the design of long-term role on the Board.
share incentive plans and making recommendations for the grant of awards to Executives under such plans: and Directors attendance at Board and Board determining policy and scope for pension rights and any Committee meetings compensation payments and ensuring compliance with The table below sets out the attendance record of each the Combined Code in this respect.
Director at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings during 2010: The Remuneration Committee engages in numerous Board Audit Remuneration Nomination ad hoc discussions and in 2010 had four formal meetings Meetings Committee Committee Committee to discharge its responsibilities as set out in its Terms Meetings held in 2010 8 2 4 2 of Reference.
executive Directors Further information on the Committee can be found in the Amjad Bseisu 8 n a n a 2 Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 52.
Nigel Hares 8 n a n a n a Jonathan Swinney 8 n a n a n a nomination Committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Bseisu, non-executive Directors Mr Langanger, Mr Lennox and Dr Buckee who is the Dr James Buckee 8 2 4 2 Chairman.
Helmut Langanger 8 2 4 2 Jock Lennox 8 2 4 2 The Nomination Committee assists the Board in its Robin Pinchbeck 8 n a n a n a responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board, Alexandre Schneiter 8 n a n a n a its size and structure whilst also evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Directors.
Note: The composition of the Board is also taken into account n a means not applicable where a Director is not a member of the committee.
and it is the responsibility of the Committee to identify and nominate candidates for approval by the Board to fill Board performance evaluation vacancies, appoint new Directors to replace those retiring An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its and make the appropriate recommendations to the Board.
committees, the individual Directors and the Chairman, The Committee meets at least twice a year and the Terms was conducted at the end of 2010 by the Chairman and of Reference of the Committee are to be found on the the results of the review were then fed back to the Board Companys website.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Following the evaluation, the Directors concluded that reviewing the size, structure and composition of the the Board and its committee operate effectively and also Board in order to recommend changes to the Board and consider that each Director is contributing effectively and to ensure the orderly succession of Directors: demonstrates commitment to the role.
formalising succession planning and the process for new Director appointments: internal controls identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates The Companys system of internal controls is designed to for appointment or reappointment as Directors or manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve Company Secretary, taking into account the balance of business objectives and can only provide reasonable and knowledge, skills and experience required to serve the not absolute reassurance against misstatement or loss.
Board: and The Board will continue to review and improve the system reviewing the outside directorships commitments of internal controls.
EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board recognises the need for effective internal North American cities.
These roadshows, combined with controls and for evaluating and managing the risks of the the attendance of various Directors and senior Company.
Such matters are brought to the attention of the management at several oil and gas sector conferences, Board at its formal Board meetings or ad hoc discussions.
provided for comprehensive and engaging dialogue with shareholders.
High level controls in operation include: review of management accounts with comparison of The Company issues its results and other news releases actual performance against prior periods and budget: promptly and publishes them on the Companys website approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and two at www.
Other corporate information signatures required to make a transfer from the principal issued during the year is also available on the website.
bank accounts: Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe recognition of all control accounts: to receive news updates by email by registering online prior approval by the Board for major investments: and on the website.
segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
At the 2011 AGM, a business presentation will be provided for the benefit of shareholders.
The Chairman will aim to The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk ensure that the respective Chairmen of the Audit and assessments to identify any deficiencies in the controls Remuneration Committees attend the AGM to answer currently operating over all aspects of the Company.
A questions and that the other Directors also attend.
formal risk assessment was conducted by the Board in 2010 on internal controls to cover material contracts both Compliance statement financial and operational and risk management systems.
As the Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange, it is subject to the Combined Code, which is available from Financial reporting procedures were reviewed as part of the Financial Reporting Council www.
the process to become listed on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and a full Board memorandum Since 6 April 2010, being the date that the Companys was prepared.
Having considered the findings, the Board Ordinary shares became listed on the London Stock were able to confirm that the financial reporting Exchange, to the end of 2010, the Company complied fully procedures established provided them with a reasonable with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined basis on which to make proper judgements on the Code with the exception of: financial position and prospects of the Company A3.2 Less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, on an ongoing basis.
C3.1 The Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee.
Details of principal risk and uncertainties are discussed in the Business Review on pages 18 and 19.
On behalf of the Board The Company has established a Code of Conduct policy which all employees and contractors are required to comply with.
This policy includes the procedures for whistle-blowing whereby employees can raise concerns in confidence about possible wrong doing.
This matter is on the agenda at Audit Committee meetings to review and Dr James Buckee take action as required.
Chairman of the Board 4 April 2011 Auditor independence The Audit Committee and Board recognise the importance and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, when performing their role in the Companys reporting to shareholders.
The external auditors are expected to provide the Audit Committee with information about policies and processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with current regulatory requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff.
The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the auditors is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has a policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditor.
Fees billed by Ernst & Young LLP, during 2010 amounted to US$369,000 for audit related services and US$794,000 for non-audit services.
Communication with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
EnQuest will send its maiden 2010 Annual Report and Accounts to all registered shareholders.
In order to ensure that the Board develop a strong dialogue with shareholders, during 2010, the Executive Directors and senior management met with institutional investors in London and across the UK as well as other European and 48 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010
