Corporate Governance Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate governance report for the year ended 30 September 2010.
During the last year there have been a number of reviews of corporate governance practices in the UK, the most significant being the review of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as defined below by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
As a result of these reviews, several key characteristics have emerged which we believe are already embedded in our existing governance structures.
Governance needs to be meaningful, relevant and focused on helping our business deliver its strategy, generate long-term shareholder value and minimise risk.
It follows that the role of the Chairman in leading the Board, the commitment of all members of the Board and the mix of skills, experience and independence that they bring are of paramount importance.
We believe that our Board meets these tests, has the independence to ensure an objective approach and provides leadership and challenge in the boardroom.
This report sets out our governance structures, the work of the Board and its Committees and provides a sense of how we seek to comply with our obligations.
For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are those set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance adopted by the FRC in June 2008 the Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2010, the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Following its review of the Combined Code, the FRC published a revised UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010.
This revised code will apply to reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and therefore does not apply to our financial year ended 30 September 2010 or our AGM business in 2011.
Nevertheless we have aligned our governance report with the themes of this revised code: n Leadership pages 24 to 26 n Effectiveness pages 26 to 30 n Accountability pages 30 to 31 n Communication pages 31 to 32 In addition you will find the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 33 to 45.
In summary, I believe that we continue to take a rigorous approach to governance and that our existing processes and structures encourage independent challenge to the executive.
Hubert reid Chairman 15 November 2010 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 23 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance LEADErSHIp Membership of the Board and Board Committees As at 30 September 2010 the Board comprised the Chairman, three executive directors and four independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of all Board and Committee members are set out on pages 9 to 10.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and separate and clear divisions of accountability and responsibility have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing these are available on our website and operate effectively.
During the year the Board has again reviewed its composition and has concluded that it fully satisfies the requirements of the business and ensures proper governance of the Group.
There were no changes to the membership of the Board during the year.
The Chairman, Mr Reid, has primary responsibility for: n leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and the implementation of the annual performance evaluation exercise for the Board and its Committees.
n ensuring, through the Company Secretary, that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
n managing the Board so that all directors make an effective contribution and that sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex issues.
n ensuring the Board effectively monitors Company performance in line with strategic objectives.
n ensuring that Board members are made aware of the views of the Companys major shareholders.
The Chief Executive, Mr Tuppen, has executive responsibility for executing the Groups strategy and development.
He leads the management of the Company in order to optimise long-term shareholder value by meeting key strategic and financial objectives.
He is supported in this role by the executive team and his primary responsibilities are: n to prepare, evaluate and implement the strategic goals and objectives of the organisation.
n to develop a business plan in line with strategic objectives within a framework of effective risk management.
n to give day to day direction and leadership towards the achievement of the organisations strategy and objectives.
n to maintain communication with shareholders, analysts and the press on business performance, results and prospects.
n with the Chairman, to provide external leadership of the Company and to represent the Company with industry organisations, suppliers, government, shareholder bodies, financial institutions, the community and the public.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement.
The Board recognises that length of service can impact on the independence of a non-executive director and, having considered this, is satisfied that all non-executives remain independent in character and judgement.
The Board membership and that of its Committees is designed to ensure that no one individual or group dominates proceedings and that their wide variety of skills allows effective leadership across the Companys business activities.
operation of the Board The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to the shareholders for its proper management and its success.
The Board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the Company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and operating plans, governance and compliance with laws and regulations, business development including major investments and disposals, financing structures and in conjunction with its Committees: financial reporting, risk management and succession planning.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance The Board has established, and reviewed during the year, guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues.
The Board has agreed an approach for dealing with conflicts of interest to the matters scheduled for Board consideration.
The Board confirms that it is not aware of any situations which may, or did, give rise to a conflict of interest during the year.
All meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion by all directors and ensure full participation in the decision making process and all directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
When making decisions, the members of the Board are aware that they must have regard to various matters including the long-term, employees, relationships with suppliers, retailers and others, local communities and the environment and when reviewing strategy the Board takes into account these wider interests.
Meetings and attendance It is the responsibility of the Chairman and Company Secretary to work closely together to plan the annual programme and agendas for meetings.
During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings and is expected to hold a similar number of such meetings over its next financial year.
The Board can convene additional meetings as necessary to consider matters that are time critical.
In addition, two separate Strategic Business Reviews are held off site annually at which high level strategic issues, such as future business direction and its financial and operational implications are reviewed and debated.
These Strategic Business Reviews have a strong operational focus and also give the Board the opportunity to meet and hear from the senior management team.
Members attendance during the year Board Nominations Remuneration Audit ended 30 September 2010 meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 6 2 7 3 Non-executive directors H V Reid 6 2 A J Stewart 6 2 7 3 D A Harding 6 2 7 3 S E Murray 6 2 7 3 D O Maloney 6 2 7 3 Executive directors G E Tuppen 6 2 D C George 6 W S Townsend 6 Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an independent judgement to the decision making process at Board and Committee level.
Their role requires a time commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their duties.
In terms of commitments outside of the Company any material changes must be reported to, and pre-cleared with, the Chairman.
On 1 June 2010 the Company appointed Mr Harding, as the new Senior Independent Director to replace Mr Stewart and whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing available on our website and agreed by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have any concerns that cannot be resolved through contact via normal channels.
In compliance with the Combined Code the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives during the year to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman.
In addition, all of the non-executives including the Chairman met twice during the year without the executive directors being present to discuss in detail the matters which they believed to be relevant for the purposes of the Strategic Business Reviews, including key operational and financial issues, performance of the Chief Executive and overall feedback arising from the performance evaluation process.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 25 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance Information and training The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure available on our website concerning independent professional advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company has arranged appropriate directors and officers liability insurance to provide cover in the event of legal action against its directors.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees and is responsible for advising the Chairman on matters of corporate governance, ensuring a good flow of information to the Board and its Committees and between the non-executives and senior management.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary are available on the Companys website.
All new directors receive an appropriately tailored induction programme arranged to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group and the key business issues, including social, environmental and ethical issues.
The training needs of each director are regularly reviewed and assessed by the Board.
Existing directors undertake such professional development as is necessary for them to carry out their duties as directors.
During the year the directors have, amongst other matters, received appropriate guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code.
re-election of directors The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newly appointed directors will be subject to election at the next following Annual General Meeting and also that directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board has determined that re-election of the Chairman and non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to formal review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee and approval by shareholders.
EFFECTIVENESS This section of the report sets out how we approach governance, measure our effectiveness and the role played by each Committee in supporting the Board.
In particular, there is a governance need to ensure effective independent challenge by non-executives concerning strategy, succession, leadership, risk and reward.
We meet this requirement as at least half of the Board comprises independent directors who have both a strong financial background and bring experience from other retail and consumer facing sectors.
Accountability is strengthened by ensuring there is sufficient time for open debate and ensuring the Committees carry out detailed independent oversight.
performance evaluation The Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual directors.
During the year the Company has internally undertaken a critical self assessment performance evaluation programme in accordance with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including the Chairman.
Board performance evaluation The process was led by the Chairman and all directors completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The responses to these questionnaires were summarised in a report by the Company Secretary and presented to the Board.
This years review found the Board: n has dealt robustly and effectively with the significant operational and financial challenges the Company has faced over the last 12 months.
n has clearly focused on the need to reduce debt and the associated refinancing issues.
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance n remains a good open forum for constructive discussion and decision making.
n needs to keep in mind the development of future strategy in line with key performance indicators, market trends and any change in our competitors strategies.
Board Committee performance evaluation Each Committee member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of these questionnaires were summarised by the Company Secretary and presented to the Board.
This years review found that: n the overall Board Committee structure is appropriate and supports the Board.
n the composition of each Committee met the governance requirements of the business.
n meetings ensure open and meaningful communication and are sufficient in number and length.
Non-executive director performance evaluation All non-executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Subsequently, the Chairman held private discussions with each of them to discuss matters including any issues arising from the evaluation of the Board and Committee performance.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance and subsequently discussed this review with the Chairman.
Executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chief Executive, with each executive director set challenging performance objectives at the start of the financial year.
Throughout the year the Chief Executive met with the executive directors on a confidential basis to discuss and review individual performance objectives.
The successful achievement of these objectives makes up part of the short-term incentive criteria under the Bonus Plan and is determined by the Remuneration Committee, further details of which are set out on pages 35 and 36 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Board Committees In order to ensure effective leadership and governance, the Board governs through clearly identified Committees which have delegated powers to deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs.
A summary of the operation of these Committees is set out below.
All Committees of the Board that are subject to the requirements of the Combined Code are chaired by an independent director or have a majority of independent directors as members.
The Audit Committee The Boards obligation to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys external auditors is met through the Audit Committee.
The Company has complied with the Smith Guidance on Audit Committees updated by the FRC in 2008.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Maloney who has current and relevant financial experience.
The Committees members are the other non-executive directors.
The Committee met three times during the year to coincide with the financial reporting and audit cycles of the Company, including the submission of the interim and annual financial statements.
Representatives from the external auditors, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were in attendance at part or all of each meeting by invitation.
As a matter of best practice the Committee is able to meet alone with external auditors as required at the end of its meetings.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
These are available on the Companys website.
The Committee has reviewed its activities against its terms of reference and concluded that it has discharged the responsibilities delegated to it under those terms of reference.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 27 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
The Company has in place a whistle-blowing policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in such matters as financial reporting.
During the year under review the Committee: n has monitored the integrity of the financial statements, interim and annual report and accounts and relevant regulatory announcements.
n agreed the annual internal external audit plan, reviewed key business risks and uncertainties, considered external auditor reports and has monitored and followed up management actions in response to issues raised.
n met regularly with management and with internal and external auditors to review the effectiveness of internal controls and business risk management and is satisfied that proper and satisfactory internal controls remain in place to identify and contain business risk.
n has monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
n reviewed and monitored the independence and objectivity of external auditors.
n agreed new terms of reference.
n carried out an annual evaluation of its performance.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of external auditors for the provision of non-audit services and reviews this annually.
The policy is designed to: n ensure that the engagement does not impair the objectivity of the auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
n establish a transparent process and reporting to enable the Committee to monitor policy compliance.
n avoid unnecessary restrictions on the engagement of auditors for non-audit services where the provision of advice is of a higher quality and more cost effective than other providers.
The policy covers the type of services permitted including: n advice and assurance work regarding direct and indirect tax matters including tax compliance.
n due diligence investigations related to potential acquisitions and disposals.
n accounting advice and reviews of accounting standards.
The Committee is confident that in reviewing the external auditors Annual Audit Results Report the objectivity and independence of the auditors is not impaired by the provision of non-audit services.
This report includes a statement confirming compliance by the auditors with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standard 5 Non Audit services provided to audit clients.
The Committee is satisfied that such non-audit work is best handled by them due to knowledge of the Group.
The Committee aims to have non-audit work carried out in a manner that affords full value for money and considers it appropriate for commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, to use the external auditors for certain non-audit services.
The amount of non-audit fees charged by the auditors is disclosed in note 6 to the Group accounts on page 60.
28 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance The Committee has approved the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and is fully satisfied with the performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to require Ernst & Young LLP to tender for audit work during the year under review.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee has recommended that a resolution to reappoint the external auditors as the Companys statutory auditors, until the conclusion of the AGM in 2012, be proposed at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr Reid and its members are the Chief Executive, and the four non-executive directors.
The Committee is responsible for proactively refreshing and reviewing the Boards composition.
The Committee nominates, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and takes into account the knowledge and skills mix required by the Board in the future.
The Committee meets as required and met twice during the year.
The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments comply with the principles set out in the Combined Code and satisfy the needs for the balance of the Board.
Any appointments are based on merit and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the commitment which will be required of, the potential director.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code to ensure that no director is involved in discussions regarding his or her own succession.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The individual terms and conditions of appointment of directors can be inspected during normal office hours at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
During the year under review the Committee: n reviewed the plan for the retirement of directors by rotation.
n reviewed the framework and the proposed timetable for succession planning for executive and non-executive appointments including the retirement of Mr George and Mr Stewart at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 20 January 2011. n reviewed the requirement to appoint a new Chief Financial Officer and appointed external recruitment consultants to find suitable candidates.
n recommended the appointment to the Board of Mr Smith as Chief Financial Officer further details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 40. n recommended to the Board the appointment of Mr Harding as Senior Independent Director in place of Mr Stewart.
n decided not to appoint an immediate replacement to Mr Stewart following his retirement.
The remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Mrs Murray and its members are the three other non-executive directors.
The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance related bonus schemes and the Chairmans fee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration services and advice to it and the Company.
The Committee met on seven occasions during the year.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 29 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles set out in the Combined Code and a summary of the work undertaken by the Committee during the year, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in shares, together with information on service contracts, on pages 33 to 45.
Executive Committee The Board delegates day to day management of the Group to the Executive Committee which comprises the three executive directors and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee generally meets weekly and other members of the Groups Executive Management and Senior Management Teams attend as necessary to provide input and to facilitate communication of the Executive Committees decisions to the rest of the Group.
Finance Committee and Disclosure & Monitoring Committees The Board has delegated, within agreed terms of reference, responsibility for certain matters of a routine nature which are not reserved for full Board consideration to a Finance Committee.
This Committee comprises two executive directors, one of which must be the Chief Financial Officer.
In addition, and to ensure full compliance with its obligations under the Disclosure Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer to maintain adequate procedures, systems and controls to enable it to make timely and accurate disclosure of information via a regulatory news service when it is impracticable to hold a full Board meeting.
A separate Monitoring Committee has been established to monitor compliance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority as well as a policy based on the Model Code which covers dealings in securities of the Company and applies to directors, persons discharging managerial responsibility and employee insiders.
ACCouNTABILITy The Board has overall accountability for running the business effectively, which includes making sure risks are managed and that we have a sound system of internal control and risk management processes, including health & safety procedures and risk controls that are designed to reduce the chance of a failure to meet our objectives.
To achieve these objectives an independent audit is undertaken by the external audit and the internal audit function who regularly report to the Audit Committee.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the overall system of internal control for the Group and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It carries out such a review at least annually covering all material controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Operating policies and controls are in place to cover a wide range of issues including financial reporting, capital expenditure, information technology, business continuity and management of employees.
Detailed policies ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and preparation of financial statements.
The key elements of the Groups processes for the provision of effective internal control and risk management systems include: n regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors consideration.
n the Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks and uncertainties facing the business, and how these risks and uncertainties are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
n an established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
30 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance n an internal audit function which implements the annual internal audit plan as agreed by the Audit Committee.
n documented and enforced policies and procedures.
n appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
n comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
n a detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post-investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board.
n the Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
Management is responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of accounting records and processes to ensure that all financial information is relevant and accurate and prepared in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial information published by the Group is subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
No change in the Companys internal control over financial reporting has occurred during the year that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
risk management An ongoing process on internal control has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and, with advice from its Audit Committee, is satisfied that this meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and the Turnbull Guidance updated by the FRC in 2005.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual accounts.
Further details of the material risks and uncertainties facing the business can be found at pages 16 to 20 in the Directors Report.
Directors responsibilities The directors are legally accountable for the content of this Annual Report and financial statements.
The responsibilities of the directors for preparing this Annual Report and financial statements are set out on page 22.
CoMMuNICATIoN This section of the Annual Report looks at how we communicate and keep in touch with our investors and stakeholders.
Shareholder relations The Board places considerable importance on maintaining clear communications with its stakeholders directed to ensuring a mutual understanding of its objectives and has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors to discuss the progress of the business and deal with a wide range of enquiries.
The Boards primary contact with institutional investors is through the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Communication includes one on one meetings and presentations after the interim and preliminary results announcement, which the Chairman also attends, as well as specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Companys brokers as necessary.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 31 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed back to the Board on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of how shareholder views are communicated forms part of the annual Board performance evaluation process.
During the year, information about the progress of the Company, including reports, regulatory announcements released through the London Stock Exchange via RNS and presentations, is made available simultaneously on its website so that shareholders have full access to material information.
Directors regularly receive copies of analyst reports and reports on movements in major shareholdings as well as key broker comments.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, is the principal opportunity to encourage participation by private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 20 January 2011 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 131 to 135.
The Notice is sent by first class post to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy votes for and against are made available to attendees after the result of hand votes.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are encouraged to vote electronically in advance of the meeting or use the proxy card mailed to them.
Details of how to vote electronically via the registrars and through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service are set out on the proxy form.
The voting results are announced on the same day to the London Stock Exchange via RNS and on the Companys website.
Last year all resolutions were passed on a show of hands with proxy votes cast ranging from 92.80% to 99.99% in favour of each resolution.
Electronic communications and our website The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the Companys corporate website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The Company uses email alerts and actively promotes the downloading of all reports, enhancing the speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Companys corporate website www.
com investors holds a wealth of information including: n annual reports and investor presentations.
n latest news and press releases.
n associated governance documentation as highlighted in this report.
Finally, the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor queries on behalf of shareholders.
Details of additional shareholder services are set out on pages 129 and 130.
The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6 relating to share capital of the Company, can be found in the Directors Report on pages 11 to 21.
On behalf of the Board J A poole Secretary 15 November 2010 32 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2010 18532.04 03 12 10 Proof 6
