Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 54 Corporate governance report introduction The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success The Company is committed to maintaining the highest of the Company and has ultimate responsibility for the standards of corporate governance both in respect of its management, direction and performance of the Group and management of the Group and its businesses and its its businesses.
The Board is required to exercise objective accountability to its shareholders as a whole.
This section judgement on all corporate matters and is accountable of the annual report sets out the corporate governance to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
framework for the Company and how it has evolved since the Company listed its shares on the Main Market of the The day to day management of the Company is delegated LSE on 7 May 2010. to and run by the Chief Executive and the Management Committee, the role of which is described below.
The Board The Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which was has also delegated authority for specific matters to the issued in its amended form in June 2008 by the Financial Nominations and Governance Committee, the Remuneration Reporting Council, sets out the standards of good practice Committee, the Audit Committee and the Health and Safety in relation to corporate governance in the form of a set of and Environment Committee.
Further information on each principles and guidance.
In relation to section 1 of the of these committees is set out on pages 56 to 58 of this Combined Code, the Financial Services Authority requires Corporate Governance report.
listed companies to disclose how they have applied these principles and to explain whether they have complied with the There are, however, a number of matters which are reserved provisions of the Combined Code throughout the financial year.
These are set out in a formal schedule, approved by the Board and include: Since Listing, the Company has complied with the Combined the overall Group strategy and long range plans: Code in all respects, save for the following: stewardship of business performance: i Code Provision A.
1.3. the Non-Executive Directors have devising and reviewing the corporate governance structure not yet met to appraise the Chairmans performance: of the Group: ii Code Provision A.
2.2. the Chairman did not meet the approval of all new capital projects, any acquisitions independence criteria set out in the Combined Code on including joint ventures or divestments: his appointment, due to his interest in the Company: and approval of the annual budget, including maintenance and iii Code Provision A.
1. a Board evaluation has not yet project capital expenditure, and the operating plan: been undertaken.
delegated levels of authority and the annual and half-year financial results and shareholder communications: In relation to i and iii above, as the Directors were appointed the system of internal control and risk management: in April 2010 just prior to Listing, the Board is of the view that a the Group management structure: meaningful evaluation of the Board can only take place once recommending dividend policy for shareholder approval: the Board has worked together for a full year.
The evaluation appointment of external auditors: policy will therefore be developed and implemented in 2011. entering into related party transactions: Likewise, the Non-Executive Directors will meet to appraise entering into new committed financial facilities: the Chairman in 2011. approving the Financial and Treasury Risks Policy: and appointments to the Board.
In relation to ii above, The Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment and remains non-independent as subsidiary Board structure he is also Vice Chairman of the Essar Group and is indirectly a Essar Energy operates its oil and gas business in India through majority shareholder in the Company.
In view of the Chairmans Essar Oil Limited.
Essar Oil has 10.04% of its shares listed on position as one of the founders of the Essar Group and his the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange extensive involvement with Essar Oil and Essar Power over a of India.
Essar Oil has its own board along with a management period of many years, the Board considers that his knowledge committee and audit committee that undertakes all the of Essar and role in building it into one of Indias premier subsidiarys corporate governance requirements and complies business groups provides significant benefits to Essar Energy, with the Indian listing requirements.
Similarly, Essar Power, outweighing any potential conflicts.
The Chairman has made a which operates Essar Energys power business in India, also major contribution to the Groups growth and success and the has its own Board along with a management committee and Board is unanimously of the opinion that his continued audit committee.
The chief executives of these businesses are involvement is crucially important to the ongoing success members of the Essar Energy Management Committee.
the management Committee the role and structure of the Board The Management Committee focuses on monitoring The Board consists of seven Directors, made up of the implementation of the Companys strategy, progress against Chairman, Vice Chairman and Chief Executive and four agreed plans and operational matters to ensure the Boards independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of all the strategic directions are implemented and to make Board members appear on pages 8 to 10 of this annual report.
The Management Committee membership comprises the Vice Chairman, Mr Prashant Ruia, In April 2010, the Chairman, Mr Ravi Ruia: the Vice Chairman, as Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive of the Mr Prashant Ruia: the Chief Executive, Mr Naresh Nayyar and Company, Mr Naresh Nayyar, the Chief Executives of the the four independent Non-Executive Directors: Mr Philip Aiken, business groups, the Chief Financial Officer, Mr P Sampath Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula, Mr Subhash Lallah and Mr Simon and the Director of Investor Relations and Communications, Murray, were appointed to the Board.
In September 2010, Mr P Sampath was appointed Chief Financial Officer for Essar Energy following the resignation of Mr Gerry Bacon.
ComPany oveRview Business Review GoveRnanCe finanCial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 55 The Management Committee meets on a monthly basis.
senior independent Director Management Committee members generally receive papers Mr Simon Murray has been appointed by the Board as the a week in advance of the meeting.
Agenda items for each Senior independent Non-Executive Director and is available to meeting include operations, financial performance and address shareholders concerns that have not been resolved management accounts, an update on projects, use of funds through the normal channels of communication with the and funding requirements and legal and corporate governance.
Chairman, Vice Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial The agenda will also include, at least twice a year, an item to Officer, or in cases when such communications would monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups risk be inappropriate.
Chairman, vice Chairman and Chief executive Board balance and independence There is a clear division between the roles of Chairman, Vice Mr Ravi Ruia is the Chairman of the Company and is also Vice Chairman and Chief Executive and a written statement of their Chairman of the Essar Group, the Companys controlling responsibilities has been approved by the Board.
The shareholder and a related party for the purposes of the Listing Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Mr Prashant Ruia is Vice governance of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness Chairman of the Company and Chief Executive of the Essar and setting its agenda.
The Vice Chairman is responsible for Group, Mr Naresh Nayyar is Chief Executive of the Company.
leading, developing and managing the executive team and the Chief Executive is responsible for guiding the implementation The majority of the Non-Executive Directors are determined of Board strategy and policy with respect to the Groups by the Board to be independent, in compliance with the business, with the assistance of the Management Committee.
Combined Code recommendation that at least half the board of a UK listed company should comprise independent NonBoard process Executive Directors.
Their independence provides a strong The Board intends to hold at least four scheduled Board foundation for good corporate governance.
The Board also meets on an ad hoc basis in response to business needs.
All the meetings of the Board and independent non independent Board committees were held at the Essar Energy Head Office Mr Philip Aiken Mr Ravi Ruia in Mauritius.
There have been three scheduled Board meetings since Listing and a table of attendance of members of the Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula Mr Prashant Ruia Board and Board Committees at meetings held since the Mr Simon Murray Mr Naresh Nayyar Listing to 31 December 2010 is set out below: Mr Subhash Lallah Health, safety Remuneration audit and environment Board meetings Committee Committee Committee 1 scheduled ad Hoc meetings meetings meetings Mr Ravi Ruia 2 3 0 3 Mr Prashant Ruia 3 3 0 3 Mr Naresh Nayyar 3 3 0 3 1 1 Mr Philip Aiken 3 3 1 3 2 2 1 1 Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 2 3 2 3 3 4 Mr Simon Murray 2 3 0 3 2 2 3 4 Mr Subhash Lallah 2 3 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 Board meetings convened at relatively short notice to deal with ad hoc commercial matters.
Representation at such meetings reflects the short notice period given.
Board members who were unable to attend received the briefing papers in advance and had the opportunity to provide their input prior to the meeting.
Any such comments received were duly noted at the relevant meeting.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 56 Corporate governance report continued The Directors receive appropriate briefing papers on Re-election of Directors at the AGM substantive items, which are, in general, circulated at least a The articles of association of the Company require that all week before the relevant Board meeting to give the Directors Directors appointed by the Board submit themselves for adequate time to prepare for the meeting and to enable any election by shareholders at the first AGM following their Director who is unable to attend the meeting to have an appointment.
As the forthcoming AGM will be the first since opportunity to review the matters to be discussed and, if Listing, all the Directors will submit themselves for election by necessary, to provide comments to the Chairman in advance shareholders.
This is also in compliance with the provisions of of the meeting.
The Directors also receive regular updates on the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to financial information between Board meetings.
All Directors the Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2011 have the right to have their concerns about the running of the and requires that all Directors be re-elected on an annual basis.
Company, or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, Going forward it is therefore intended that all Directors will recorded in the minutes.
stand for annual re-election at future AGMs.
Board development The Directors being proposed for election have only been in All new Directors receive a comprehensive induction upon the post since shortly before Listing and the Board remains appointment to the Board.
Programmes of continuing satisfied that each Director proposed for election continues to professional development are arranged as required, taking be fully competent to carry out his responsibilities as a member into account the individual qualifications and experience of of the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring induction and training programmes are provided and the The Board committees Company Secretary is tasked with organising such Terms of reference for each of the following committees are programmes.
Individual Directors, with the support of the available on the Companys website, www.
Company Secretary, are also expected to take responsibility for identifying their own training needs and to ensure that Audit Committee they are adequately informed about the Group and their The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula, responsibilities as a Director.
an independent Non-Executive Director, who has over 30 years experience in accounting, audit and consultancy.
The other All of the Directors received a comprehensive briefing on their members of the Committee are Mr Simon Murray and duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK Listed company Mr Subhash Lallah.
All of the members are, therefore, by the Companys advisors as part of the Listing process.
Further briefings will take place in 2011 to ensure that the Directors are kept informed of relevant developments and that Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee is required updates on the changes and developments to the business are to meet at least three times a year or more frequently as provided at Board meetings as appropriate.
A number of the circumstances require.
Since the Listing the Audit Committee Directors attended site visits prior to Listing and further site has met four times.
The Audit Committee reports on its visits have taken place in 2011. activities to the Board, immediately following its meetings.
Advice Since Listing the Audit Committee has carried out various All Directors have access to the advice and services of the activities in accordance with the responsibilities set out in its Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for terms of reference including the activities described below.
ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Both appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are a The Audit Committee has reviewed the 2010 annual report matter for the Board as a whole.
All Directors also have access including the preliminary results before recommending them to to the Groups professional advisors whom they can consult the Board.
In doing so the Committee reviewed and discussed at the Companys expense should they consider this necessary the preliminary results and annual financial statements with in order to better discharge their responsibilities.
management and the external auditors focusing particularly on: the quality and acceptability of the accounting policies Conflicts of interest and practices and financial reporting disclosures and The Board is required to disclose any actual or potential changes thereto: conflicts of interest.
The Directors declared any conflicts of areas involving significant judgement, estimation or interest at the time of Listing and a declaration of interests uncertainty: forms a standard item on the agenda for each Board meeting.
the detecting of material misstatements by the auditors that A schedule of conflicts or potential conflicts for each Director is individually or in aggregate have not been corrected and reviewed at least annually.
In accordance with the Companys managements explanations as to why adjustments have not Articles of Association, the Board is permitted to authorise been made: any matter proposed to it which relates to a situation in which the basis for the going concern assumption: and a Director has, or can have, an interest which conflicts, or compliance with financial reporting standards and relevant possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Board may whether at the time of the authorisation or subsequently make any such authorisation subject to any limits or conditions it expressly imposes but such authorisation is otherwise given to the fullest extent permitted.
The Board may vary or terminate any such authorisation at any time.
ComPany oveRview Business Review GoveRnanCe finanCial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 57 The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the reports on its activities to the Board, immediately following external auditors, Deloitte LLP, who were appointed auditors at its meetings.
In managing this relationship a policy on the engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services The Directors Remuneration report is set out on pages has been developed and implemented.
When considering the 61 to 64. reappointment of the Companys external auditors before making a recommendation to the Board to be put to nominations and Governance Committee shareholders the Committee reviewed and monitored the The members of the Nominations and Governance Committee external auditors independence and objectivity and the are Mr Simon Murray Chairman of the Committee, Mr effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee Prashant Ruia and Mr Subhash Lallah.
The majority of the recommends the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the members are, therefore, independent Non-Executive Directors.
The role of the Nominations and Governance Committee is to The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and identify and nominate, for approval of the Board, candidates to reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function or fill Board vacancies as and when they arise as well as putting in considering the need for an internal audit function.
The Audit place plans for succession for Directors and senior executives, Committee has outsourced the internal audit function by in particular with respect to the Chairman, Vice Chairman and appointing Ernst & Young Pvt.
Limited to undertake the role Chief Executive.
of internal auditor to the Group with effect from 1 November 2010.
Ernst & Young have put forward, and the Audit Under its terms of reference, the Nominations and Governance Committee has approved, a risk-based internal audit plan Committee is also responsible for reviewing the structure, size based on the business process value chain, the risks identified and composition, including the skills, knowledge and within the financial reporting process at the Listing, past experience, of the Board and making recommendations to the internal audit activity carried out by the internal audit function Board about adjustments.
When making an appointment, the of Essar Global and the views of the management.
Committee is required by its terms of reference to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and Internal audit is an independent review and support function consider candidates on merit and against objective criteria, whose primary role is to provide an objective evaluation of taking care that appointees have enough time available to operations, information and control systems that the Company devote to the position.
has put in place, primarily to the Audit Committee but also as a service to management.
It provides analysis, Under its terms of reference, the Nominations and Governance recommendations, counsel, and information concerning the Committee is required to meet at least twice a year and at such activities examined and provides assurance as well as other times as the Chairman of the Committee shall require.
guidance on the development of effective and efficient controls with respect to process integrity, accuracy in reporting and Given that the Company only listed in May 2010, it has not compliance with policies and regulation.
As part of this service considered it necessary for the Committee to meet during the to management the internal audit meets quarterly with the last financial year.
The Committee met on 3 March 2011 and management as part of a Management Audit Committee held the discussions included consideration of the forward looking prior to the Audit Committee meetings.
This Committee is agenda which will include a discussion on succession chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by the Chief planning, a review of the size, structure and composition of the Financial Officers of the businesses.
The meeting provides an Board and the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
opportunity for the internal audit to report on their activities directly to the management to ensure actions are taking place Health, safety and environment Committee and highlight any remedial actions necessary.
The members of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee are independent Non-Executive Director Mr Philip Remuneration Committee Aiken Chairman of the Committee, Mr Naresh Nayyar and The members of the Remuneration Committee are Mr Subhash Mr KVB Reddy, an Executive Director of the Companys Lallah Chairman of the Committee, Mr Simon Murray and subsidiary, Essar Power.
All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists the Board and the Management Committee in obtaining assurance The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine the that appropriate systems are in place to deal with the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of Chairman, management of safety, health and environmental risks.
The Vice Chairman, Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer the Health, Safety and Environment Committee will meet at least Company Secretary and any other members of the Senior twice a year and has met once since Listing.
In general the Management as the Board may determine from time to time.
Health, Safety and Environment Committee meetings will be held in India with each meeting including a site visit.
Under its terms of reference, the Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least twice a year or more frequently as For further information on health, safety and environment, circumstances require.
Since Listing, the Remuneration please refer to the Corporate Responsibility report on pages Committee has met twice.
The Remuneration Committee 32 and 37 of this annual report.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 58 Corporate governance report continued internal Control Control environment The Groups operating procedures include appropriate systems The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and has delegated for reporting information to the Directors.
These procedures to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the are business dependent but all significant operational effectiveness of these controls.
The system of internal control businesses use SAP general ledger systems with automated controls and reconciliation processes.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Budgets are prepared by subsidiary management and subject or loss.
to review by the Chief Executive and then the Directors.
The approved budgets are then used as the basis for controlling As part of the Listing process undertaken by the Group expenditure, with approval levels varying based on whether a comprehensive review was undertaken of the control an item is within or exceeds budget.
That review confirmed that the controls in operation prior to the formation of the Group at the operating The Management Committee and the Board review monthly companies were appropriate and that controls had been management reports on the financial results and key operating implemented at the Group level to provide a satisfactory control statistics, together with a brief written explanation of significant environment.
During the year these controls have been refined variances or operational matters.
The management reports are and improved.
The Group Internal Audit function has presented by the respective accountable individuals who undertaken an exercise at the year end to confirm design provide further explanations as required.
and operating effectiveness of the controls.
The individual businesses monitor the progress of the Control structure expansion projects through regular project management review The Board sets the policy on internal control that is meetings to review progress and escalate issues to the Chief implemented by Management.
This is achieved through a Executive, with any major issues reported to the Board.
clearly defined operating structure with lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Emphasis is placed on the quality and abilities of the Groups employees, with structured evaluation processes and access The policy set by the Board is formally documented in the to a variety of online, internally and externally provided learning Group Governance and Administration Manual the Manual and development tools.
This is provided through a shared which clearly defines the limits of delegated authority and service agreement with the Essar Global Human Resources provides a framework for management to deal with areas function that was agreed as part of the Listing process and of significant business risk.
enabled the seamless transition of employee development.
The Essar Global Human Resources President is invited to attend The Manual confirms a Code of Conduct that applies to all Remuneration Committee meetings.
areas of the business and covers a requirement for all employees to comply with all applicable laws and regulations in The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis of the territories in which the Group operates.
At operational level the financial implications of the acquisition and key this Code of Conduct is covered through the detailed human performance figures.
A sensitivity analysis takes place of the resource policies that are available on the Groups intranet.
key assumptions made in the analysis with formal presentations to the Board.
The Board also approves individual policies covering areas that are identified as key for the Board to monitor.
For example, a The Management Committee and Board have been provided policy on the process for entering into and reporting related with a report detailing any significant legal actions involving party transactions has been approved and circulated Group companies, which provides a background to the case throughout the Group with individual briefings to the key and its current status within the appropriate legal system.
individuals responsible for managing the process.
monitoring and review activities These policies and procedures are reviewed and, where A number of processes have been instituted for monitoring necessary, updated at Management Committee meetings.
the system of internal control and reporting any significant control failings or weaknesses together with details of corrective action.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 59 A formal annual confirmation has been introduced with the summarised above.
The Board considers that these matters directors of each business segment certifying the operation of provide the key building blocks for an assessment of the their control systems and highlighting any weaknesses.
control environment and that the measures that have been implemented both before and after the Listing are appropriate During the year a Group internal audit function was appointed, to the Group.
The Board is committed to building on these provided through an outsourced relationship with Ernst & measures through the execution of the internal audit Young Pvt.
This internal audit function reports directly programme and the continued review by the Management to the Audit Committee and has prepared a risk based audit and Audit Committees.
plan agreed with the Audit Committee and undertaken a number of audits based on that plan.
The Group has also relations with investors formed a Management Audit committee chaired by the Chief The Company is committed to the promotion of investor Executive that reviews the results of internal audit reports to confidence by ensuring that trade in its securities takes place in ensure any points raised are properly addressed.
an efficient, competitive and informed market.
The Company recognises the importance of forthright communication as key A comprehensive and detailed risk register was established to building shareholder value and that, in order to prosper and as part of the Listing process and has been updated and achieve growth, it must among other things earn the trust of refreshed at the half year and year end to ensure all significant employees, customers, suppliers, communities and security risks are appropriately managed.
Significant risks and their holders by communicating openly and consistently delivering mitigating actions along with any remedial actions are on its commitments.
In doing so, the Company will comply monitored by the Management Committee and subsequently with the continuous disclosure obligations relevant to a reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Reports from the external auditors, Deloitte LLP, on certain Since Listing, the Company has put in place a comprehensive internal controls and relevant financial reporting matters, are programme of investor communications.
This includes: presented to the Audit Committee and management.
ensuring that all material information on the Company is broadly disseminated to investors, analysts and the media A hotline has been established providing arrangements by and that this information is available on our website at which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible www.
Distribution of information is via improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
the UKs regulatory news service and via email to our Staff may raise concerns in either English or the local language extensive contact database: using a toll-free hotline phone number or by sending an email increasing the number of analysts providing investment or letter to addresses especially created for the purpose.
This research on Essar Energy.
At the time of Listing, four broking policy has been disseminated across the Group.
firms provided research on the Company.
This number has now increased to eight, with more brokers undertaking review of effectiveness analysis to initiate coverage: The Directors, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial a programme of direct contact with major investors and Officer consider that any controls and procedures, no matter potential investors including attendance at investor how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable conferences and visits by senior management to major and not absolute assurance of achieving the desired control financial centres.
Since Listing, cities visited include: London, objectives.
The Groups Management is required to apply Edinburgh, New York, Boston, Tokyo, Hong Kong, judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving Singapore, Paris and Frankfurt.
We intend to continue with its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered this programme during 2011: and acceptable to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks ensuring that relevant and up to date information on concerned materialising, in identifying the Companys ability to the Company and its operations is available on the reduce the incidence and impact on the business of risks that Companys website.
do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the benefit.
The Company produces an Annual Report which is published for all investors and the Companys website contains up to date In reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal information on the business.
controls the Board has, through the Management Committee and the Audit Committee, taken account of the matters Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 60 Corporate governance report continued The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of the vote for, against or withhold a vote on a resolution.
Details of the proxy votes counted will be announced at the meeting and Companies Act 2006 which allow the Companys website to be used as the primary means of communicating with those on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Chairman of shareholders who have not specifically requested hard copy the Board and the Chairmen of each of the Board committees documentation.
The Shareholder Information section of this will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The 2010 Annual Report and report contains further details on electronic communications with shareholders.
the Notice of the AGM will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
The Board regards the forthcoming AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with the Companys investors.
Simon Murray The Companys Director of Investor Relations and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Communications, Mr Mark Lidiard, is based in the London on behalf of the Board office and is contactable on 44 0 20 7408 7660 or ir@essar.
com 18 March 2011 The Annual General Meeting The Companys first AGM will be held on Wednesday 18 May 2011.
Separate resolutions on substantially separate issues will be put to the AGM and proxy forms will allow shareholders to
