48 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 Directors indemnities During the year and as at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary & General Counsel, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including the pension scheme trustee companies.
The scope of the indemnities extends to include liabilities to third parties.
Creditor payment policy The Company policy for payment of suppliers is to pay according to the terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance in accordance with those agreed terms and conditions.
Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
Significant agreements The Company has committed bank facilities consisting of a 35.0 million three year amortising term loan and a three year multi-currency revolving credit facility for US$143.7 million.
Under the terms of these facilities, the banks can give notice to Filtrona to repay outstanding amounts and cancel the commitments where there is a change of control of the Company.
Under a note purchase agreement dated 29 April 2010 relating to US$80m senior notes due 29 April 2017 and US$80m senior notes due 29 April 2020, on a change of control the Company must make an offer to prepay all the notes at par, without any premium of any kind, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change in control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are a number of other agreements, involving the Company or its subsidiaries, that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole, to any potential bidder for the Company or Group.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Central Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Thursday 14 April 2011 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares At the last AGM held in 2010, the Directors were granted authority to allot relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 17,138,516, which expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
At this years AGM, shareholders will be asked to grant the Directors authority to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares: i up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,154,936 representing approximately one third of the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 23 February 2011 such an amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under section ii below in excess of such sum : and ii comprising equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 34,309,872 representing approximately two-thirds of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 23 February 2011 such an amount to be reduced by any allotments or grants made under section i above in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
The proposal conforms to the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising either of these authorities, which will expire at the end of next years AGM or, if earlier, the close of business on 13 June 2012 except in relation to share options.
Allotment of shares for cash At the last AGM held in 2010, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Directors to allot shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM and Resolution 13 in the Notice of AGM seeks to renew it.
The resolution authorises the Directors to allot or sell shares for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital of the Company, including treasury shares, at 23 February 2011 equivalent to 10,966,340 ordinary shares.
In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the PreEmption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
This BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 49 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com authority will expire at the conclusion of the following AGM or, if earlier, on 13 June 2012.
Purchase of own shares At the last AGM held in 2010, the shareholders approved a special resolution to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
That approval expires at the end of the forthcoming AGM.
At this years AGM, the Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding any treasury shares for cancellation, or to be held in treasury, such power to apply until the end of next years AGM or if earlier, 13 June 2012.
In accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a share is its nominal value and the maximum price exclusive of expenses for shares which may be paid is the highest of: i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value for a share for the five business days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venues where the purchase is carried out.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to make market purchases, however the authority provides the flexibility to allow them to do so in the future.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally, and could be expected to result in an increase in earnings per share of the Company.
During the financial year ending 31 December 2010, no ordinary shares were either purchased, cancelled or transferred out of treasury by the Company.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares Auditor KPMG Audit Plc has indicated that it is willing to continue in office.
Resolutions to reappoint them and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 10 and 11 respectively in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Derivatives Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting Policies on page 76, and in note 15.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the Auditor As required by section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors, confirm that: As far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern disclosure Further information regarding the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 32 to 34.
In addition, note 1 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Cash balances and borrowings are included in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and accordingly have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guide for Directors of UK Companies 2009.
Information on the business environment Filtrona operates in, including factors likely to affect its future development, is included in the Business Review on pages 6 to 41.
By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary & General Counsel 24 February 2011 50 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare its parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Mark Harper Steve Crummett Chief Executive Group Finance Director BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Report of the Remuneration Committee This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2010 sets out the policies under which the Executive and Non-executive Directors are remunerated and incorporates tables of information showing details of the remuneration and share interests of the Directors.
As required by the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations, this Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Report is intended to be in full compliance with the requirements of the Regulations and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
KPMG Audit Plc have audited the contents of the Report to the extent required by the Regulations.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as applied to Filtronas senior executives, including Executive Directors.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee during the year consisted wholly of independent Non-executive Directors: Paul Drechsler Chairman Lars Emilson Terry Twigger The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys Chairman, Chief Executive and Director of Group Human Resources may, by invitation, attend the Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee, which are reviewed annually, can be found on the Companys website www.
The Remuneration Committees key objectives are to: Align senior executives remuneration with the interests of the shareholders and other stakeholders, particularly in the design of the performance-related elements of their remuneration packages Establish a competitive remuneration package attracting, retaining and motivating high quality management Promote the achievement of both the Companys annual and longer-term strategic objectives by providing a remuneration package that contains appropriately motivating targets The Remuneration Committees main responsibilities are to: Develop the Groups remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior executives, covering basic salary, bonus, long-term incentives, retirement provisions, and other benefits Strike an appropriate balance between i the fixed and variable, and ii the cash and equity-related components of total remuneration packages Review and determine the terms of employment and remuneration of the individual Executive Directors, including any specific retirement or severance terms Determine the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board Establish and review the operation of any employee share plans, including the granting of awards, the setting and testing of performance conditions and exercising of any awards under the Long-Term Incentive Plans LTIP Select, appoint and determine the terms of reference for independent consultants to advise the Remuneration Committee on remuneration matters Remuneration Committee processes The Remuneration Committee met three times during the year.
Details of the attendance are shown in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 66.
In addition to fulfilling the above responsibilities the Remuneration Committee also undertook the following: Consideration of the changes in the Code Conducted a detailed review, in conjunction with external service providers, of the risks surrounding the Companys remuneration policies and practices Reviewed and introduced clawback provisions for the DASB Reviewed and approved a Save As You Earn share option scheme invitation for 2010 Considered best practice terms with respect to the retirement of Mark Harper as the Chief Executive and the recruitment of Colin Day as his successor see page 53 for further details 52 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Advice During the year, Filtronas Director of Group Human Resources was invited by the Remuneration Committee to provide views and advice.
In addition, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee, the Company received services and advice from the following independent and expert consultants: Hewitt New Bridge Street, a part of Aon Hewitt, who provided advice on the Companys long-term share incentive plans and on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives within the Company Mercers Human Resource Consulting Mercers who provided advice and information on pension matters Mercers provide actuarial and investment consulting services to the Trustees of the UK pension schemes and Aon Hewitt provide actuarial advice to the Company for the US pension schemes.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee took account of the advice provided to the Company by  in relation to the actuarial valuation of the UK pension schemes and the actions taken to manage the liabilities of those schemes.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the Board the framework for the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Chief Executives remuneration proposals for the members of the Executive Committee and other senior executives are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and recommendations are made to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee also takes note of the remuneration policy as detailed by the Chief Executive in respect of other levels of management in the Company and makes such recommendations to the Chief Executive as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to the proposed remuneration policy for other management and employees, across the Group, when determining recommendations on remuneration for the Executive Directors, and other senior executives.
The review of the risks surrounding the Remuneration Committee policies concluded that there were no material issues of concern.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
No Director is involved in determining or voting on their own remuneration.
In determining the policy for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure that those individuals are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner having regard to the long-term performance of the Company, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
Alignment with Group strategy The Board as a whole establishes the remuneration policy and it considers the alignment of Group performance and the remuneration of its senior executives, including the Executive Directors, to be of the upmost importance.
It believes that senior management should be highly rewarded on a market competitive basis for the delivery of stretching goals but should receive reduced rewards when the business does not perform to expectations.
To achieve this alignment, Filtronas remuneration package is leveraged with a high percentage of pay at risk against the achievement of stretching goals.
Furthermore one half of any bonus is delivered in the form of Filtrona shares which normally vest after a three year period.
These requirements closely tie the long-term value of executive remuneration to the long-term interests of shareholders.
The Groups strategic priorities as set out on pages 10 to 11 are to grow profitably, invest organically, acquire in selected markets, build on care competencies and to deliver long-term value to shareholders.
Those priorities are reflected closely in the design of the remuneration packages which seek to drive their delivery through a combination of financially driven targets, key personal objectives based around operational issues and relative shareholder return.
Remuneration packages for senior executives including the Executive Directors consist of: Basic salary Internal and external parity in basic salary positioning is an important contributor to a motivational remuneration package.
The Committee takes into account a range of factors, including individual and corporate performance, when undertaking basic salary reviews Annual bonus plan Bonus structures are effective if they help drive the achievement of targets, whilst respecting the Companys appetite for risk and allowing for sustained profitable growth.
The targets set should not provide an incentive to promote behaviours which would be detrimental to the Companys long-term interests.
As such, management must provide robust justification for the targets it recommends.
The Remuneration Committee assures itself that the targets provide appropriate incentives and are sufficiently challenging, but remain achievable Long-term incentive plan The LTIP encourages a longer-term focus on Earnings Per Share EPS and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
These metrics measure how the Company is performing in both absolute and relative terms, for the shareholders The Remuneration Committee considers all these elements, plus pension and other benefits, as a whole.
It looks to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between them so that the need for both short-term success and long-term sustainable growth is recognised.
The Remuneration Committee also ensures that the non-financial business measures and individual objectives reflect adequately the companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior executives with those of the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has established guidelines recommending that the Executive Directors and other senior executives BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com should build a minimum shareholding in the Company over a five year period.
For Executive Directors this is the equivalent to 100% of basic salary.
Shares held in unvested LTIPs are not taken into account in assessing compliance with this guideline.
As at 31 December 2010 Mark Harper held shares to the value of more than 100% of base salary.
Under the terms of the policy Steve Crummett has five years from the date of his appointment in March 2008 to attain a 100% holding.
Non-executive Directors are encouraged, under their letters of appointment, to own a minimum of 7,500 shares.
Details of the Directors shareholding can be found on page 61.
Retirement of Mark Harper As announced on 13 January 2011, Mark Harper will stand down from the Board at the Companys AGM on 14 April 2011 and retire from the Company on 5 May 2011.
Mark has worked for the Company for 25 years and has led the Company for over 15 years becoming Managing Director of Filtrona in 1996 and Chief Executive in May 2005.
Mark will receive salary, benefits and pension contributions until the date of his departure from the Company.
The Committee has determined that any bonus earned in respect of 2010 and 2011 pro-rata entitlement will be paid in cash with no share deferral requirement following receipt of the Companys audited accounts for the relevant financial year.
Marks bonus in respect of 2010 was 515,100, see page 54 for further details.
His outstanding share awards under LTIP Part B will continue to vest on the normal vesting dates, subject to performance and time pro-rating.
Any outstanding deferred shares granted under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASB will be transferred to him on departure from the Company.
Mark Harper is a member of the Filtrona Senior Pension Scheme FSPS which entitles him to a pension at the date of retirement based on final salary.
The normal retirement age of the scheme is 60.
In accordance with the rules of the FSPS, which are applicable to all members, early retirement can be taken from the age of 55.
Pension accrued at that date will be subject to discount factors applied in accordance with the rules of the FSPS.
Recruitment of Colin Day Colin Day will join the Company as Chief Executive on 1 April 2011.
The terms of his appointment are consistent with Filtronas existing remuneration policy, as set out in this Remuneration Report, save for the annual bonus where, to be competitive, his maximum bonus will be capped at 125% of salary 62.5% in cash and 62.5% DASB.
He will participate in the LTIP on the same terms as the other Directors.
Colin has been appointed on a salary of 550,000 per annum and he will receive a 25% of salary cash supplement in lieu of pension benefits.
It is intended that a grant of LTIP Part B share awards equivalent to 150% of his basic salary will be made to Colin as soon as practicable on or after 1 April 2011.
The Committee believes that such a package is appropriate given Colins extensive experience and reputation both in the UK and internationally.
Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration for 2011 Type Objective Performance Period Policy Basic salary To reflect the particular skills and Annual Pay is determined by reference to the skills and experience of an individual and to reviewed performance of the individual, their role and provide a competitive base salary on 1 January responsibilities and external market data.
The compared with similar roles in Committee also takes into account pay and similar companies.
employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when considering increases to base salary levels.
1 Annual cash bonus To incentivise the delivery of Annual Normally one half of the total annual bonus is paid in Group performance-related cash.
80% of the bonus opportunity is calculated by objectives.
reference to operating profit at constant exchange rates and 20% by reference to personal objectives.
Deferred Annual Share To aid retention and to align 3 years The aggregate value of shares made subject to any 1 Bonus Directors interests with those of award granted under the DASB in any one financial the Companys shareholders.
year will normally not exceed one half of the total annual bonus and is provided as a match to the To incentivise the delivery of quantum of annual cash bonus earned.
Long-Term Incentive To drive the long-term delivery 3 years Performance share awards worth up to 150% of basic Plan LTIP of the Groups objectives, aid salary, granted subject to the Companys relative TSR retention and to align Directors performance 50% of awards and the Companys interests with those of the adjusted EPS performance 50% of awards, both Companys shareholders.
measured over a fixed three year period.
Pension To provide benefits comparable n a For the defined benefit scheme pension benefits are with similar roles in similar based, fully or partly, on final basic salary.
defined contribution scheme pension benefits are based on the contributions made and investment decisions.
Other benefits To provide benefits comparable n a Other benefits comprise medical expenses with similar roles in similar insurance, and a car and fuel allowance.
1 The maximum annual bonus in any one year is capped at 100% of salary 125% of salary for Colin Day normally comprising of one half annual cash bonus and one half DASB award 54 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued The Remuneration Committee structures senior executive remuneration in two distinct parts i fixed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and ii variable performance-related remuneration in the form of cash bonuses, deferred share bonuses and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable performance-related pay element forms a significant portion of each package.
The majority of total remuneration at the maximum performance level will derive from the Companys incentive arrangements, which are strongly aligned to the Companys strategic objective to secure long-term shareholder value.
Target Colin Day Stretch Target Steve Crummett Stretch 0 20 40 60 80 100 Total Remuneration % Fixed pay salary, other benefits and pension Short-term incentive pay cash bonus and DASB Long-term incentive pay performance shares Components of Directors remuneration for 2010 The emoluments of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2010 were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 31 Dec Cash 2010 Cash 2009 Fees Salary bonus Benefits Total Fees Salary bonus Benefits Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mark Harper 515 515 17 1,047 505 51 23 579 1 2 Steve Crummett 281 140 69 490 275 28 68 371 Non-executive Directors Jeff Harris 164 164 161 161 Paul Drechsler 51 51 50 50 Lars Emilson 38 38 37 37 3 Terry Twigger 47 47 23 23 4 Adrian Auer 19 19 1 Includes a supplementary payment of 56,100 to allow the securing of pension benefits 2 Includes a supplementary payment of 55,000 to allow the securing of pension benefits 3 Appointed 1 June 2009 4 Resigned 1 June 2009 The Company paid pension contributions for Steve Crummett of 6,180 into a defined contribution pension plan in 2010 which forms part of the supplementary payment.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com Salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual and pay awards and conditions elsewhere in the Company.
Salaries are reviewed annually with any increase being effective from 1 January unless responsibilities change.
Salary levels are determined taking into account market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies.
The Company aims to position base salary around the mid-market level of the relevant comparator companies to remain competitive.
A review of salary levels was undertaken in December 2010.
Whilst the Company does not have a fixed policy on annual pay awards they aim to pay fairly across all employees.
Taking into account average pay awards across the Group, the need for continuity during the change of leadership in 2011 and having regard to his performance and development over the last 12 months, the Committee awarded Steve Crummett an increase of 5.2%.
Mark Harper was awarded an increase of 2.5%.
Mark Harper Colin Day Steve Crummett 1 2 2 Annual salary effective from 1 January 2011 528,000 550,000 295,000 2 Annual salary effective from 1 January 2010 515,100 N a 280,500 1 Or date of appointment 2 Excluding supplementary pension payment Annual bonuses Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2010, Mark Harper and Steve Crummett were each potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 100% of basic salary.
Bonus payments are made 50% in cash and 50% in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, in accordance with the rules of the DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2010 the financial performance targets, accounting for 80% of the bonus opportunity, were approved by the Remuneration Committee and were based upon Filtronas adjusted operating profit and with reference to continuing operations adjusted earnings per share at constant exchange rates performance relative to prior year.
Company performance was required to reach a minimum threshold operating profit of 54.5 million for a cash bonus of 12% of basic salary to be payable.
In addition the Executive Directors had the opportunity, subject to the achievement of personal objectives, to be entitled to a bonus of up to 20% of salary.
For the year ended 31 December 2010, the Company having exceeded the stretch performance of adjusted operating profit of 63.8 million the Remuneration Committee approved a total bonus of 80% of basic salary for each of the Executive Directors based on financial performance.
In addition the Executive Directors received a further 20% of salary based on achievement of their personal objectives.
Steve Crummett will have his bonus paid 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares under the DASB.
Mark Harper will have his total bonus for 2010 paid in cash, in accordance with the terms agreed by the Remuneration Committee in relation to his retirement from the Company in May 2011.
The annual bonus including DASB element is intended to operate along the same lines for 2011.
The maximum bonus opportunity will be 100% of salary for Steve Crummett and Mark Harper pro-rata entitlement based on time served and 125% of salary for Colin Day.
The performance targets will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
The bonus will continue to be paid one half in cash and one half in shares DASB, except for any bonus due to Mark Harper which will be paid in cash on the normal payment date, in accordance with the terms agreed by the Remuneration Committee in relation to his retirement from the Company.
Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The DASB provides for Executive Directors and other senior executives to receive existing issued ordinary shares in the Company for nil payment.
The number of shares subject to an award is determined at the time the award is granted, based upon the performance in Filtronas preceding financial year of the participant and or the Company and or the division in which the participant worked.
Under the rules of the DASB the aggregate value of shares made subject to awards granted to a participant in any one financial year may not exceed 100% of their basic salary as at the award date.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that, in accordance with the Companys bonus arrangements, awards under DASB will not normally exceed one half of the total annual bonus.
Shares awarded under the DASB are held in trust until 1 March in the third calendar year after the year in which the award was made or any such other later date as the Company may determine is reasonably practicable, at which point they are transferred to the participant subject to the participants continued employment within the Group.
