ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Corporate Governance Report The Board considers that, during the 2010 The composition of the Board has also been The ENRC Board takes financial year, it complied with the Code considered, as detailed below.
In particular in all respects with the exception of the the Nomination Committee has begun a its responsibility under decision not to use an external agency when search for a new Chief Executive Officer with the Combined Code on appointing Professor Dr Dieter Ameling.
The assistance from an external search agency.
circumstances surrounding his appointment Furthermore, the Board is currently reviewing Corporate Governance, are detailed below.
its composition, recognising the importance of balancing the skills and experience of the as published in June The Boards role is to lead the Company Directors as well as ensuring an appropriate 2008 the Code, very by ensuring good management from balance of independent and other directors.
the top downwards and there is a formal It is mindful of the need to ensure that it does seriously, recognising that schedule of matters reserved for the Board not become so large as to be unwieldy.
which includes: the Board sets the values The Board discussed its approach to setting the long-term objectives and corporate governance at several meetings and standards that are commercial strategy of the Company: during the year.
In November, the Board used to guide the affairs reviewed a schedule detailing its compliance agreeing policies and processes to guide with the UK Corporate Governance Code the affairs of the Company: of the Company.
The Company will report responsibility for the overall management on its compliance with the new Code in of the Group: the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
agreeing any changes to the Companys Board composition structure and capital: At the start of 2010 the Board comprised responsibility for financial reporting and 12 Directors.
Professor Dr Ameling was controls: and appointed as a non-executive Director on 26 January 2010.
The Board had identified approving major capital projects.
a need to strengthen the balance between executive and non-executive Directors and This schedule is published on the Companys to increase its understanding of the steel website.
markets: a need that would be addressed by appointing a non-executive Director During the year, the Board discussed a with good manufacturing or metallurgical variety of issues including mergers and experience.
Professor Dr Ameling was acquisitions opportunities and the integration already known to the Board as a highly of the newly acquired African assets into respected expert in his field.
Through his the rest of the business.
A two-day off-site work for the World Steel Association he is meeting was held, which allowed the Board the chairman of two international projects: to focus on strategy and the long term Steel 2010 in China and Steel 2020 in objectives of the Group.
Health and safety India, giving him a wide knowledge of the was a significant area of interest during Companys worldwide customer base.
In particular the Board requested His knowledge of the steel industry was and received detailed analyses of the events recognised as a major strength to the surrounding the fatalities that occurred Company and, as such, neither an external within its businesses and discussed search consultancy nor open advertising steps taken to improve health and safety was used for this appointment.
The Board also recognised the importance The ownership of the Company is such of increasing its commercial awareness that the Board has major shareholder groups and responded to this by appointing with which to deal.
During the year the Board Mr Jim Cochrane to the Board as an has discussed its approach to investor Executive Director on 13 August 2010. relations which reflected the importance of Mr Cochrane is a mining engineer with maintaining a balance between the interests 20 years experience in the industry.
He of the major shareholders, the Government joined the Group in 2001 and in addition of Kazakhstan and other shareholders.
The to heading the Sales and Marketing function Board has had extensive engagement with he has responsibility for the Logistics function both the Government of Kazakhstan and of the Group.
the Founder Shareholders, covering such issues as Board and governance procedures.
As at 31 December 2010 the Board This engagement has at times been robust comprised 14 Directors.
In addition to in nature: however, the Board has maintained the Chairman, who is not considered its independence in keeping with its independent, there were 10 non-executive responsibility to represent the interests Directors.
Seven of these are considered of all shareholders.
by the Board to be independent.
Directors biographies are shown on pages 58 and 59.
66 Unlocking Resources Corporate Governance Report continued Under a relationship agreement with the outside Board meetings to ensure that he arranged to discuss strategy, to which the Company, each of the Founder Shareholders understands their views.
One meeting of the Company has a right to appoint was attended by the non-executive Directors one Director to the Board, subject to them The Chief Executive Officer is responsible only to discuss the performance of using reasonable endeavours to ensure for the operational management of the management.
Where a Director was unable that there is a majority of independent Group and the execution of the Groups to attend a meeting, he was still supplied non-executive Directors on the Board, strategy.
He is responsible for optimising with the papers before the meeting and provided his shareholder group controls the use of the Groups resources, managing was able to discuss the business with the at least 10% or more of the voting rights the Groups risk profile and appointing senior Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
exercisable at general meetings of the management.
Mr Ibragimov has exercised Four scheduled Board sub-Committee this right and appointed Mr Abdraman Mr Felix Vulis was Chief Executive Officer meetings were held during the year.
For personal reasons he The seven ad hoc meetings were held to Mr Yedilbayev is therefore not considered tendered his resignation to the Company discuss and implement various acquisitions.
Mr Eduard on 4 February 2011 but has agreed to Utepov and Mr Marat Beketayev are also not remain in his post until a successor is found.
The schedule below shows the Directors considered by the Board to be independent The Nomination Committee is currently attendance at scheduled Board and as both are representatives of The State undertaking the process to identify a Committee meetings.
Property and Privatisation Committee new Chief Executive Officer using an external of the Ministry of Finance of the Republic search consultancy.
Activities during the year of Kazakhstan.
The non-independent, The growth of the Group through non-executive Directors contribute equally Sir Richard Sykes is the Senior Independent acquisitions created governance challenges to discussions at Board meetings and each Director and non-executive Deputy during 2010.
The CAMEC acquisition in late is a member of the HSES Committee.
In his role as Senior Independent 2009 was a major step into a new territory Mr Beketayev additionally serves on the Director, Sir Richard is responsible for and much consideration was given to Mergers and Acquisitions Committee and addressing any shareholder concerns that ensuring that appropriate information was the Nomination Committee.
cannot or should not be channelled through being brought to the Board.
Significant focus the Chairman or the Executive Directors.
was given to achieving the integration of The roles of the Chairman and Chief He is also responsible for ensuring that financial reporting, and the consistency of Executive Officer are separate and their the Chairmans performance evaluation health and safety reporting has also been responsibilities are clearly defined in writing.
The Chairman, Dr Johannes Sittard, is responsible for leading the Board and Board processes The Group made significant progress in its ensuring that it functions effectively.
This Ten Board meetings and 11 Board diversification strategy in 2010, with material sub-Committee meetings were held during additions to the Groups scope in both includes setting the agenda for Board meetings, ensuring that the Board receives the year.
Eight of the Board meetings were central Africa and Brazil.
The pace of regular scheduled meetings, and two were acquisitions in 2010 meant that some accurate, timely and clear information, and facilitating communication with shareholders.
called to deal with specific issues relating Board and Committee meetings were held to acquisitions.
One Board meeting was at short notice.
Nevertheless on each He liaises with his fellow Directors frequently Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during 2010 Scheduled Board meetings attended Audit Remuneration Nomination HSES M&A Independent 2010 Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Yes 7 8 2 2 4 5 Mr Gerhard Ammann Yes 8 8 5 5 2 2 2 Mr Marat Beketayev No 6 8 1 2 0 1 1 6 3 Mr Jim Cochrane No 4 4 Mr Mehmet Dalman Yes 8 8 6 6 6 6 Sir Paul Judge Yes 8 8 5 5 4 6 Mr Kenneth Olisa Yes 6 8 4 5 5 6 Dr Johannes Sittard No 8 8 2 2 2 2 Sir Richard Sykes Yes 7 8 6 6 1 2 5 6 Mr Roderick Thomson Yes 7 8 5 5 2 2 Mr Eduard Utepov No 6 8 0 2 Mr Felix Vulis No 8 8 2 2 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev No 8 8 2 2 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova No 8 8 1 Prof Dr Ameling was appointed to the M&A Committee and to the HSES Committee on 19 March 2010 2 Mr Beketayev was appointed to the HSES Committee on 13 August 2010 3 Mr Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 13 August 2010 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 occasion paperwork was distributed in to good corporate governance.
Board and the Board on all corporate governance advance and, where Directors were unable Committee papers are generally distributed issues and for ensuring that all applicable to attend a meeting in person, conference at least a week before the scheduled legislation and Board procedures are facilities were made available to provide meetings to enable Directors to read and followed.
He is also responsible for ensuring an alternative means of participation.
understand the issues to be discussed.
Work good information flows between the Board The Board members recognised the risk to improve both the process and the content and its Committees and between senior of acquisitions to the Groups reputation.
of Board and Committee papers continues.
management and the non-executive The Board discussed all acquisitions Directors.
In conjunction with the Chairman, thoroughly, recognising that these The Board frequently receives presentations he is responsible for ensuring that the Board transactions held considerable value and updates from senior managers below and Committee members receive potential.
The Board sought to balance Board level: not only does this give the appropriate training and development.
the opportunities that they offered with the Directors the opportunity to question During 2010 this included providing Board demands that each would place on internal employees about the running of the inductions for Professor Dr Dieter Ameling resources and the complexity of realising the business, it also gives senior managers and Mr Jim Cochrane, detailed presentations synergies of integration.
The Board members the chance to meet the Directors and gain to all the Directors on the UK Bribery Act placed considerable emphasis on thorough a better understanding of their concerns.
In 2010, and providing various updates on financial and legal due diligence and risk 2010, these presentations included regular corporate governance and risk.
The assessment in order to ensure optimal return updates from the Head of Investor Relations, appointment and removal of the General for shareholders over the life of the projects.
operational reports from the CEOs of the Counsel and Company Secretary is a matter Groups businesses in Africa and reserved for the Board.
In particular, the Group undertook extensive Kazakhstan, and briefings from the Group due diligence before the acquisition of Head of Risk and the Group Treasurer.
Committees Camrose in August 2010, and the Board In addition, all the General Directors were The Board has established five principal had robust debate to ensure that the risks invited to attend the Board strategy meeting Board Committees: Audit Committee, associated with that transaction were held in September.
Remuneration Committee, Nomination understood fully and mitigated properly.
Committee, Mergers and Acquisitions Whilst no Board meeting was held at an Committee and the Health, Safety, All Directors contribute to Board discussion, operational site during 2010, the Directors Environment and Sustainability Committee are encouraged to make individual visits to HSES Committee.
The General Counsel although where a Director has a situational conflict he is not entitled to vote on the the Groups operations, particularly to the and Company Secretary is secretary to each new sites in Africa.
Sir Richard Sykes visited of these Committees.
The terms of reference issue in question.
All situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the Nomination the Groups operations in the Democratic of each of these Committees are available Republic of the Congo in October 2010. on the Companys website.
Committee which then makes a recommendation to the Board on whether It is planned that a Board meeting will be held in Kazakhstan in 2011.
During the year, the Nomination Committee such situational conflicts should continue to be approved.
recommended that the HSES Committees All the Directors have access to the General membership should be extended to include The Company recognises that supplying Counsel and Company Secretary for support Professor Dr Dieter Ameling, Mr Marat and advice.
He is responsible for advising Beketayev and two managers of the Group, the Board with good information is essential Committees Audit Nomination Remuneration HSES M&A Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee chairman Gerhard Ammann Dr Johannes Sittard Sir Richard Sykes Felix Vulis Mehmet Dalman Sir Paul Judge Gerhard Ammann Mehmet Dalman Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Kenneth Olisa Marat Beketayev Sir Paul Judge Marat Beketayev Marat Beketayev Roderick Thomson Sir Richard Sykes Kenneth Olisa Victor Hanna Sir Richard Sykes Roderick Thomson Patrice L'Huillier Dr Johannes Sittard Eduard Utepov Abdraman Yedilbayev 68 Unlocking Resources Corporate Governance Report continued Mr Patrice LHuillier and Mr Victor Hanna, commencement of service, he also invites The Audit Committee remains satisfied thus ensuring operational input from the Head of Group Risk and the Group with  LLPs Kazakhstan and Africa.
The composition Global Head of Compliance to attend effectiveness and independence and to of the Board Committees is now as and update the Committee at each of date has not considered it necessary to shown overleaf.
The external auditors are require the firm to tender for its audit work.
also invited to each meeting of the Audit Audit Committee Committee and they meet separately However, the external auditors are required Mr Gerhard Ammann chairs the Audit with the Committee members, without to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Committee.
Mr Ammann has had over management being present, at least once Group audits every five years.
The current 30 years experience as an auditor including a year.
lead partner has been in place for four years.
being chairman of Deloitte in Switzerland until 2007.
The Board therefore considers The Audit Committee held five scheduled The Audit Committee also reviews the level that he has had recent relevant financial meetings and two ad hoc meetings by and nature of any non-audit work to be experience.
The remaining Audit Committee telephone conference call in 2010.
During performed during the year and considers members are Sir Paul Judge, Mr Kenneth the year the following items were reviewed: whether it is appropriate for this work to Olisa, and Mr Roderick Thomson, all of be carried out by the external auditors.
whom are regarded by the Board as accounting policies, estimates and The Audit Committee maintains a policy independent non-executive Directors and judgements including methodology and regarding acceptable non-audit work, which each of whom has extensive business results of the Groups annual impairment incorporates authority levels for approving experience.
The Company complies with review: such work.
The auditors are precluded the Code recommendations regarding from engaging in non-audit services that membership of the Audit Committee.
confirmation of the ability of the Group would compromise their independence to continue as a going concern: and objectivity or violate any laws or Under its terms of reference, which are regulations affecting their appointment as available on the Companys website, the the Preliminary and Interim Results auditors.
Note 34 to the financial statements Committee is required to meet at least announcements, financial statements shows the value of the non-audit work carried four times a year and, among other issues, and Annual Report and Accounts: out by  LLP during considers: the year.
all internal audit reports and investigations: the integrity of the Companys financial Internal audit reporting: the integration of CAMEC and other The Head of Internal Audit is invited to attend acquisitions: each Audit Committee meeting where he the internal controls and risk management provides assurance, independent of the systems: internal controls and risk management: assurance provided by the Chief Financial Officer, that internal control activities, which the effectiveness of the internal audit compliance, including training on the have been subject to audit by his team, are function: and UK Bribery Act 2010: and operating effectively.
the relationship with the external auditors.
The Group has an Internal Audit Charter which states that the Internal Audit Director The Audit Committee meetings are aligned The Committee also received regular is accountable to the Audit Committee and with the corporate reporting cycle to enable updates on the progress of Project Arrow is to provide ENRC Group management the Committee to discharge its duties an ongoing programme to improve the with the following: effectively.
In particular the Committee efficiency of reporting systems.
schedules its meetings to enable it to an independent, objective, positive review and comment on key financial External audit assurance on effectiveness of internal  LLP have been controls: and announcements before making recommendations to the Board for the Companys auditors since before it was listed on the London Stock Exchange in a value-adding consulting service their release.
The Audit Committee designed to improve the effectiveness reviews the overall performance of the and efficiency of the Groups operations The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports verbally to the Board on the actions auditors annually and is responsible for and to safeguard both the assets and making formal recommendations each the integrity of the Group.
of the Committee and updates the Board on any issues which require further investigation, year to the Board on the continuation of the external auditors in office.
During 2010, the Internal Audit function action or improvement.
carried out a programme of planned reviews.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the In addition, ad hoc reviews included the Whilst only members of the Committee are entitled to attend meetings, the Chairman Board for ensuring that the external auditors following: remain independent of the Company in invites the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, the General Counsel and all material respects and that they have investigations into procurement and adequate resources available to them to capital expenditure: Company Secretary and the Chairman of the Board to attend.
In addition, he invites enable the delivery of an objective audit to the shareholders.
investigation into treasury controls: and the Head of Internal Audit and, since their a review of related party contracts.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 69 Whistleblowing The Nomination Committee also reviewed The remuneration of the Chairman and The Audit Committee reviews the the composition of the Board and non-executive Directors is a matter reserved arrangements by which employees can recommended the appointments for the Board.
The non-executive Directors raise any concerns they may have about of Professor Dr Dieter Ameling as a do not review their own remuneration.
workplace fraud or mismanagement with non-executive Director and Mr Jim Cochrane local management on a confidential basis.
Professor During 2010 the Remuneration Committee Dr Ameling joined the Board on 26 January met six times.
The Committee met: All whistleblowing incidents are taken very 2010 and Mr Cochrane joined the Board seriously by the Committee.
Any complaint on 13 August 2010. to approve the bonus payments awarded is investigated in the first instance and in respect of performance in 2009: a decision taken about further steps.
The Committee reviewed all existing Feedback is provided to the person making conflicting situations and recommended to determine and approve the the complaint.
Written records are kept of all that the Board reconfirmed its approval performance targets for bonus whistleblowing incidents and a regular status of these.
It also reviewed all new conflicting arrangements for Executive Committee situations and recommended their approval members in respect of 2010: report is presented at each Board meeting.
to approve the awards made under the During 2010, the Committee held two telephone conference calls specifically Remuneration Committee Long Term Incentive Plan in April 2010: Sir Richard Sykes chairs the Remuneration and to address whistleblowing allegations.
The other members are Mr Mehmet Dalman, Sir Paul Judge and Mr to determine the remuneration of In 2011, the whistleblowing procedure is being upgraded with the introduction of Kenneth Olisa, all of whom are independent Mr Jim Cochrane on his appointment non-executive Directors.
The Company as an Executive Director.
an external whistleblowing helpline, available in four languages.
complies with the Code recommendations regarding membership of the Remuneration The Committee also reviewed the Nomination Committee Committee.
Whilst only the members of the remuneration packages of both the Chief Committee are entitled to attend its meeting, Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Dr Johannes Sittard chairs the Nomination Committee.
The other Committee members the Chief Executive Officer is also invited Officer during 2010.
It gave considerable by the Committee Chairman to attend its attention to the alignment of senior are Mr Gerhard Ammann, Mr Marat Beketayev, Sir Richard Sykes and Mr meetings, but he does not attend on matters management bonuses with health and safety relating to his own remuneration.
The Committee agreed that, for Roderick Thomson.
The Company complies with the Code recommendations regarding each member of the Executive Committee, Under its terms of reference, which are 15% of their potential bonus would be based membership of the Nomination Committee.
available on the Companys website, on the health and safety performance of the Committee is required to meet at least the Group.
The Committee also agreed Under its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys website, the twice a year and, among other issues, it: that the safety performance of each General Directors mine, plant, or division Committee is required to meet at least twice a year and, among other issues, considers: determines and recommends to would determine 25% of that General the Board the broad policy for the Directors bonus.
the size, structure and composition remuneration of Executive Directors and members of the senior management The Committee commissioned Kepler of the Board, taking into account the skills, knowledge and experience of the team: Associates to carry out a comprehensive review of senior executive remuneration Directors and to recommend to the Board any new candidates: determines the policy and scope for and will consider Keplers review in 2011. pension rights for each Executive Director: whether non-executive Directors have Further details are included in the Directors approves the design of any Remuneration Report, which is set out sufficient time to devote to the proper performance of their duties: performance-related pay schemes on pages 73 to 78.
A resolution to approve operated by the Group and determines the Directors Remuneration Report will making recommendations in relation to the relevant performance targets as well be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
as approving annual payments made the retirement and re-election of Directors at the Companys AGM: and under such schemes: Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee succession planning.
reviews the design of any share incentive the HSES Committee plans for approval by the Board and Mr Felix Vulis chairs the HSES Committee.
The Committee has assumed responsibility shareholders and determines the The other members are Professor Dr Dieter performance targets and the appropriate Ameling, Mr Marat Beketayev, Mr Victor for monitoring Directors conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest in accordance level of annual awards to be made: and Hanna, Mr Patrice LHuillier, Dr Johannes Sittard, Mr Eduard Utepov and Mr Abdraman with the Companies Act 2006 and for making recommendations to the Board about ensures that any compensation payments Yedilbayev.
Mr Hanna and Mr LHuillier were made in respect of termination of contracts appointed to the Committee during 2010 whether such conflicts should be approved.
are fair to the individual but do not reward to increase operational input.
Mr Beketayev failure and that the duty to mitigate loss to was also appointed to the Committee The Committee met twice in 2010.
It reviewed the composition of the Board Committees the Company is recognised.
during 2010. and recommended to the Board that the size of the HSES Committee be increased to ensure greater operational input.
70 Unlocking Resources Corporate Governance Report continued Under its terms of reference, which are The M&A Committee met six times during Training and development available on the Companys website, the 2010 and its recommendations to the Board The Chairman is responsible for arranging Committee is required to meet at least twice included the acquisition of a 90% stake in the training and development of the a year and, among other things, it considers: Chambishi Metals PLC, the acquisition of Directors.
During 2010, inductions were shares in Northam Platinum, the acquisition given to Professor Dr Ameling and health, safety, environment and of a 50.5% stake in Camrose, the acquisition Mr Cochrane, and Board training was community risks: of the outstanding 50% interest in Bahia provided on the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Minerals BV and the acquisition of 100% role of Investor Relations, risk management the Groups compliance with applicable of Minerao Minas Bahia SA.
and on the process for modelling cash flow legal and regulatory requirements and capital expenditure at Group level.
In associated with health, safety, Board evaluation addition, the Audit Committee members environment and community matters: In 2009 an internal Board evaluation process received separate training sessions on the was carried out, and the Board subsequently UK Bribery Act 2010 and on assessing risk the Groups performance in relation concluded that for 2010 an externally in practice.
to health, safety, environment and facilitated review was appropriate.
Towards community impact and monitoring the end of 2010 the Company invited Risk management and internal control ICSA Board Evaluation to carry out an Risk management sustainable development initiatives: and independent Board evaluation.
This process The Board is ultimately responsible for the preparation of a report by the was started early in 2011 and the results maintaining a sound risk management and Committee to be included in the of the interviews with Directors will be internal control system to ensure compliance discussed by the Board during spring.
with the requirements of the Combined Annual Report and Accounts.
The key area for focus in 2011 will be the Code on Corporate Governance and the composition of the Board to ensure that it Turnbull Guidance on internal control and The Committee met twice in 2010 and four meetings are scheduled for 2011. continues to be effective, with the level of risk management.
skills and experience that is appropriate for During the year the Committee discussed the Group at this stage of its development In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and with shareholder representation that a review of the effectiveness of the risk the different approaches to recording injuries in Kazakhstan and Africa, and focused on is balanced.
The Board will undertake the management system is undertaken annually recruitment of a new CEO and will also by the Board.
achieving a consistent methodology across the Group.
The Committee reviewed the consider senior level succession planning.
Executive Committee the ExCom work done by DuPont to enhance the safety culture of the Group through improved In December 2010, the non-executive The ExCom has specific responsibility as the Directors met without management present risk management committee for the Groups information flows and better education.
It also discussed sustainability and and the Senior Independent Director led system of risk management.
It reviews the the evaluation of the performance of the Groups significant risks and subsequently corporate social responsibility reporting.
reports to the Audit Committee on material changes and the associated mitigating Further details of the work of the HSES Committee are set out in the Sustainability The Company supports the actions.
recommendation in the UK Corporate review on pages 48 to 52.
Governance Code that all Directors should Enterprise-wide risk management be subject to annual reappointment.
In 2011 The ExCom considers the careful and Mergers and Acquisitions Committee the M&A Committee Mr Marat Beketayev, Mr Mehmet Dalman, appropriate management of risk as an Sir Richard Sykes and Mr Eduard Utepov important management role.
Managing Mr Mehmet Dalman chairs the M&A Committee.
The other members are will retire by rotation and stand for business risk to deliver opportunities is a key re-election.
Mr Jim Cochrane, having been element of all the Groups business activities.
Professor Dr Dieter Ameling, Mr Marat Beketayev and Sir Richard Sykes.
appointed since the 2010 AGM, will also stand for election.
In addition, as the The significant business risks are understood Under the Committee terms of reference, Company has decided that all Directors and documented.
The business context should stand for election at each AGM determines in each situation the level of which are available on the Companys website, the Committee is required to from 2011 onwards, Prof Dr Ameling, acceptable risk and controls.
Mr Ammann, Sir Paul Judge, Mr Olisa, meet at least twice a year and, among other things, it: Dr Sittard, Mr Thomson, Mr Vulis, The main features of the Groups system Mr Yedilbayev and Dr Zaurbekova will of risk management include: reviews and discusses with management stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Nomination Committee will Group statements on strategic direction: the necessary due diligence required on prospective mergers and acquisitions make recommendations to the Board on the continuation in office of each Director every clear business objectives and business projects: year, taking into consideration the Directors principles: effectiveness and commitment to the role.
receives detailed analyses of prospective mergers and acquisitions projects: and an established risk policy: oversees the structuring and annual review of key business risks: implementation of mergers and acquisitions projects.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 71 a continuing process for identification Internal control Assurance on compliance with systems of and evaluation of principal risks to the The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice internal control and on their effectiveness achievement of business objectives: on internal control for UK listed companies is obtained through: to assist them in assessing the application management processes to mitigate of the Combined Code on Corporate regular management reviews: significant risks to an acceptable level: Governance principles and compliance with the underlying provisions with regard annual testing of key internal controls: ongoing monitoring of significant risks and to internal control.
internal and external environmental factors internal audit reviews: and that may change the Groups risk profile: The Groups systems of internal control and are designed and operated to support the testing of certain aspects of the internal identification, evaluation and management financial control systems by the external a review by the Group of both the type of risks affecting the Group, including in auditors during the course of their and amount of external insurance that relation to the financial reporting process statutory examinations with regular the Group buys, bearing in mind the and the preparation of consolidated reports to the Audit Committee by the availability of such cover, its cost and accounts, and the business environment external auditors.
the likelihood and magnitude of the in which the Group operates.
of internal control are subject to continuous The Audit Committee considers the results review as circumstances change and new of the reviews to confirm that controls are In addition to the annual review of principal risks emerge.
Any material breakdowns and risks, there is a process of regular reporting remedial actions are reported to the Board to the Board through the Audit Committee Features of the systems of internal control of Directors.
on the status of the risk management include: process.
Risk management and internal control the risk management system described systems in relation to financial Risk management system evolution in the preceding section: reporting The Group continues to develop its risk The main features of the Groups systems management and internal control systems documented policies and procedures of risk management and internal control in and this includes: within the Groups businesses: relation to financial reporting, other than the general principles referred to above, are: the appointment of a Group Head of Risk: clearly defined lines of accountability: control environment communication a clear strategy to further enhance the an annual review of key internal controls: of key principles and policies, delegation Groups approach to risk management, and of authority and reports on compliance: internal control and insurance: minimising operating risk by using risk management identification of key the review and development of a Group appropriate infrastructure, controls, financial risks and appropriate responses: risk framework: systems and people throughout the businesses.
control activities management utilises improved scope and robustness of the a range of preventative and detective annual review of internal control process: The key policies employed in managing controls to minimise errors: and operating risk involve the segregation of further evolution of residual risk plans, duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, monitoring ongoing monitoring of including insurance strategy and business financial, managerial and comprehensive the above.
continuity planning: reporting and analysis against approved standards and budgets.
The systems of risk management and continued development of in-country internal control are designed to manage, risk and internal control capabilities: and Group Treasury operations manage rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to exposure to counterparty risk, liquidity achieve business objectives and can provide further refinements to the ExCom Group risk and currency transaction risks and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance risk review process.
Group Treasury coordinates the activities against material misstatement or loss.
In of Group companies in this area.
The reviewing these, the Board has taken into An enhanced top-down risk management treasury policies, risk limits and monitoring account the results of all the work carried approach has been implemented in 2010 procedures are reviewed regularly by the out by internal and external auditors.
focusing on the key risks to the execution Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
of the Group business strategy.
This will Annual review of internal control complement the current bottom-up Group Tax manages risks associated with The Group continues to improve its process aggregation methodology.
To further tax compliance, tax reporting, transfer for reviewing the systems of internal control.
enhance the Groups approach to risk pricing and tax planning.
The Group Tax For this years annual review of internal management at a business unit level, function monitors tax risk and implements control, the Group significantly increased the principles of the international standard strategies and procedures to control it.
the scope and robustness of the review for risk management ISO 31000 will be and testing process.
72 Unlocking Resources Corporate Governance Report continued Review of effectiveness The compliance function reports directly Information on investor relations activity and The Board and the Audit Committee to the General Counsel and indirectly to analysts and brokers reports are regularly the Audit Committee, and works closely circulated to the Board.
The Chairman and have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control system, with the legal, finance, risk, human resources non-executive Directors are free to attend and internal audit departments.
investor relations meetings or to request including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, meetings with investors or analysts Interaction with shareholders independent of the Groups management.
in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance to the date of approval of this Annual Report During 2010 the Group met with a large The Chairman, along with other number of shareholders and prospective non-executive Directors if appropriate, and Accounts.
investors, mainly based in the United annually conducts a number of investor Kingdom, continental Europe and the meetings focused on corporate governance.
If significant internal control failings are identified, the Board confirms that necessary United States of America, as part of a regular On an annual basis the Group undertakes schedule of meetings and deal-related meetings on sustainable development and actions will be taken to address them and these will include: roadshows.
The Group has an active and corporate social responsibility with relevant extensive investor relations programme executives and interested parties.
reports to the Audit Committee and although its free float is currently only around 18%.
Management also met with the The fourth Annual General Meeting is due Board: and if necessary Founder Shareholders and Kazakhmys PLC.
to be held on Wednesday, 8 June 2011 The Government of the Republic of and the Board welcomes the opportunity to further investigations implemented by the Audit Committee.
Kazakhstan, with two Board seats, is answer questions put to it by shareholders frequently and closely involved with the of the Company.
Remedial action plans will be monitored by Groups deliberations and the executive management.
Share capital the Audit Committee, with regular updates on progress to the Board of Directors.
The Companys share capital is described As part of its investor relations programme, on page 63.
In particular, the Internal Audit function has the Group aims to provide a high level of transparency and communication to Going concern recently identified weaknesses regarding access to internal non-financial management investors and analysts on a timely basis, The Groups business activities, together through announcements, meetings and with those factors likely to affect future data and regarding reporting lines and, under the guidance of the Audit Committee, seminars.
The Group seeks to develop a performance, are set out in the Business regular dialogue with investors and analysts review.
these points are being addressed.
and to respond to their challenges and understand their sentiments and concerns.
In assessing the Groups going concern In 2011, the two key areas on which the Group will focus are mergers The Group has a comprehensive Investor status the Directors have taken into account Relations section on its website, which the factors set out in the Business review, and acquisitions and developing the compliance function.
has up-to-date information available to all including the financial position of the Group shareholders and investors.
Shareholders and in particular its significant balances Within mergers and acquisitions, the due have the opportunity to attend and raise of cash, cash equivalents and liquid questions at the Companys Annual investments, the borrowing facilities in place diligence and integration manual has been developed and when approved will be rolled General Meeting.
and their terms, medium-term cash flow and liquidity projections, the current commodity out.
This is a complex and dynamic area for the business and it will be a clear priority for The Group aspires to have an investor prices and market expectations in the relations programme that is ranked highly medium term, the Groups expected the year ahead.
amongst its peers for its accessibility, operating cost profile and its capital responsiveness and disclosure.
The Chief expenditure and financing plans.
Following an external report on risk and compliance, a global compliance function Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Commercial Officer between them After making enquiries, the Directors have was created in 2010.
The Group Global Head of Compliance was recruited and aim to meet all major shareholders at least reasonable expectations that the Group twice a year and, along with other senior has adequate resources to continue in has now reviewed most of the operations, systems and controls in the context of management, to meet with a wide range operational existence for the foreseeable of shareholders and prospective investors future.
For this reason, they continue to compliance obligations.
Progress has been made to devise and implement adequate during the year.
In 2010 these discussions adopt the going concern basis in preparing focused on the results and businesses of procedures, as contemplated by the UK the financial statements.
The priorities for 2011 are the Group and also sought to understand any concerns held by investors.
The evidencing the tone from the top by actions: implementing and monitoring of adequate Group meets with sell-side analysts to raise the Groups profile and to build the procedures: and ensuring the different regions and businesses are staffed with research coverage.
