corporate governance The Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code the Code on Corporate Governance is part of the Listing Rules the Rules of the committees Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 45 set out how the company has applied the principles laid down by the Code.
Executive committee The executive committee is the management forum that meets each The company continues substantially to comply with the Code, save month to discuss strategy, trading outlook, results, risks, possible for the exceptions disclosed in the Directors Compliance Statement on acquisitions and divestitures, costs, forecasts, staff numbers, recruitment page 27. and training and other management issues.
It also discusses charitable matters.
It is chaired by the group chairman and comprises all executive directors plus other senior managers.
It is not empowered to make Directors decisions except those that can be made by the members in their individual capacities as executives with powers approved by the board of the company.
The discussions of the committee are summarised by the group chairman and reported to each board meeting, together with The board and its role recommendations on matters reserved for board decisions.
Details of directors who served during the year are set out on page 37.
During the year the board comprised the chairman, managing director, Nominations committee ten other executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Two of the The nominations committee is responsible for proposing candidates for six non-executive directors are independent, one is the founder and exappointment to the board having regard to the balance of skills and chairman of the company, two are directors of DMGT, an intermediate structure of the board and ensuring the appointees have sufficient time parent company, and one has served on the board for more than the available to devote to the role.
This committee meets when required recommended term of nine years under the Code.
On November 11 and comprises PM Fallon chairman of the committee, PR Ensor and 2009, B AL-Rehany was appointed to the board as an executive director.
four non-executive directors, being Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount MJ Carroll and GG Mueller resigned as executive directors on January 21 Rothermere, MWH Morgan and JC Botts.
The committees terms of 2010 and September 30 2010 respectively.
reference are available on the companys website www.
There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board, although This committee met four times during the year to recommend to the large, does not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to board: the appointment of B AL-Rehany as an executive director: the have representatives from all key areas of the business at board meetings.
appointment of DP Pritchard as chairman of the audit committee: the There is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to extension of PM Fallons and PR Ensors service contracts: and the retake independent professional advice, at the companys expense.
They election of directors retiring by rotation.
also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
In accordance with best corporate governance practice under the UK Remuneration committee Corporate Governance Code 2010, all directors will submit themselves The remuneration committee meets twice a year and additionally for annual re-election.
Newly appointed directors are submitted for as required.
It is responsible for determining the contract terms, election at the first available opportunity after their appointment.
remuneration and other benefits for executive directors, including performance related profit share schemes.
This committee also The board meets every two months and there is frequent contact recommends and monitors the level of remuneration for senior between meetings.
Board meetings take place in London, New York, management and overall, the group, including group-wide shareMontreal and Hong Kong, and occasionally in other locations where the option schemes.
The composition of the committee, details of directors group has operations.
The board has delegated specific aspects of the remuneration and interests in share-options and information on groups affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration defined terms of reference.
Details of these are set out below.
However, Report on pages 30 to 45.
The committees terms of reference are to ensure its overall control of the groups affairs, the board has reserved available on the companys website www.
com reports certain matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings are held to set .
and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, to review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major Audit committee acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
Procedures Details of the members and role of the audit committee are set out on page are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated 25.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 22 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Tax and treasury committee The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the company Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury committee are through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this he is not set out in the Directors Report on page 14. considered independent.
Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan are also executive directors The non-executive directors bring both independent views and the views of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is of the companys major shareholder to the board.
The non-executive run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and directors who served during the year, whose biographies can be found these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day management on page 21 of the accounts, were The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick of the company.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the Sergeant, JC Botts, JC Gonzalez, MWH Morgan and DP Pritchard.
company but the board does not believe these non-executive directors are able to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, nor At least once a year the companys chairman meets the non-executive does it consider their independence to be impaired by their positions directors without the executive directors being present.
However, their relationship with DMGT means they do not meet the Codes definition of independence.
The board considers JC Gonzalez and DP Pritchard to be independent non-executive directors.
Board and committee meetings Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the JC Botts has been on the board for more than the recommended term meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are of nine years under the Code and the board believes that his length of distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following service enhances his role as a non-executive director.
However, due to table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended his length of service, JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition of by the directors during the year to September 30 2010: independence.
Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board in various roles since founding the company in 1969 and has been a non-executive director since 1992 and hence, under the Code, is not considered independent.
Tax executive remuneration nominations audit & treasury board committee committee committee committee committee number of meetings held during year 6 11 3 4 3 3 executive directors PM Fallon chairman 6 11 3 2 0 PR Ensor managing director 6 9 3 2 3 NF Osborn 6 11 DC Cohen 6 10 CR Jones finance director 6 11 3 3 SM Brady 6 9 fide Alfano 6 11 GG Mueller resigned September 30 2010 6 11 MJ Carroll resigned January 21 2010 1 1 CHC Fordham 6 10 JL Wilkinson 6 11 B AL-Rehany appointed November 11 2009 6 9 non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 3 1 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 2 JC Botts 5 3 4 3 2 JC Gonzalez 4 0 MWH Morgan 6 2 4 DP Pritchard 5 3 3 JP Williams, finance director of DMGT, attends as alternate.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance corporate governance continued The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control and has taken account of material developments which board and committee have taken place since September 30 2009.
It has considered the major effectiveness business and financial risks, the control environment and the results of internal audit.
Steps have been taken to embed internal control and During the year the board, through its chairman, assessed its risk management further into the operations of the group and to deal performance and that of its committees.
The chairman surveyed each with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the board member and evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the boards attention.
In addition, each of the main committees completed a detailed questionnaire encompassing key areas within Key procedures which the directors have established with a view to their mandates.
The results of the assessment were presented and providing effective internal control, and which have been in place discussed at a board meeting and it was concluded that the board and throughout the year and up to the date of this report, are as follows: its committees had been effective throughout the year.
The board of directors As part of the performance evaluation the board are asked to assess the board normally meets six times a year to consider group strategy, the chairmans performance.
The results of the assessment are provided risk management, financial performance, acquisitions, business to the non-executive directors for review in the absence of the group development and management issues: having a senior independent director.
It was concluded that the chairman had been effective throughout the year.
the board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board: each executive director has been given responsibility for specific communication with aspects of the groups affairs: shareholders the board divides the groups key risks into six broad categories and The companys chairman, together with the board, encourages regular reviews and assesses each of these at least annually: dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings with shareholders are held, both in the UK and US, to discuss annual and interim results and highlight the board seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional through regular reports from business group management, the audit shareholders.
Private shareholders are encouraged to participate in committee and various independent monitoring functions: and the Annual General Meeting.
In line with best practice all shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at the board approves the annual forecast after performing a review which the executive directors, non-executive directors and committee of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of chairs are available for questioning.
variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The board considers The companys chairman and finance director report to fellow board longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on members matters raised by shareholders and distribute analyst notes the groups strategy and funding requirements.
on the company to ensure members of the board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the investors and In addition, from September 2009, the board established a risk potential investors view of the company.
committee whose members are responsible for managing and addressing risk matters as they arise.
The committee comprises the companys chairman, managing director and finance director.
internal control and risk During the year and up to the approval of this annual report and management accounts the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses in the groups system of internal control which it has The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation of necessary for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage actions has not been considered appropriate.
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Investment appraisal material misstatement or loss.
The managing director, finance director and business group managers consider proposals for acquisitions and new business investments.
In accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 of the Code, the board Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the board for approval has implemented a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and and are subject to due diligence by the groups finance team and, if managing the material risks faced by the group.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict authorisation controls.
For capital expenditure above specified levels, detailed written proposals must be submitted to the board and reviews are carried out to monitor progress against business plan.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 24 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Accounting and computer systems controls and procedures non-audit work performed outside this remit is assessed and where Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and appropriate approved by the committee.
It also considers the required communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention is paid to audit partner rotation plans.
The committee discusses the nature, scope authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
The groups tax, financing and findings of the audit with the external auditors and considers and and foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax and treasury determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by committee, which meets at least twice a year.
Controls and procedures the external auditors.
The committee concluded that it was in the over the security of data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed groups and shareholders interests not to tender the external audit in and are subject to internal audit.
2010 and recommends the reappointment of Deloitte as the groups auditors.
The audit committee is also responsible for monitoring and Internal audit assessing the effectiveness of internal audit, and reviews the internal The groups internal audit function is managed by DMGTs internal audit programme and receives periodic reports on its findings.
It audit department, working closely with the companys finance director.
reviews the whistle-blowing arrangements available to staff.
The audit Internal audit draws on the services of the groups central finance teams committees terms of reference are available on the companys website to assist in completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit aims to www.
provide an independent assessment as to whether effective systems and controls are in place and being operated to manage significant operating and financial risks.
It also aims to support management by going concern, debt providing cost-effective recommendations to mitigate risk and control covenants and liquidity weaknesses identified during the audit process, as well as provide insight into where cost efficiencies and monetary gains might be made by improving the operations of the business.
Businesses and The results of the groups business activities, together with the factors central departments are selected for an internal audit visit on a risklikely to affect its future development, performance and financial focused basis, taking account of the risks identified as part of the risk position, are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5. management process: the risk and materiality of each of the groups businesses: the scope and findings of external audit work: and the The financial position of the group, its cash flows and liquidity position departments and businesses reviewed previously and the findings are set out in detail in this annual report.
The group meets its day-tofrom these reviews.
This approach ensures that the internal audit day working capital requirements through its $400 million dedicated focus is placed on the higher risk areas of the group, while ensuring multi-currency borrowing facility with Daily Mail and General Trust an appropriate breadth of coverage.
DMGTs internal audit reports its plc group.
The facility is divided into four quantums of sterling and findings to management and to the audit committee.
US dollar funds with three and five year terms with a total maximum borrowing capacity of $310 million 197 million and 59 million respectively.
The facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling 12 month basis.
accountability and audit At September 30 2010, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA was 1.28 times and the committed undrawn facility available to the group was 117.8 million.
The three year quantums of the facility are due for Audit Committee renewal in December 2011 and the five year quantums in December The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard chairman, independent, 2013 see note 19 for further details.
JC Botts, JC Gonzalez independent and JP Williams, the finance director of DMGT.
DP Pritchard became chairman of the audit Trading conditions have significantly improved since September 2009, committee on September 16 2010, replacing JC Botts.
JC Botts which has reduced the uncertainty over the level of demand for the continues to be a member of the audit committee.
Three of the four groups products.
Over the last 12 months, the exchange rate between members are non-executive directors.
All members of the committee sterling and the US dollar has been more stable than a year ago although have a high level of financial literacy, JP Williams is a chartered the group remains exposed to the impact on the translation of US dollar accountant and a member of the ICAEW and DP Pritchard has profits and losses from its US dollar-based businesses and transactions considerable audit committee experience.
The committee meets at including the gains or losses from the groups forward contracts used least three times each financial year and is responsible for reviewing the to partially hedge these.
Bank credit is becoming more readily available interim report, the annual report and accounts and other related formal and the group has no pressing requirement to arrange new finance.
statements before their submission to the board, and reviewing and The group continues to operate well within the limits of its dedicated overseeing controls necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial multi-currency borrowing facility and the first quantum 64.1 million information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee advises is not due for renewal until December 2011.
Any remaining funds the board on the appointment or reappointment of external auditors drawn under the three year facility at this renewal date are expected to and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work.
It has be rolled into the unused portion of the five year facility.
set and applied a formal policy, which focuses on the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit, the type of nonaudit work permissible and a diminimus level of fees acceptable.
Any Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 25 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance corporate governance continued The groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific possible changes in trading performance, show that the group should requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand be able to operate within the level and covenants of its current the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on borrowing facility for the foreseeable future.
the entitys financial position and financial performance: and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that make an assessment of the companys ability to continue as a going the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence concern.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this annual report.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Directors responsibility comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for statement safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International other jurisdictions.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United responsibility statement Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, required to: liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of prudent: the business and the position of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
followed: and By order of the Board prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting richard ensor Standard 1 requires that directors: Director November 10 2010 properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: colin Jones Company Secretary November 10 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 26 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Contrary to provision A.
3.3, the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director as the directors are of the opinion statement by the directors that all matters relating to the effective governance of the group must on compliance with the code be dealt with by the board as a whole.
The UK Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance Provision A.
4.1 requires that the majority of the nominations committee throughout the accounting year with the applicable principles and should be comprised of independent non-executive directors.
Although provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the committee consists of four non-executive and two executive issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
Save for the exceptions directors, none of these non-executive directors can be considered outlined below, the group has complied throughout the financial year independent under the Code.
ended September 30 2010 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
4.4 states that the terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors should be available for inspection.
3.2 states that half the board, excluding the chairman, in the Directors Remuneration Report, the non-executive directors do should be composed of non-executive directors determined by the not have service contracts.
However, during the year the board comprised 18 directors, of whom six are non-executive directors.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the remuneration and audit division of responsibility within the board such that no one individual committees to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors.
has unfettered powers of decision.
The board, although large, does The remuneration committee is comprised of three non-executive not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have directors, none of whom can be considered independent under the representatives from all key areas of the business at board meetings.
During the year, the audit committee comprised four members, only three of which were non-executive directors of the company only Two of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent two of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
On behalf of the board JC Botts has been on the board for more than the recommended term of nine years under the Code and the board believes that his length of service enhances his role as a non-executive director.
However, due to his length of service, JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition of independence.
Padraic Fallon Chairman Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board in various roles since November 10 2010 founding the company in 1969 and has been a non-executive director since 1992 and hence, under the Code, is not considered independent.
The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the company through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this he is not considered independent.
The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan are also executive directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day management of the company.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the company but the board does not believe these non-executive directors are able to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, nor does it consider their independence to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 27 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
