Exillon Energy Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction The Board is committed to good corporate Governance Code when it becomes effective for the governance practices.
The Company implemented its Company in 2011.
Both the Combined Code and the governance procedures and processes following its Governance Code are available from the Financial listing in December 2009.
The Company is subject Reporting Councils website www.
"uk to the governance framework contained in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance This report describes how the Company has applied, published by the Financial Reporting Council or how it intends to apply, the principles set out in the ""Combined Code"" and will be subject to the Section 1 of the Combined Code."
Statement of Compliance It is the Boards intention to comply with Section 1 of the Combined Code in all material respects.
The Board considers, as at the date of this report that, it complies with the Combined Code.
Directors Board of Directors The Board comprises the Executive Chairman: Maksat All Directors have access to the advice and Arip, the Chief Executive Officer: Alessandro Manghi services of the Company Secretary, who is and three independent Non-executive Directors.
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are L. Stuard Detmer has been appointed the Senior followed and that applicable rules and regulations Independent Director.
The other two Non-executive are complied with.
Directors are Ezio Bracco and Anne Belvze.
Thomas Johnson is the Company Secretary of Biographical details of all the Directors at the date Exillon Energy plc.
In respect of the statutory of this report are set out on pages 18 to 19.
The aspects of the role under Isle of Man law, he is Board is responsible for setting the Companys supported by Cains Fiduciaries Limited, a corporate objectives and policies, and providing effective entity based in the Isle of Man.
The Board and leadership and the controls required for a publicly its Committees are, therefore, serviced by the listed company.
The Board has a formal schedule of Company Secretary or his designated nominee.
matters specifically reserved to it for decision which The Board will monitor the provision of company sets out those matters which require Board approval secretarial duties and take any action as appropriate and include the Groups strategy, business plan and to ensure its requirements are met.
In accordance annual budget, major capital expenditure, project with the Articles, the removal of the Company approvals and contract awards, as well as key Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Matters not reserved to the Board are generally delegated to management.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the Directors receive a suite of briefing notes and furtherance of their duties.
reports for their consideration in advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Group's Directors have the right to request that any operations, to ensure that they remain briefed concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate on the latest developments and are able to make Board or committee minutes.
The Company fully informed decisions.
The Board met five times maintains Directors and Officers Liability during 2010, four times in the Isle of Man and Insurance and indemnity cover, the level of which once by telephone conferencing from Dubai.
35 Corporate Governance Report Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Senior Independent Director The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Groups business, proposing and developing the Officer are held by different individuals and there Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives is a clear separation of roles.
The Chairmans in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the key responsibilities are the effective running executive team, implementing the decisions of the of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a Board and its Committees.
full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy, and Stuard Detmer is the Senior Independent Director.
overseeing the Boards decision-making process.
Mr Detmer is available to shareholders who There have been no changes to those commitments have concerns that cannot be resolved through since the Companys IPO.
The key responsibilities discussion with the Chief Executive Officer or of the Chief Executive Officer are managing the Chairman.
Board balance and independence The Board believes that its current membership of and, if appropriate, approve related party an Executive Chairman, one Executive Director transactions whether in relation to Mr Arip or and three Non-executive Directors is appropriate any other Director.
A description of the Conflicts given the size and structure of the Group.
Maksat Committee can be found below.
It therefore Arip entered into a Relationship Agreement with considers that no single Director can dominate the Company to ensure that the Group is capable decision-making.
of carrying on its businesses independently, and that transactions between the parties are dealt The Board has considered the guidance criteria on with on an arms length basis and on normal independence on Non-executive Directors under commercial terms and that there shall at all times the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board be a majority of Directors independent of Mr Arip.
all the Non-executive Directors are independent as defined by A.
The Board has also established a Conflicts Committee of independent Directors to consider Appointments to the Board and re-election Non-executive Directors are appointed for an on page 21 of the Directors' Report.
The letters of initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may appointment of each Non-executive Director are serve one or more three-year terms subject to available for inspection at the registered office.
The terms for the reBiographies of all the Board members appear on appointment of Directors are referred to more fully pages 18 to 19.
Information and professional development As part of the Listing process all Directors received any issues of concern they may have relating to a briefing of their duties, responsibilities and the Group or as regards their area of responsibility liabilities as a director of a public listed company.
and to keep them fully briefed on ongoing matters Directors are encouraged to keep abreast of relating to the Groups operations.
developments and attend training courses to assist them with their duties.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, will In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, provide an induction process for each new the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer maintain director tailored to their individual knowledge frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss and experience.
36 Exillon Energy Corporate Governance Report Board performance An annual performance appraisal of the Board, its and without the Executive Directors present, Committees, individual Directors and the Chairman conferred to evaluate the Chairmans performance commenced during 2010.
It was concluded that the in leading the Board and in chairing meetings to Board and committees as presently constituted were conduct the Boards business.
of the right size and its members had the breadth of experience appropriate for the Company.
These In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appraisal results were then confirmed and presented appropriate, Committee meetings, the Chairman to the Chairman and the whole Board of Directors and the Non-executive Directors also met formally on 25 February 2011. in February 2011 without executive management present to examine and review the Board On 25 February 2011, the Non-executive performance of the executive management, both Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, individually and as a team.
Board Committees The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees following its Listing and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings.
Committee Meetings Board Meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Maksat Arip 4 n a n a 2 Alessandro Manghi 5 n a n a n a L. Stuard Detmer 5 4 2 2 Ezio Bracco 4 4 2 n a Anne Belvze 5 4 2 2 Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Anne internal accounting standards and practice, the Belvze Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Stuard independence of the external auditor, the integrity Detmer.
Chairman Anne Belvze is considered of the Groups external financial reports and the to have recent and relevant financial experience.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Meetings are held at least four times a year.
The terms of reference primary duty of the Audit Committee is to oversee of the Audit Committee are included on the the accounting and financial reporting process of Companys website, www.
com the Group, the external audit arrangements, the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee the executive management as it is designated to are Stuard Detmer Chairman, Ezio Bracco and consider.
The remuneration of Non-executive Anne Belvze.
Meetings will be held at least twice Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the a year.
The primary duty of the Remuneration executive members of the Board.
No Director Committee is to determine and agree with the may be involved in any decisions as to their Board the framework or broad policy for the own remuneration.
The terms of reference of the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive Remuneration Committee are included on the Officer, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys website, www.
com Company Secretary and such other members of 37 Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are and opportunities facing the Group, and what Maksat Arip Chairman, Anne Belvze and Stuard skills and expertise are needed on the Board.
Meetings will be held at least twice a year.
is the intention to review succession plans for The Nomination Committees terms of reference, key management roles, including the Executive which are included on the Companys website, Directors, on an ongoing basis.
com, are to review regularly the structure, size and composition including All the current Board appointments were made the skills, knowledge and experience required of prior to the IPO.
The Board did not consider it apthe Board compared to its current position and propriate to use an external search agency or open make recommendations to the Board with regard advertising as part of the IPO recruitment process.
The Nominations Committee also The Nominations Committee will review the use of considers future considerations of the composition external search agencies for future appointments of the Board, taking into account the challenges when considering new appointments.
"Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Board has constituted a Corporate Social of the CSR committee are one independent Responsibility ""CSR"" Committee to develop Non-executive Director Ezio Bracco, the Chief and approve the Groups corporate social Executive Officer and the Chief Operating Officer."
responsibility policies including a new employee The CSR will meet at least twice a year and its induction process policy, policy on the reporting terms of reference are included on the Companys and investigating accidents, a code of business website, www.
com practice and a whistleblowing policy.
The members The Conflicts Committee The Board has also constituted a Conflicts the Relationship Agreement.
The members of Committee to consider and make the Conflicts Committee are Stuard Detmer recommendations to the Board with respect to Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Anne Belvze.
The conflicts of interest authorisations for members Conflicts Committee will meet immediately before of the Board, the approval of related party and or after each Board meeting, provided it has transactions and transactions governed by business to consider.
Remuneration Full details of the role and composition of the with the Combined Code provisions relating to Remuneration Committee, the remuneration remuneration are set out in the Remuneration policy of the Company and its compliance Report on pages 28 to 34.
38 Exillon Energy Corporate Governance Report Accountability and Audit Audit Committee Report The members of the Audit Committee are accounting principles and practices adopted Anne Belvze Chairman, Ezio Bracco and in the preparation of the financial statements Stuard Detmer.
Other Board members may and the basis for significant estimates and also be invited to attend committee meetings.
Meetings will be held at least four times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer will be invited to the effectiveness of the Groups system of attend meetings where appropriate and the internal control and compliance procedures.
Groups Auditors will be regularly invited to attend meetings.
At least once a year the Audit the Groups arrangements for its employees Committee will also meet the Groups external to raise concerns, in confidence, about auditors without management present.
The Audit possible wrongdoing in financial reporting Committee met four times in 2010 and has or other matters.
reviewed the following items of business: The Audit Committees recommendations on the consideration of matters relating to the accounting treatment of major transactions will be appointment of the Groups Auditors.
submitted to the Board for approval.
the independence, objectivity and There was no internal audit function in place in effectiveness of the Groups Auditors.
In view of the increased size and complexity of the Group, the Audit Committee decided in the integrity of the Groups annual March 2011 that it was appropriate for the Group preliminary results announcements and any to establish an internal audit function.
Recruitment other formal announcement relating to its is currently under way.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
com Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the The Board regularly updates a risk matrix Groups system of internal control which includes for identifying, evaluating and managing the risk management.
The Board has delegated the significant risks the Group faces, building on responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of its work in identifying risks that was undertaken at internal control systems to the Audit Committee.
the time of the Companys listing on the London The Audit Committee will review these systems, Stock Exchange.
"This process aims to follow including reviewing the risk matrix, policies current guidance on internal control issued by and processes for tendering, authorisation of the Financial Reporting Council the ""Turnbull expenditure, fraud and the resourcing of internal Guidance""."
The Audit Committee will assist the audit activity, on an annual basis.
The day-toBoard in discharging its review responsibilities.
day responsibility for managing risk and the A summary of the key risks facing the Group and maintenance of the Groups system of internal mitigating actions is described on pages 24 to 25. control is collectively assumed by management.
The system of internal control is designed to There are a number of components to the system of manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to internal controls within the Company which form achieve business objectives and can only provide the basis on which assurance is sought and these reasonable and not absolute assurance against are detailed as follows: material misstatement or loss.
A risk matrix will continue to be developed and reviewed by management and monitored by the Audit Committee.
A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and detect material error and loss.
39 Corporate Governance Report A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed by management.
Financial reporting systems are managed and monitored by line and functional management through regular reporting.
A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties.
Controls, policies and procedures under the Financial Reporting Plan prepared at the time of the Companys listing is being monitored.
Responsibility for maintaining an effective accounting for non-routine transactions.
The Audit control environment for financial reporting Committee reviews and discusses half-year and has been delegated to the Chief Financial annual financial statements with management Officer.
Management at various levels also have and the external auditors focusing on, without operational responsibility within their respective limitation, the quality and acceptability of areas.
Internal control over financial reporting accounting policies and practices, the clarity of is designed to provide reasonable assurance the disclosures and compliance with financial regarding the reliability of financial reporting and reporting standards and relevant financial and the preparation and fair presentation of published governance reporting requirement.
Consolidated financial statements are prepared on a semi-annual basis in The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Groups system of internal controls taking account Standards IFRSs issued by the International of the matters summarised above.
On the basis Accounting Standards Board IASB and the of this review and in view of a number of related Listing Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial party transactions with the Chairman which have Services Authority FSA.
Data consolidated into been set out in Note 32 to the financial statements the Groups financial statements is reconciled to on page 75, additional training of employees the underlying financial systems and management is necessary to ensure that the Groups listing accounts.
A review of the consolidated data is obligations are fully understood and complied undertaken by the Chief Financial Officer to with.
The Board is committed to ensuring that ensure that the true position and results of the the Group introduce appropriate levels of risk Group are reflected, through compliance with management and internal control for companies approved accounting policies and the appropriate listed on the London Stock Exchange.
"Auditor independence The Audit Committee also reviewed the prior approval by the Audit Committee for any new independence and effectiveness of the external engagement, reference was made to the ""Guidance auditors, accepting that their independence had for Audit Committees Reviewing Auditor been maintained throughout the audit process for Independence"", published by the Institute of the financial year."
Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
The Audit Committee monitors the types of non-audit The Audit Committee has established a policy on work that is undertaken by the external auditors the provision of non-audit services by the external to ensure that their objectivity and independence auditor.
In compiling that policy, which sets out the is not compromised.
Non-audit work performed external auditors acceptable and non-acceptable during the year principally referred to some non-audit services and a fee threshold requiring services in relation to tax.
Going Concern A statement on the Directors position regarding the Company as going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 26.
40 Exillon Energy Corporate Governance Report Share Capital Structure The Groups share capital structure is detailed in the Directors report on page 21.
Shareholder Relations As part of the Placing roadshow in June 2010 programme, to include a 2011 roadshow and the Group met with a number of investors in face-to-face meetings, is being put in place to meet London and New York.
The meetings involved the major shareholders and analysts.
Chairman, and the First Vice President, Nurlan The Annual General Meeting of the Company Assilbekov.
The Chairman and First Vice President will be an opportunity to communicate with also participated in a non-deal roadshow on shareholders and the Board welcomes their October 2010 in London.
At the beginning of participation.
The chairmen of the Remuneration, December 2010 the Companys Chief Executive Audit and Nomination Committees will endeavour Officer participated in an investor conference to be present at the Annual General Meeting to hosted by ING Bank.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 The Chairman and First Vice President are working days before the meeting.
The voting results primarily responsible for ensuring the effective will be made available on the Companys website communication of shareholders views to the following the meeting.
Board as a whole and will update the Board accordingly.
Board members will seek to keep in Corporate information including the Annual touch with shareholder opinion and to discuss Report and other financial information and strategy and governance issues with them as announcements will be made available on the time progresses.
In addition an investor relations Companys website at www.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 April 2011.
