58 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction to identify potential candidates to A comprehensive review of the and highlights succeed me as Chairman has also executive directors remuneration was I am pleased to introduce the been undertaken.
An induction completed to ensure alignment of the corporate governance statement and training programme has been long-term interests of shareholders which contains details of the activities developed to ensure the successful with those of the executive directors.
of the Board and its committees during integration of the new non-executive The remuneration of the nonthe year ended 31 March 2010.
The directors while maintaining the executive directors was also reviewed.
statement sets out how Experian has continued effectiveness of the Board.
The Board received training and complied with the Combined Code on thorough continued induction in Corporate Governance and also gives The highlights of the year, from a respect of several of Experians US further details of the matters that the governance perspective, included: and Asia Pacific businesses.
Board and its principal committees The appointment of Judith Sprieser considered during the year.
Continued progress has been and Paul Walker as non-executive made in relation to the Boards risk directors was successfully completed It has been a challenging time for management oversight role and, in and an induction and training world economies and the financial recognition of the importance of this programme for both of the new markets and this has focused area, enhancements have been made directors has been developed.
to the regular risk reporting.
Within the context of those continuing The Nomination and Corporate challenges, I am happy to report that Continued compliance with the Governance Committee, under the the Experian plc Board believes that it Combined Code.
chairmanship of Sir Alan Rudge, continues to operate very effectively.
the Senior Independent Director, Shareholder feedback is always undertook a formal process to The year proved to be a busy one in welcome and if you have any particular identify a potential new chairman.
Priorities comments or observations about this The Committee continues to keep this identified by the Board in its annual corporate governance statement, matter under review.
review included matters related to please feel free to email governance@ Board composition and, as a result, experian.
The annual reviews of the Board we have appointed two additional and its principal committees were non-executive directors, following the John Peace successfully completed with positive previous resignations of two nonChairman outcomes overall and no major areas executive directors.
A formal process of concern highlighted.
Compliance statement It is the Boards view that the Company has been compliant with the provisions set down in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in 2008 throughout the year ended 31 March 2010.
This statement, together with the diagram below, explains how the Company has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during the year.
Experians governance framework Advice, review, recommendation Delegated authority flow Board committees and monitoring Board Strategic project committees Audit Committee global and regional Principal subsidiaries Risk management committees executive, regional and global Remuneration Committee operations Executive management team Nomination and Corporate Internal Audit Governance Committee Operating businesses Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 59 Board and committee structure To support the principles of good governance, the Board and its committees operate as described below.
Role of the Board The Board sets Experians strategic goals and ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve the goals.
The Board Appointments of Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker reviews management and financial As one of its primary roles, the Nomination and Corporate Governance performance against those goals.
It Committee keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Board.
is accountable to shareholders for Following previous resignations, it was desirable to appoint additional nondelivering financial performance and executive directors and, in September 2009, the Committee determined that long-term shareholder value.
To achieve the search process should be undertaken in parallel with the search process this, the Board directs and monitors for a new chairman.
At that meeting, the Committee agreed the timeframe for the Groups affairs within a framework the appointment of the new non-executive directors: the attributes and areas of controls which enable risk to be of experience and expertise which would be desirable to supplement existing appraised and managed effectively Board membership: and the identity of the search firm.
At its meetings in through clear and robust procedures November 2009 and January 2010, the Committee received updates on the search and delegated authorities.
process and reviewed the CVs of, and results of meetings held with, shortlisted candidates identified by the chosen search firm.
In March 2010, the Committee Composition recommended to the Board the appointment of Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker The Board currently comprises the as non-executive directors and, at its meeting in March 2010, the Board appointed Chairman, three executive directors, five both with effect from 1 June 2010.
An induction programme has been developed independent non-executive directors, for the new directors and, as provided by the articles of association of the with a further two independent nonCompany, both will retire at the annual general meeting in July 2010 and submit executive directors joining the Board on themselves for election.
The Board considers that its composition is appropriate to oversee the Groups businesses and is suitably diverse in background to address Chairman and The Chief Executive Officers key the challenges of the areas in which Chief Executive Officer responsibilities include running Experian operates.
Biographical details There is a clear separation of the the Groups businesses, proposing of the directors, including details of any roles of the Chairman and the Chief and developing strategy and overall other major directorships, are set out on Executive Officer and the division commercial objectives, which he does pages 52 and 53. of responsibilities between the two in close consultation with the Chairman is clearly established and set out in and the Board, and, with the executive Following Laurence Danons resignation writing.
During the year under review, the team, implementing the decisions of the from the Board at the end of 2009 and the Nomination and Corporate Governance Board, its committees and the principal previously disclosed intention to appoint Committee took the opportunity to subsidiaries.
an additional non-executive director at update and refresh the written division an appropriate time, during the year the of responsibilities to ensure it remained Non-executive directors Nomination and Corporate Governance appropriate and the Board approved the Appointment Committee concluded its search for updated division.
Non-executive directors are initially additional non-executive directors.
This appointed for a term of three years 62 is more fully reported in the Nomination The Chairmans priority is the leadership which may, subject to satisfactory and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board and he is responsible for performance and election re-election by section of this statement and the case ensuring that the Board as a whole the shareholders, be extended by mutual study above.
plays a full and constructive part in the agreement.
The non-executive directors development and determination of the may normally serve a maximum of three Groups strategy and overall commercial terms.
The Chairmans expected maximum commitment to Experian is an average of one to two days per week and his main external interests are set out in 52 his biographical details.
60 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Meetings of non-executive directors authorities delegated throughout the Balance of executive and In addition to their attendance at Board Group by respective Group companies, non-executive directors at 31 March 2010 and committee meetings, the nontogether with the monetary limits of executive directors normally meet as a such delegations.
Included among the group without the executive directors matters that the Board has delegated to present at the end of each scheduled the Groups principal subsidiaries are Board meeting.
At these meetings, the the approval of smaller acquisitions and non-executive directors examine and disposals and the approval of capital and review the performance of the executive revenue expenditure all within defined management.
The matrix is reviewed Chairman directors also meet at least once a year and refreshed regularly and the Board Executive without the Chairman present.
monitors the exercise of delegations to Non-executive the Groups principal subsidiaries which Senior Independent Director are reported to it at each Board meeting.
Length of tenure of directors The Senior Independent Director is at 31 March 2010 Sir Alan Rudge.
In this role, Sir Alan There is an agreed annual calendar of is available to meet shareholders who the main business to be considered at have concerns that cannot be resolved each Board meeting.
For example, as through discussion with the Chairman, well as the other proposals that may be the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief considered at each meeting, the focus is Financial Officer, or where such contact on strategy in January, budgets in March is inappropriate.
No such meeting took and results in May and November.
At place during the year under review.
each Board meeting, the Chief Executive 0-3 years Officer, the Chief Operating Officer 3-4 years Independence and the Chief Financial Officer provide Company incorporated in July 2006 The Board considers each of the operational and financial updates.
current non-executive directors to be Depending on the nature of the proposal Board time usage independent in character and judgment to be considered, senior executives are and also that there are no relationships often invited to make presentations or circumstances which are likely to or participate in Board discussions affect or could appear to affect each to ensure that Board decisions are directors judgment.
supported by a full analysis of each proposal.
Election and re-election All new directors are required by the Key activities of the Board include: Operational and financial performance Companys articles of association M&A Strategy and management to be elected by shareholders at Governance The Board approves and oversees the first annual general meeting Investor relations Experians long-term objectives and Other following appointment.
Subsequently, commercial strategy, ensuring that directors are subject to re-election the necessary financial and human by shareholders every three years.
resources are in place to meet the Each of the directors being proposed objectives.
for re-election at the 2010 annual general meeting has been subject to a Management oversight performance evaluation during the year The Board routinely reviews operating, ended 31 March 2010. financial and risk performance.
Operation of the Board Regulatory statutory activity Governance framework This includes the approval of the The Groups key internal governance Groups results, key documents and the document is its Global Delegated announcement of dividends.
Authorities Matrix, which draws Finance Treasury together the schedule of matters The Board approves the framework reserved to the Board, the terms of for the Groups finance, banking and reference of the Board committees capital structure arrangements.
as well as the authority levels for the Groups principal subsidiaries, directors and senior executives.
For matters not reserved to the Board, the matrix prescribes the cascade of Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 61 The Board and committee meeting respect of their duties, with the Senior Appointments attendance record of each director is Independent Director leading a similar The Board, upon the recommendation shown in the table below.
During the process, including a separate meeting of of the Nomination and Corporate year, the Board met formally on six the non-executive directors, in respect of Governance Committee, approves the occasions and, in addition, received the performance of the Chairman.
a strategy presentation from senior Approval of Group policies management.
The annual evaluation process did not The Board has approved, for example, highlight any areas of material concern a health and safety policy, global Board support and the directors are satisfied that the environmental policy and a global code The Group Corporate Secretariat, Board and its principal committees of conduct.
under the leadership of the Company operate effectively.
In addition, the Secretary, is responsible for providing Chairman has concluded that each Board meetings administrative and logistical support director continues to contribute The Board meets regularly during the to the Board.
The Company Secretary effectively and demonstrates full year and on an ad-hoc basis as required.
also provides advice and support on commitment to his her duties.
Some For each scheduled meeting, the governance and certain compliance specific Board performance highlights directors normally meet over a two or and regulatory matters.
All directors that were noted during the evaluation three day period and Board committee are provided with a regular supply of process included the continuing meetings are also held during the time financial and operational information to effective relationships at Board level the directors are together.
Structuring assist them with the discharge of their and between the Board and senior the Board and committee meetings in duties.
This information is provided on management, the progression of the this way enhances the effectiveness of a monthly basis and Board papers are risk management agenda and the role of the Board and its committees.
At least circulated in time to allow directors to be the Board in contributing to the sound one overseas Board meeting is held properly briefed in advance of meetings.
financial performance, and enhancing each year, which provides management Directors have access to independent the effectiveness, of the Group.
across the Group with the opportunity professional advice at the Companys to present to the Board and meet expense, if considered appropriate.
No Induction and training the directors informally.
During the director obtained any such independent Following appointment, directors year under review, overseas Board professional advice during the year receive an induction programme, meetings were held in Beijing, China ended 31 March 2010. which includes business presentations and Costa Mesa, California.
These from senior management, site visits meetings provided the Board with a Board and director evaluation and receipt of information about such chance to meet, and receive business The performance and effectiveness matters as the operating procedures and presentations from, management in of the Board, each of its principal activities of the Group, the governance those regions and appraise the Groups committees and the directors is structure of the Group, information businesses.
This year, the Board on the duties and responsibilities of and committee evaluation process was directors and information on dealing undertaken internally and reports on the in the Companys shares.
The training findings were presented to the Board process is continued throughout the and its principal committees.
In addition, directors terms of office.
the Chairman evaluated all directors in Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its principal committees Nomination and Corporate Governance Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee John Peace 6 6 5 5 n a n a Don Robert 6 6 5 5 n a n a Paul Brooks 6 6 n a n a n a Chris Callero 5 6 n a n a n a Fabiola Arredondo 5 6 4 5 4 5 3 4 Laurence Danon 3 4 2 3 2 3 2 3 Roger Davis 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 Alan Jebson 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 Sir Alan Rudge 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 David Tyler 6 6 5 5 5 5 4 4 Laurence Danon resigned as a director on 31 December 2009 Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker have been appointed as directors with effect from 1 June 2010 accordingly, their meeting attendance is not reflected above 62 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Examples of how development is Nomination and Corporate Officer, executive directors, such achieved include briefings on Experians Governance Committee report appointments to be made on merit businesses and the environment in and against objective criteria to which those businesses operate.
ensure that the Board maintains its During the year, the Board directors balance of skills, knowledge and received a number of induction and experience.
training sessions including legal and To review legislative, regulatory governance updates, business induction and corporate governance presentations, product demonstrations developments and make appropriate and business updates from relevant recommendations to the Board.
To ensure that the standards John Peace, Conflicts of interest and disclosures required by the Chairman of Nomination and The articles of association of the Combined Code are observed.
Corporate Governance Committee Company allow the Board to authorise conflicts, or potential conflicts, of Governance interest.
The authorisation procedure Members The Committee was in place throughout involves the issue of guidance and The Nomination and Corporate the year ended 31 March 2010.
Five a questionnaire by the Company Governance Committee comprised the members of the Committee as well as Secretary asking directors to identify any following directors during the year: the two new members, Judith Sprieser conflicts or potential conflicts, which and Paul Walker, joining on 1 June are considered by the Board at its next John Peace Chairman 2010 are considered by the Board to be meeting.
Directors are also required Don Robert independent non-executive directors to advise the Company Secretary of Fabiola Arredondo in accordance with provision A.
4.1 of any actual or potential conflicts as Laurence Danon the Combined Code.
In March 2010, the soon as they arise, so that they can be resigned on 31 December 2009 Board approved an expansion of the role considered by the Board at the next Roger Davis of the Committee to include corporate available opportunity.
It is the Boards Alan Jebson governance matters and it was renamed view that the procedure operated Sir Alan Rudge as the Nomination and Corporate effectively during the year under review.
David Tyler Governance Committee to reflect the except in respect of any matter concerning expanded role.
succession to the chairmanship of the Board committees Company when the Senior Independent The principal Board committees are the The Group Human Resources Director Director takes the chair.
Nomination and Corporate Governance and the Global Talent Director attend Committee, the Remuneration certain meetings by invitation.
Meetings Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Committee met five times during the The committees operate within defined Activities year ended 31 March 2010. terms of reference which cover the At its meetings during the year, the authority delegated to them by the Committee agreed a formal process Primary roles Board.
The terms of reference are to identify a potential new chairman To ensure that appropriate available on the Experian website at and monitored and received regular procedures are in place for the www.
com or from the progress updates on the process from nomination, selection, training and Company Secretary upon request.
The the Senior Independent Director.
Company Secretary is secretary to all addition, it also considered the overall three principal committees.
To ensure that adequate succession structure, size and composition of the plans are in place.
Board and its committees taking into Throughout the year, the committee account views expressed in the Board To review the Board structure, chairmen provided the Board with a and committee reviews during the year, size, composition and succession report of the issues considered at the concluded the agreed search process needs, at all times keeping under meetings of the committees and the for new non-executive directors, consideration the balance of minutes of Audit Committee meetings reviewed the time commitment required membership and the required were circulated to the Board.
Reports from non-executive directors and balance of skills, knowledge and of the activities of each of the principal reviewed its own performance and terms experience of the Board.
To identify and nominate, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill vacancies for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 63 The Committee also discussed and Remuneration Committee report Governance reviewed the succession plans for the The Remuneration Committee was Chief Executive Officer and senior in place throughout the year ended management, keeping resources under 31 March 2010.
All of its members review, and evaluated succession are considered by the Board to be plans for all senior positions.
This independent non-executive directors in planning ensures that appropriate accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the leadership resources are in place to Combined Code.
The Chairman and achieve Experians strategic objectives Chief Executive Officer attend meetings and includes strong development by invitation.
They do not attend programmes and cross-regional when their individual remuneration is Roger Davis, development role changes.
discussed and no director is involved in Chairman of Remuneration Committee deciding his or her own remuneration.
59 As illustrated in the case study Other regular attendees include the appearing in this statement, there Members Group Human Resources Director is an established process used to The Remuneration Committee and the Global Head of Reward.
The appoint new non-executive directors comprised the following non-executive Committee meets regularly with its which begins with the Nomination and directors during the year: independent advisers.
All members of Corporate Governance Committee the Committee were provided with an agreeing the scope of the role and Roger Davis Chairman induction in the role of the Committee engaging a specialist search company Fabiola Arredondo and the operation of its terms of to identify potential directors.
The Laurence Danon reference on first appointment.
Committee reviews the short list resigned on 31 December 2009 submitted by the search company and Alan Jebson Activities interviews prospective candidates who Sir Alan Rudge At its meetings during the year, the are, if thought suitable, recommended David Tyler Committee concluded a shareholder to the Board, which makes the consultation exercise in respect of the appointment.
In accordance with the Meetings proposed performance measures, articles of association of the Company, The Committee met five times during the targets and operation of the Companys directors are subject to election at the year ended 31 March 2010. long-term incentive plans, initiated the first annual general meeting following invitation to employees to participate their appointment, and thereafter they Primary roles in the 2009 Sharesave scheme, must seek re-election no more than discussed the 2009 bonus outcome To recommend to the Board three years from the date they were last and the preliminary 2010 bonus targets, Experians senior management elected or re-elected.
agreed to make share plan awards, remuneration policy and that of the reviewed the fee of the Chairman and the Chairman.
During the year, the Committee salaries of the Chief Executive Officer, To determine individual recommended to the Board the the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief remuneration packages for appointment of Judith Sprieser and Paul Operating Officer and a number of executive directors and certain Walker as non-executive directors.
The senior executives and reviewed its own senior executives.
Board approved the recommendations performance and terms of reference.
and Ms Sprieser and Mr Walker have To communicate with shareholders been appointed as directors with effect 68 The report on directors remuneration on remuneration policy.
from 1 June 2010. in the annual report sets out the way in which the Company has applied To review and recommend to the corporate governance principles to Board the design of the Groups directors remuneration.
short and long-term incentive plans.
To oversee the Groups executive pension arrangements.
64 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance statement continued Audit Committee report Governance Assessed the resources, The Audit Committee was in place organisational structure and throughout the year ended 31 March operational effectiveness of the 2010.
All members of the Committee internal audit function, together are considered by the Board to be with managements response independent non-executive directors to the findings, and evaluated in compliance with provision C. 3.1 of the performance of the internal the Combined Code.
The Chairman audit function, confirming that it and the executive directors attend continued to perform effectively.
Other regular Reviewed a variety of reports attendees include the Global Executive on risk, as more fully described Alan Jebson, Vice President Legal and Regulatory 65 in the internal control and risk Chairman of Audit Committee Risk and the Head of Global Internal management section of this Audit.
The lead audit partner from statement.
Members  LLP The Audit Committee comprised the also attends all meetings.
Other Reviewed the effectiveness of the following non-executive directors during  staff are Groups system of internal control, the year: invited to attend meetings where their including financial, operational, particular expertise can be utilised.
At compliance and risk management on Alan Jebson Chairman each meeting, the Committee meets an ongoing basis.
Fabiola Arredondo with the external auditors and the Laurence Danon Head of Global Internal Audit without Made a recommendation to the resigned on 31 December 2009 management present.
Board for shareholder approval in Roger Davis relation to the re-appointment of the Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler, a committee member, external auditors and considered David Tyler provides recent and relevant financial their engagement terms.
experience and also provides an inReviewed other services provided by Meetings depth knowledge of Experians business.
the external auditors, evaluated their The Committee met four times during The Board is confident that the collective performance and monitored their the year ended 31 March 2010, with international business experience of independence, concluding that they meetings held to coincide with key dates the Committee members enables them had maintained their independence in the financial reporting and audit cycle.
to act as an effective committee.
The throughout the year ended 31 March Committee has access to the financial 2010.
Primary roles expertise within the Group and the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit To monitor the integrity of the Reviewed and recommended to the Committee is in regular contact with key financial statements.
Board the treasury policy of the members of senior management.
To review the effectiveness of the system of internal control including Activities Evaluated its own performance the risk management systems.
The activities of the Audit Committee and concluded that its terms of during the year ended 31 March 2010 reference remained appropriate.
To review the effectiveness of the included the following: audit process and the independence and objectivity of the external Reviewed the 2009 preliminary and auditors.
half-year results announcements and the 2009 annual report and To monitor and review the accounts.
effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Assessed critical policies and practices and management and To develop and implement policy on accounting judgments.
non-audit services to be provided by the external auditors.
Reviewed the control of financial and business risks, the nature and To approve the remuneration scope of the work performed by and terms of engagement of internal and external auditors, the the external auditors and make results of this audit work and the recommendations in relation to their responses of management.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 65 External auditors Taxation services: where the external The Board confirms that there is  LLP have auditors knowledge of the Groups an ongoing process for identifying, been the Companys auditors since affairs may provide significant assessing and mitigating the significant demerger in October 2006.
The advantages which other parties would risks faced by the Group, including Audit Committee considers that the not have.
Where this is not the case, the those risks relating to social, ethical relationship with the auditors is working work is put out to tender.
Further well and remains satisfied with their details on this process can be found effectiveness.
Accordingly, to date General: in other circumstances, the 34 in the risks and uncertainties section the Committee has not considered it external auditors may provide services of the business review section of the necessary to require the auditors to provided that proposed assignments annual report.
The process was in place tender for the audit work.
There are no are put out to tender and decisions to throughout the year under review and contractual obligations restricting the award work are taken on the basis of up to the date of approval of the annual Companys choice of external auditor.
demonstrable competence and cost report and meets the requirements effectiveness.
However, the external of the Combined Code.
For certain  provide a auditors are specifically prohibited from joint arrangements, the Board places range of other services to Experian performing work related to accounting reliance upon the systems of internal and, to ensure auditor objectivity and records and financial statements that control operating within the partners independence, a policy has been will ultimately be subject to external infrastructure and the obligations adopted by the Company in relation audit: management of or significant upon partners boards relating to the to the provision of such services.
The involvement in internal audit services: effectiveness of their own systems.
In the policy includes financial limits above any work that could compromise the Boards view, the information it received which the Chairman of the Audit independence of the external auditors: was sufficient to enable it to review the Committee must pre-approve any and any other work that is prohibited by effectiveness of the Groups system of proposed non-audit services.
The Audit UK ethical guidance.
internal control in accordance with the Committee receives half-yearly reports Internal Control Revised Guidance for containing details of assignments In addition to the policy summarised Directors contained in the Combined carried out by the external auditors in above, the external auditors maintain Code.
The Audit Committee, under addition to their normal work, together safeguards to ensure the objectivity and delegated authority from the Board, has with details of related fees.
The payment independence of their service teams.
kept the effectiveness of the system of of non-audit fees to the Companys The safeguards include the rotation internal control under review and reports auditors is capped at 100% of fees for of the lead audit engagement partner regularly to the Board.
audit and assurance services, except in and the use of separate teams, where exceptional circumstances, and details appropriate.
The principal features of the control of all fees paid to the external auditors framework and the methods by which the for the year ended 31 March 2010 are Internal control and Board satisfies itself that it is operating 111 set out in note 8 to the Group financial risk management effectively are detailed below.
The policy in relation to the One of the requirements of the provision of non-audit services can be Combined Code is that the Board, Risk assessment summarised as follows.
annually, reviews and reports to There is an ongoing process in place for shareholders on the effectiveness of the anticipating, identifying, assessing and Provided that the provision of such Groups system of internal control the mitigating the significant risks faced by services does not conflict with review is required to include financial, the Group.
The process has operated the external auditors statutory operational and compliance controls throughout the year under review and responsibilities and ethical guidance, and risk management systems.
up to the date of approval of the annual the following types of services may be report.
assigned to the external auditors: The Board acknowledges that it has overall responsibility for maintaining The Groups risk management and Further assurance services: where the system of internal control and governance framework is designed to the external auditors deep knowledge for reviewing its effectiveness: while support the anticipation, identification, of the Groups affairs means that they management is responsible for the assessment and mitigation of risks that may be best placed to carry out such execution of the internal control system.
are significant to the achievement of work.
This may include, but is not The Groups system of internal control the Groups business objectives.
There restricted to, shareholder and other is designed to manage rather than is a global risk management policy in circulars, regulatory reports and work eliminate the risk of failure to achieve place which governs the management in connection with acquisitions and business objectives and can provide and control of both financial and nondivestments.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance financial risks.
The policy describes the against material financial misstatement global risk framework and defines risk or loss.
management principles and expectations 66 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance statement continued regarding management of risk across Committees attention to enable a more Principles, policies and standards to the Group: this enables a consistent detailed consideration.
During the be adhered to throughout the business.
approach to the management of risk at year, the Audit Committee received a These include risk management policy, regional and business unit level.
presentation on IT technology risk which accounting policies, treasury policy, dealt with the current global environment, information security policy and policy on Management monitors the Groups risk Experians major IT platforms, fraud and whistleblowing.
profile on an ongoing basis.
Regional risk governance, controls and risk issues.
Defined review and approval procedures committees oversee the management of for major transactions, capital regional risks consistent with Experians On a monthly basis, the achievement expenditure and revenue expenditure.
risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
of business objectives, both financial Global operational related risks, and non-financial, is assessed using a Regional and global strategic project including technology and project risks, range of performance indicators.
These committees comprised of senior are monitored by a newly formed global indicators are regularly reviewed to executives responsible for reviewing operations risk management committee.
ensure they remain relevant and reliable.
and evaluating all significant business This committee was established in In addition, the global risk management investments, developments and the fourth quarter of the year under policy provides for the ongoing divestments, prior to submission of review and oversees the management identification and escalation of new and relevant cases for the approval of the of operational related risks associated emerging risks to management and the Board or relevant principal operating with the Groups shared service and Board as appropriate.
subsidiary depending on the size of data centres as well as global product the investment risk assessment is an development and delivery activities.
There are fraud and whistleblowing integral component of the evaluation The regional and global operations procedures in place in the Group process.
risk committees review summary risk for employees to report suspected assessments and internal audit results, improprieties and the Audit Committee Appropriate strategies to deal with each evaluate significant exposures, make receives regular reports on this area significant risk that has been identified, mitigation decisions and enforce from the Head of Global Internal Audit.
including internal controls, insurance mitigation progress, monitor changes in and specialised treasury instruments.
the regional operational risk profile and Monitoring escalate significant risks and issues to an The Group has a well-developed system Information and communication executive risk management committee.
of planning, incorporating Board The Board, as part of the comprehensive approval of Group strategy and budgets.
system of budgetary control in the Group, The primary responsibility of the Performance against the agreed plan is receives a monthly finance report, which executive risk management committee, subsequently monitored and reported to includes a Group financial summary, which is comprised of senior Group the Board each time it meets.
Group results, forecasts and sales trends executives, is to oversee the management and an investor relations analysis.
The regional, global The Audit Committee has delegated report also includes detailed business operations and executive risk committees responsibility from the Board for the trading summaries and provides the operate to a synchronised quarterly cycle annual review of the effectiveness of Board with information required for as part of an enterprise risk management the Groups system of internal control decision-making and management process this ensures relevant risk and receives an annual report on the review purposes.
More detailed monthly information flows from the regional and controls over relevant risks including performance reviews take place at a global operations risk committees to the risks arising from social, ethical and regional level.
executive risk management committee environmental matters.
The Committee and from the executive risk management also reviews a variety of reports on risk, The Audit Committee receives global committee to the Board and or Audit including material risk reports, material risk management reports during the Committee, as appropriate.
litigation reports, information security year which are generated through the reports and regulatory and compliance facilitated, quarterly contribution of Control environment reports.
managers in each area of Experians The Group has an established business: including facilitated framework, which includes the following Each business unit is responsible for contributions from key governance key features: the day-to-day management of risk and functions such as Information Security, for ensuring that risk exposure remains Business Continuity, Legal, Government Terms of reference for the Board and within established limits.
The global Affairs, Compliance, Finance, Group each of its committees.
risk management policy outlines, for Corporate Secretariat, Internal Audit business units, the expectations in and Technology Services.
All risk A clear organisational structure, relation to escalation of identified risks, assessment information is consistently with well documented delegation of control weaknesses or gaps.
In addition, captured and centrally held in a series authority from the Board to principal certificates are provided annually by of risk registers.
Any risks inherent subsidiaries and regular reporting to the each business unit and key function to in material litigation cases are also Board in respect of the exercise of the confirm compliance with the Groups specifically drawn to the Audit delegations.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Governance 67 system of internal control, Group with major institutional shareholders annual general meeting and the policies, and corporate governance and in 2009 regarding the proposed Company receives numerous questions corporate responsibility processes.
performance measures, targets and from private shareholders using operation of the Companys executive the card.
The Company Secretary The Groups internal audit function long-term incentive arrangements going ensures that the Company responds to provides independent testing and forward.
shareholders directly, as appropriate, at verification of risk management policies, or following the annual general meeting.
processes and practices across There is also an ongoing programme the Group and reports to the Audit of dialogue and meetings between The annual general meeting is Committee on the effectiveness of the the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief an important event in Experians system of internal control.
The internal Financial Officer and institutional corporate calendar and provides a audit programme and methodology is investors and analysts.
At these valuable opportunity for the Board to aligned to the risk categories and risk meetings a wide range of relevant communicate with shareholders and assessment parameters established by issues including strategy, performance, meet with them on an informal basis the global risk management function management and governance are before the main business of the meeting.
and makes use of risk assessment discussed within the constraints of All directors, including the chairmen of information at a business level in information already made public.
The the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination planning and conducting its audits.
announcement of the annual and and Corporate Governance committees, half-year results, interim management attend the annual general meeting.
Engagement with statements and trading updates shareholders and others provide opportunities for the Company Experians 2010 annual general meeting The Company places considerable to answer questions from analysts will take place on Wednesday 21 July importance on communication and covering a wide range of topics.
2010 and shareholders are encouraged maintaining good relationships with to attend the meeting and use the shareholders and makes every effort The Companys website is a very opportunity to ask questions.
However, to ensure that shareholders are important method of communication given the size and geographical diversity kept informed of significant Group with shareholders and all material of the Companys shareholder base, developments.
information reported to the regulatory attendance may not always be practical news services, together with copies of and shareholders are encouraged to To assist members of the Board to annual and half-year results, interim use proxy voting on the resolutions put gain an understanding of the views of management statements and trading forward.
Every vote cast, whether in institutional shareholders, at each of its updates, is published on the Companys person or by proxy, is counted, because meetings the Board receives an investor website so that all shareholders can votes on all matters except procedural relations and media report, which covers have full access promptly to Company issues are taken by a poll.
a wide range of matters including a announcements.
commentary on the perception of the In line with the Combined Code, Company and views expressed by the The Board is also committed to details of proxy voting by shareholders, investment community, media reports, ensuring that any concerns of private including votes withheld, are made share price performance and analysis.
shareholders are dealt with and, on available on request and placed on In addition, the Board consults with its behalf, the Company Secretary the Companys website following the shareholders in connection with specific oversees communication with meeting.
In 2009, voting levels at the issues where it considers appropriate.
A Shareholder annual general meeting showed an For example, the Chairman of the Questions card is issued with the increase to 63% of the issued share Remuneration Committee consulted shareholder documentation for the capital of the Company, compared with 56% in 2008.
Experian website Additional information relevant to corporate governance at Experian can be found on the Experian website at www.
There you will find: Terms of reference of the principal Board committees The schedule of matters reserved to the Board The memorandum and articles of association of the Company Details of annual general meeting proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld Contact details for any questions
