Corporate Governance The Board continues to be committed to the principles of good corporate governance and believes that high governance standards are integral to the conduct of the business.
This report explains how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code as revised in 2008.
A copy of the Combined Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council or online at www.
Compliance The Group has complied with the provisions and the spirit of the Combined Code during the year ended 31 August 2010 and this statement explains how the Principles of Corporate Governance are applied within the Group.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business Review in the Directors Report and the Board Remuneration Report on pages 4 to 15 and pages 31 to 37 respectively.
The Board is reviewing the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to financial years from 1 September 2010 and will report on it in the Annual Report in 2011.
The information required under Rule 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority is included in the Directors Report on pages 16 to 19.
The Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are and will remain separate and distinct from one another in accordance with best practice.
The Board is satisfied that it has met the Combined Codes requirements for its effective operation.
Specific matters are reserved for the Boards consideration under a formal schedule.
These include developing Group strategy, reviewing trading performance, considering senior management appointments, formulating policy on key issues including the approval of significant capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and reporting to shareholders.
The schedule is reviewed at least annually.
Various other matters are delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board consisting of directors and senior executives.
Details of their composition and purpose are outlined below.
In addition, the Chairman and non-executive directors meet several times a year without the executive directors being present.
The Group holds appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Re-electing directors All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Colin Cooke will seek re-election in accordance with best practice but will retire from the Board as and when Mark Abrahams takes up the role of non-executive Chairman on 1 March 2011.
It is noted that the UK Corporate Governance Code requires annual re-election of all board members once the Code is implemented.
Board balance and independence As at 31 August 2010, the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, two executive directors and three non-executive directors and is collectively responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 20.
The appointment of John Sheldrick with effect from 1 September 2010 brings the number of non-executive directors to four until the AGM in January 2011 when David Buttfield will retire from the Board.
The Board is satisfied that the balance of skills and experience is appropriate for the requirements of the business.
The majority of the Board comprises non-executive directors, inclusive of the Chairman, and they are deemed by the Board to be independent of management and do not have any business relationships which could interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
Alan Wood and John Sheldrick bring a wealth of industrial and international experience to the Board, enhancing what is already a very proficient and knowledgable Board.
It is recognised that the appointment of Mark Abrahams as non-executive Chairman diverges from the Combined Codes recommended practice.
However, following shareholder consultation which had a positive and supportive outcome, the Board believe Marks continued contribution, knowledge and experience of the Group and its markets will benefit the Group and its shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is David Buttfield, to whom shareholders have access throughout the year should they need or request it.
David Campbell will become the Senior Independent Director upon the retirement of David Buttfield.
Information and professional development Prior to each Board, Committee or General Meeting, the Board is provided with timely, appropriate and sufficient information to enable it to discharge its duties proficiently.
The Board also receives appropriate documentation, financial information, regulatory updates and briefing notes on a regular basis to ensure it is kept fully informed and up to date.
On joining the Board, non-executive directors receive an induction to the Group and its operations.
They are also encouraged to visit the Groups offices and factories whenever the opportunity presents itself, where they meet management and are briefed on local business operations.
At least one Board meeting during the year is held at an operational site outside of the UK.
In the year under review, the Board visited four of the Groups operations in the US where they received presentations from the management teams and toured the various plants.
F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 2 1 Corporate Governance continued All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Group complies with all applicable rules, regulations and obligations governing its operations.
A procedure exists for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Groups expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Performance evaluation A Board performance evaluation was carried out in the year and was conducted internally via a questionnaire.
The review looked at Board responsibilities, duties, strategy, information flows, monitoring, Board structure including succession planning and the effectiveness of the whole Board and its committees.
The performance of the Chairman was also evaluated by the Senior Independent Director after a review with the other members of the Board.
The Chairman evaluated the performance of the individual directors as part of the review.
It was concluded that the composition, experience and effectiveness of the Board was appropriate and robust, particularly so with the appointment of the two new non-executive directors, and no significant issues were raised during the evaluation.
Conflicts The statutory duties for directors relating to conflicts of interest are set out in the Companies Act 2006.
No conflicts arose during the year and the Board continues to monitor events with a view to ensuring any conflicts are handled appropriately.
Audit Committee David Buttfield is Chairman of the Audit Committee and has recent and relevant financial experience.
During the year, other members of the Committee were David Campbell and Alan Wood with effect from 1 April 2010.
John Sheldrick joined the Committee on appointment to the Board on 1 September 2010 and will take over as Chairman of the Committee upon the retirement of David Buttfield at the next AGM in January 2011.
The Company Secretary acts as a secretary to the Committee.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary as well as access to external professional advice.
The Committee can request the attendance at meetings of any director, external auditor, internal auditor or Group employee as considered appropriate and the internal auditors have right of access to the Committee.
The Committee also meets external auditors without the executive directors being present.
The principal duties of the Committee are to review the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting and internal control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment, reporting and management of risks and to consider all aspects of the relationship with the external auditors.
The work of the Audit Committee During the year, the Committee carried out the following work: - review, prior to Board approval, of the Preliminary Results, the Half Year Results, the Annual Report and the Half Yearly Financial Report: - consideration of the Groups key business risks, including the arrangements for the identification and management of risk and systems for reporting risk management: - overseeing the Group-wide risk management system: - receive the reports on internal control and review the effectiveness of the internal control function and arrangements including approval of the internal control programme and review visits, monitor progress and evaluate the internal control reports at least twice a year, including a meeting with the Head of Internal Control: - consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the auditors: - meet with the external auditors, both with and without the executive management being present, to discuss audit issues and review and approve the audit plan: - approve the external auditors' terms of engagement and associated fees: - monitor the level of non-audit work of the external auditors: - review the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Whistleblowing Policy and Ethics Policy: - review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud: - review the financial statements of the UK Fenner Pension Scheme: and - review the Groups treasury policy No non-routine matters of concern were drawn to the Committees attention by either the external or internal auditors during the year.
Matters of material concern are immediately drawn to the Committees attention if and when they arise.
There is a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Certain services such as due diligence in relation to acquisitions and disposals, taxation services and actuarial advice are permitted but others, for example, internal audit, information technology and HR consultancy are generally considered inappropriate.
Non-audit fees are reported to the Committee.
The Committee has received and reviewed written confirmation from the external auditors on all relationships that, in their judgement, may bear on their independence.
The external auditors have also confirmed that they consider themselves independent within the meaning of UK regulatory and professional requirements.
2 2 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 The Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and concluded that this was satisfactory.
The Committee will continue to periodically review the performance of  LLP.
The Committee monitored the external audit firms compliance with applicable ethical guidance and, in addition, considered the independence and the objectivity of the external auditors taking due account of all appropriate guidelines.
The risk of  LLP leaving the market is considered remote since they are one of the top four global accounting firms.
Audit Committee and internal control The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and receives a report on internal control at least twice a year.
This review covers all controls including operational, financial, compliance and risk management.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the recommendations of the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system and arrangements.
During the period under review, no significant changes to the material risks were identified and no control failings or weaknesses were identified that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control which, like any system of internal control, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key procedures within the control structure are: - the identification of major business and insurance risks faced by the Groups operations, by both the Board and senior management, and the determination of the most appropriate course of action to deal with these risks: - central review and approval procedures in respect of major areas of risk such as acquisitions and disposals, litigation, treasury management, taxation and environmental issues: - a clear management structure with well defined lines of responsibility and the appropriate levels of delegation: - regular review of the Groups business units by operational and executive management and monthly reports from the senior Managing Directors: - a structured process for appraising and authorising capital projects, which includes clearly defined authorisation levels: projects are subject to post-investment appraisals: - well established consolidation and reporting systems for both the statutory and monthly management accounts: monthly, half yearly and annual financial results are prepared by the consolidation team and reviewed by management, with financial reports distributed to all Board members: - comprehensive budgeting systems with an annual budget approved by the Board: monthly results are reported against budget and revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly: - an internal programme of monitoring visits by the internal audit team, as agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews the compliance of each business unit with the Group's standard internal financial control procedures: - competition compliance programmes are in place in several jurisdictions and the Group-wide Whistleblowing Policy continues to be applied and work is underway to introduce a Code of Business Conduct as well as a policy on bribery ahead of the UK Bribery Act coming into force in 2011: and - a programme of business risk reviews with operational management focusing on non-financial controls and risk management.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Alan Wood joined the Committee on appointment to the Board on 1 April 2010 and John Sheldrick joined the Committee on appointment to the Board on 1 September 2010.
David Campbell chairs the Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer also attends the meetings by invitation but does not participate in any decision in relation to his own remuneration.
The Committee has the power to request the attendance at meetings of any director or Group employee as considered appropriate.
The Committee is responsible to the Board for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and other senior executives and advises on executive remuneration policy issues as well as reviewing the appropriateness of the remuneration policy.
The Committee administers the long-term Performance Share Plan PSP.
It also approves the granting to certain employees of a long-term Shadow Performance Share Plan which is a cash incentive scheme with performance aligned to the PSP.
The Remuneration Committee received advice during the year from Hewitt New Bridge Street Consultants LLP and Mercer Limited in relation to director and senior executive remuneration and the PSP.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the non-executive directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and generally meets at least annually and or as required.
Terms of reference set out the Committees role and duties which include reviewing the composition of the Board, having responsibility for the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies and considering succession planning for all Board positions and senior executives.
F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 2 3 Corporate Governance continued Candidates for appointment to the Board are considered by the Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
During the year, the Committee received advice from Hanson Green and Odgers Berndtson in relation to the recruitment of Alan Wood and John Sheldrick.
Shareholders were consulted in respect of the appointments of Mark Abrahams as non-executive Chairman and Nick Hobson as Chief Executive Officer from 1 March 2011.
Neither Colin Cooke nor Mark Abrahams participated in Nomination Committee meetings where the Chairmans succession was discussed.
Meetings of the Board The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings during the year 6 3 2 5 Chairman C I Cooke 6 3 2 5 Executive directors M S Abrahams 6 3 2 4 R J Perry 6 3 0 4 Non-executive directors D F Buttfield 5 2 2 5 D A Campbell 6 3 2 4 A J Wood appointed 1 April 2010 3 2 1 1 J Sheldrick joined the Company on 1 September 2010 and therefore did not attend any meetings of the Board or Committees in the year under review.
By invitation Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are reviewed at least annually and are available to view on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request to the Company Secretary.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two executive directors, the Company Secretary and six members of the Groups senior management including senior executives from the operations.
The Executive Committee meets at least six times a year and deals with the daily management of the Group through powers delegated to it by the Board.
Directors' remuneration Policy and procedure are set out in the Board Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 37.
Relations with shareholders The Company encourages regular dialogue with its institutional shareholders, private client brokers and also with private investors at the AGM.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director hold update meetings with institutional shareholders and private client brokers following the announcement of the Preliminary Results and the Half Year Results and as requested throughout the year.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and attend if requested.
The Board is provided with broker reports and feedback from shareholder meetings on a regular basis.
The Groups website provides comprehensive investor relations information for shareholders to view.
The website includes analyst presentations, the current share price, regulatory announcements, financial performance information, shareholder information and an investor relations contact address.
Annual General Meeting In relation to the Companys AGM: - proxy forms allow for voting either for a resolution, against a resolution or for a vote to be withheld: - a separate resolution is proposed for each substantially separate issue, including the receipt of the Annual Report: - the proxy count in respect of each resolution is announced after it has been dealt with on a show of hands: - all executive and non-executive Board members normally attend the meeting: - the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report and any other related papers are normally sent to shareholders more than one month before the meeting: and 2 4 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 - shareholders are invited to ask questions during the AGM and have an opportunity to meet the Board directors before and after the formal meeting.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: - select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: - make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: - state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: and - prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Board Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in The Board on page 20 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: - the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and - the Business Review contained on pages 4 to 15 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
