Ferrexpo plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report Introduction Director.
The other Non-executive Directors are Lucio Genovese, The past year has seen the continued review by the regulatory Wolfram Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov and Mike Salamon.
Marek Jelinek authorities of governance standards and practices set in train by the retired from the Board on 27 May 2010. financial crises of 2008: a number of key themes have come out of these reviews including the continued focus on risk and executive Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set remuneration.
The Ferrexpo Board remains committed to good out on pages 44 and 45 together with details of their membership of corporate governance practices, in its management of the affairs of Board committees.
A summary of the roles of the Chairman, the the Group and in its accountability to shareholders, and keeps under Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Independent Director is review the Groups own policies and procedures in these areas.
detailed in this report, the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, the Group has The structure and business of the Board are designed to ensure that implemented an effective corporate governance framework and has the Board focuses its attention on strategy, management, established Board committees, internal procedures and Group governance and control issues.
The Board has a formal schedule of policies which are considered vital for the proper management of the matters which sets out those matters requiring Board approval and Group and good governance of Ferrexpo as an international specifically reserved to it for decision.
The Board is responsible for business.
As an English incorporated company with a primary listing setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing effective on the London Stock Exchange the Company, in respect of the 2010 leadership and control required for a public company and for financial year, is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate approving the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major Governance issued in June 2008 the Combined Code.
It also monitors financial performance and critical Combined Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils business issues.
Major project approvals, contract awards and key website, www.
The Board and management of the Group policies and procedures also require the approval of the Board.
have a policy of conducting all business affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining high ethical standards in Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated dealings with all relevant parties.
to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the Companies Act 2006, FSA Listing Rules and the Combined Code.
It is the The Company has also reviewed the requirements of the 2010 UK responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer and the Executive Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code, which applies to the Committee to manage the day-to-day running of the Group.
The Company with effect from the 2011 financial year, and will report on Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets compliance in the annual report for 2011.
The Board has decided that approximately monthly.
All of the information that is submitted to all of the Directors should stand for re-election at the AGM in 2011 the Board by management is reviewed and approved by the and in future years, as recommended by the 2010 Code.
Information pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The company has provided the additional information required by the Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
7 of the UK Listing Authority followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board on Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights and governance issues.
rights regarding control of the company in the Directors Report and the Remuneration Report.
Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
Statement of compliance During the year to 31 December 2010 the Company complied with The Board met five times during the reporting period.
Attendance by the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
Directors at Board meetings and Board committee meetings is shown on page 48.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
The Combined Code establishes principles of good governance in four areas: Directors, Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, and Chairman, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Senior Relations with Shareholders.
The following three sections explain Independent Director how these principles were applied, with the exception of those The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals.
relating to Directors remuneration which are included in the The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO has Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 58. been clearly established in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement which The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the Financial its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective Services Authority.
The Chairman also ensures that there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and Directors Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds The Board meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive The Board is composed of a Non-executive Chairman: Michael Directors present.
Abrahams: two Executive Directors: Kostyantin Zhevago, Chief Executive Officer, and Christopher Mawe, Chief Financial Officer: and The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the five Non-executive Directors.
Oliver Baring is the Senior Independent biographical notes on pages 44 and 45.
There has been no increase in those commitments during the reporting period.
Ferrexpo plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, Conflicts of interest to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to oversee A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest and and implement Board-approved actions.
Details of Mr Zhevagos the recording, reporting and, where appropriate, approval of related other appointments are set out in the biographical notes on party transactions and review of relevant disclosures.
This procedure pages 44 and 45. is in line with published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction with 2006 on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in potential conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled communications with shareholders concerning corporate based on disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated and governance matters if that is required.
He also chairs the Nominations reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the Committee and the Committee of Independent Directors.
At least Executive Related Party Matters Committee ERPMC and the once a year, the Senior Independent Director meets the NonCommittee of Independent Directors CID.
Any changes to the executive Directors, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the schedules are noted at the beginning of the next Board meeting.
Committee of Independent Directors has delegated authority to carefully consider and if deemed appropriate in the circumstances Board balance and independence approve conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board.
This procedure The Board considers that its membership of two Executive Directors, operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow emerging a Non-executive Chairman and five Non-executive Directors, four of best practice in this area.
whom are deemed by the Board to be independent, is of an appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an effective The Board has established a Committee of Independent Directors to and successful manner.
It also considers that no single Director can consider and, if appropriate, approve related party transactions and influence or dominate decision making.
The Relationship Agreement conflicts of interests to the extent foreseen within Chapter 11 of the with Kostyantin Zhevago specifically deals with decision making.
Listing Rules whether in relation to Mr Zhevago or any other Director, More details are given below.
and to consider any matters referred to it concerning the operation of the Relationship Agreement and ensure that decisions are taken The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on objectively in the Companys interest.
independence of Non-executive Directors under the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing Non-executive Appointments to the Board and re-election Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Under its terms of reference the Nominations Committee is Board and to the Board committees on which they sit.
The Board responsible for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
considers that, with the exception of Mr Salamon who represents a The process for election and re-election of Directors under the significant shareholder, all of the Non-executive Directors as at the Companys Articles of Association is set out in the Directors Report date of this report are independent of the Group within the terms of on pages 59 to 62. provision A.
Information and professional development In 2009, as part of the annual process of performance evaluation see Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration in below, the Board reviewed the amount of time needed by the advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Groups Non-executive Directors to perform their duties, and recognised that operations to ensure that they are up to date on the latest Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni were required to devote more developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
These time to their duties as Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo AG than notes and reports take into account the factors set out in section 172 had been expected at the time of their appointment.
The Board of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success therefore increased their remuneration with effect from 1 January of the Company, which are considered by the Executive Committee 2009 as set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 58.
In when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
reaching this decision the Board also concluded, in the light of the Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the supervisory and non-executive nature of their duties as directors of Directors statutory duty to promote the success of the Company for Ferrexpo AG, that both Mr Genovese and Mr Kuoni remained the benefit of its members as a whole.
independent in character and judgement, as defined by provision A.
Professional development and training are provided in a number of ways including updates given to the Board on changes and Mr Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns 100% proposed changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group.
Site of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the Group.
visits to ensure Directors are familiar with the Groups operations are Consequently he and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have entered into a held at least annually, and Directors may visit the operations of the Relationship Agreement with the Company to ensure that the Group Group independently to the extent that they feel this is necessary.
is capable of carrying on its business independently, that transactions During the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and visiting the site in Ukraine.
Mr Zhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
Ferrexpo plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued All Directors may take independent professional advice at the Audit Committee expense of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
On Four Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
appointment, all Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities Attendance and liabilities as a Director of a public listed company.
In addition an Committee members record appropriate induction programme is provided to a Director on Wolfram Kuoni Chairman 4 4 appointment taking into consideration the individual qualifications and Lucio Genovese 4 4 experience of the Director.
Ihor Mitiukov 4 4 Performance evaluation A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and Remuneration Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet Committees has been conducted by the chairmen of these bodies.
at least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the This is done by the chairman of the relevant body interviewing his reporting and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of colleagues and then discussing his findings with the body as a whole.
the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim The conclusion of the evaluation process was that the Board as a reports, interim management statements, preliminary results whole and its committees had functioned effectively during the year.
announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its The mix of skills and experience on the Board was felt to be financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting issues appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Nonand judgements which they contain.
The Audit Committee is also executive Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the responsible for reviewing internal controls and risk management performance of the Chairman.
systems, whistleblowing procedures and internal audit processes, and oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
Board committees The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain Remuneration Committee Directors, and in the case of the Executive Committee and Corporate Five Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee, certain senior Attendance managers, to which specific responsibilities have been delegated and Committee members record for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
The terms of Lucio Genovese Chairman 5 5 reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CSR Michael Abrahams 5 5 Committees are available for inspection on the Groups website at Ihor Mitiukov 5 5 www.
Membership of the various committees, Oliver Baring 5 5 including the Chairman of each committee, is shown below.
The Board periodically reviews the membership of its committees to The Remuneration Committee meets as required and is responsible ensure that committee membership is refreshed.
The Group provides for reviewing and approving all aspects of remuneration for the the committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
including access to the Company Secretary.
Further details concerning the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 58.
The table of attendance of members of the Board and its principal committees at meetings during the financial period together with a Nominations Committee summary of the terms of reference are set out below.
One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
Attendance Board Committee members record Five Board meetings were held during the year.
Oliver Baring Chairman 1 1 Attendance Michael Abrahams 1 1 Board members record Wolfram Kuoni 1 1 Michael Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 5 5 Ihor Mitiukov 1 1 Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 5 5 Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 Chris Mawe Chief Financial Officer 5 5 Oliver Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Nominations Committee Report Lucio Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 The Nominations Committee meets as required.
The role of the Wolfram Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Nominations Committee is to identify and nominate, for the approval Ihor Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 of the Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies, having due regard to 1 Marek Jelinek Non-executive Director 3 3 the need for appropriate balance and diversity on the Board.
The Mike Salamon Non-executive Director 5 5 Committee consults regularly with the Board while filling vacancies.
The Executive Directors and Chairman also assist in identifying the 1 Left the Board on 27 May 2010. scope and required skills for the vacant role.
The Committee also gives consideration to succession planning at the Board and senior executive levels, including the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Following a review of succession planning in 2010, a Group Chief Operating Officer was appointed in January 2011.
Ferrexpo plc 49 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee Audit Committee Report One Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee The Combined Code recommends that all members of the Audit meeting was held during the year.
Committee are independent Non-executive Directors, and that at least one member should have recent and relevant financial Attendance experience.
All members of the Audit Committee are considered to Committee members record possess appropriate knowledge and skills.
Wolfram Kuoni, an Viktor Lotous Chairman 1 1 independent Non-executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Michael Abrahams 1 1 Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee and Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 attendance by members at its meetings are outlined on page 48.
During the reporting period the Audit Committee met four times and The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the carried out the following activities: Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social responsibility Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditors, the issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In particular it focuses annual and interim financial statements and associated on ensuring that effective systems and standards, procedures and documents and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that all practices are in place in the Group.
The CSR Committee is material information was properly and clearly disclosed.
responsible in conjunction with the Executive Committee for Reviewed with Ernst & Young LLP the scope of the audit work reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents that proposed for 2010 and audit fees.
occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Reviewed the risk matrix at each meeting, and discussed with the Further details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee Head of Internal Audit the internal audit plan for 201012 and the are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on findings of the internal audit reviews conducted during the year.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors, their independence and the non-audit services they provided.
Committee of Independent Directors The Committee of Independent Directors CID is composed of the A statement on the Boards position regarding the Group as a going Senior Independent Director Oliver Baring, the Chairman of the concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 62.
Board, and the three other Independent Directors.
The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises on behalf of the Board Internal control related party transactions within the terms of Chapter 11 of the Listing The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal Rules of the Financial Services Authority and otherwise ensures control, which includes risk management and reviewing its compliance with Chapter 11 and with the Relationship Agreement effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Mr Zhevago, The Minco evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the Trust and the Company.
The CID holds delegated authority to achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations consider and, if appropriate, authorise conflicts of interest of any inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to member of the Board under the relevant section of the Companies meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is Act 2006.
The CID met five times during the year.
exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material The Executive Committee misstatement or loss.
The Executive Committee is the main decision making body of the Group.
Its members are detailed on page 45.
It is responsible for The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the managing and taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The Audit from those that are reserved for the entire Board, such as approving Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The day-tothe Groups strategy, annual and long term capital expenditure plans day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the and budget.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the in the United Kingdom.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Executive Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed Committee to ensure its duties are at all times set in the context of regularly by the Executive Committee.
the requirements of the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Executive Committee the On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established a responsibility for the execution of Board approved strategies for the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks Group, ensuring appropriate levels of authority are delegated to faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This senior management, the review of organisational structures and the process was followed throughout 2010 and up to the date of development and implementation of Group policies.
approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based approach in establishing the Groups system of internal Accountability and audit control and in reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key Financial Reporting internal risks, it has established a number of Group-wide procedures, The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a balanced and policies and standards and has set up a framework for reporting clear assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
The Audit Committee is responsible for This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans and Chief reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk management, internal Executives Statement and the Financial Review contained in this control systems and the interim and annual financial statements Annual Report.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the before their submission to the Board.
Directors and auditors are set out on page 63.
Ferrexpo plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Governance Report continued Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC reviews in note 38 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information on monthly financial information and management accounts, and pages 107 to 115.
See also the Risks section of the Financial Review meets monthly.
A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of the consolidated financial statements.
Treasury As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures Details of the Group Treasury policy are referred to in the Financial several key elements have been established within the Group to Highlights section on pages 30 to 33 and in the financial statements ensure a sound system of internal control which is described in on pages 107 to 115. detail below.
Investment proposals These include: A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written Executive Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee and then to the Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of Board for approval.
authority applied to subsidiary companies including FPM and FYM, the key Ukrainian subsidiaries, and Helogistics Holdings Internal audit GmbH, the Austrian subsidiary acquired at the end of 2010.
A Group-wide internal audit function has been established using an Clearly defined information and financial reporting experienced internal auditor who is based in Ukraine and is systems, including regular forecasts and a rigorous annual independent of operational management, reporting directly to the budgeting process with reporting against key financial CFO and the Audit Committee.
Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary An internal audit programme for 201012 has been approved by the process where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated Audit Committee and focuses on the areas of risk identified by the authority limits.
risk reviews carried out on an ongoing basis by the Executive Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied in Committee and the Board.
accordance with pre-set limits for investment and management of the Groups liquid resources including a separate Auditor independence treasury function.
The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the Internal audit by an in-house internal auditor based in Ukraine independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst see below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls & Young LLP, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to shareholders.
the CFO and the Audit Committee.
Fraud management through an independent department The overall performance, independence and objectivity of the operating in the Groups key operating subsidiary FPM.
auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into A whistleblowing policy is in place under which staff may in account the views of management, and the outcome of this review is confidence raise concerns about financial or other impropriety.
relayed to the relevant partners of Ernst & Young.
The Audit Committee has regular discussions with the external auditors, There are a number of components to the system of internal controls without management being present.
within the Group which facilitate the control procedures and these are detailed as follows: The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of A risk matrix has been developed and is monitored and reviewed the provision of non-audit services and employment of former by the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee.
These policies ensure that the external A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and auditors are restricted to providing only those services which do not detect material error and loss.
The policy on the provision of A budgetary and periodic reporting review process performed by non-audit services prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision the Executive Committee.
of transaction or payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and A documented structure of delegated authorities and approvals valuation of material financial statement amounts.
Any assignment for transaction and investment decisions, including any with that is proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of related parties.
US$500,000 must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its An Investment Committee a sub-committee of the Executive Chairman.
The auditors are also expected to provide to the Audit Committee meets which twice a month to approve capital Committee information about policies and processes for maintaining expenditures within limits delegated by the Executive Committee independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current and the Board.
requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners A programme of internal audit reviews has been performed by the and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the internal auditor.
overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
Ferrexpo plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by the external auditors are shown in note 9 to the Financial Statements on page 84.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Head of Investor Relations meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
JPMorgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Groups major investors.
Information about the views of major investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CFO and the Head of Investor Relations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees endeavour to be present at the AGMs to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The voting results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Board approved this report on 22 March 2011.
