corporate governance The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of As Martyn Williams is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on he cannot be considered to be independent.
However, the Board Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council feels strongly that it is beneficial for its employees to be represented in 2006 the Code.
The way in which it applies those principles is on the Board in this way so that important employee-related issues set out below.
Except as described in paragraph 1.1 b below, the can be raised at the highest level and a two-way communication Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
process between the management of the Company and its employees is maintained.
1 the BoARD AND its pRiNcipAL coMMittees Details of the Board, its members and its principal committees are Prior to the resignation of Ellis Watson, the Company did not set out below.
technically comply with the Code provision that at least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up of Non-Executive 1.1 the Board Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
a Board structure and responsibilities That would also be the case upon the appointment of any The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four Executive successor Marketing and Business Development Director.
Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets at least However, the Directors are satisfied that the effective contribution nine times each year and is responsible for setting and reviewing the of the independent Non-Executive Directors ensures that the Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing the financial and process and operations of the Board are conducted in the interests operational performance of each of the Groups business units, of shareholders as a whole and that the Board possesses the agreeing and reviewing progress against the Groups annual breadth of business, financial and international experience budgets and setting and reviewing on a regular basis its longer term necessary to manage effectively an organisation of the size and business plans.
It also has a schedule of matters specifically complexity of the Group.
reserved to it including approval of the half-year and full-year financial statements, financing arrangements, material capital commitments, c Roles of the chairman and chief executive business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory The Chairman authorities and operating and accounting policies.
The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board: During the year, the Board met nine times and all members of the Board attended all meetings except for Colin Hood who was absent The Chairman is responsible for: from one of those meetings.
The Board also held a number of l eadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects separate strategy meetings.
of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: On 1 May 2009, Dean Finch, Chief Operating Officer, resigned ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the as a Director.
provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the On 7 May 2009, Colin Hood and Tim OToole were appointed as Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors: Non-Executive Directors.
managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the On 23 July 2009, Ellis Watson was appointed as Marketing and discussion of complex or contentious issues: Business Development Director.
He subsequently resigned on ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as 22March 2010 to take up a new role as Chief Executive Officer awhole, its Committees and individual Directors: of a company in the media and music industry.
taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to On 29 September 2009, Jeff Carr was appointed as Finance Director.
enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team: Until then, Nick Chevis, Acting Finance Director, attended all facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors meetings of the Board, although not as a member of the Board.
and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors: b Board balance and independence The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that reviewed against the definition of independence in the Code.
new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to David Begg, John Sievwright, Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and ensure their early contribution to the Board: and Tim OToole are considered to be independent within this definition.
e ncouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RepoRt oF the DiRectoRs The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is evaluation review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior and in-depth knowledge and experience of the Groups business, management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information combined with his external business experience, enables him to is provided on their responsibilities and obligations under law, provide effective leadership of the Board and to continue to make regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process is apositive contribution to the Groups ongoing business.
supported during the year by the programme of business presentations described above.
The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which remain relatively unchanged from last year, are described in his The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the law biography onpage 29.
The Board performance evaluation process and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
referred to below confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the necessary time available to f performance evaluation devote to the proper performance of his duties as Chairman.
During the course of the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the The Chief Executive Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure The Chief Executive is Sir Moir Lockhead.
He also has a written that the Board, its Committees and each individual Director continued statement of responsibilities which has been approved by to act effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected the Board: of them and to identify any additional training requirements.
A tailored questionnaire was developed, which each Director completed.
The The Chief Executive is responsible for: responses were analysed and discussed at a meeting of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director led a process of running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
No significant issues authorities delegated to him by the Board: were raised in the course of the evaluation process.
ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and strategy set by the Board for the Group: g Re-election of Directors day-to-day management of the executive and senior management As required by the Companys articles of association, Directors team: offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to seek leading the development of senior management within the Group re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable The biographical details of all the Directors, including those seeking individuals for future Director roles: re-election at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, are set out on ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner pages 28 and 29. of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and developments: and h Appointment of Non-executive Directors leading the development of the Groups future strategy including Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
They have letters of appointment which are available on request for inspection.
d senior independent Non-executive Director John Sievwright, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior i Directors and officers liability insurance Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels of cover throughout the year as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve The cover was renewed on 1 April 2010. or for which such contact is inappropriate.
2 coMMittees oF the BoARD e information and professional development of In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Board members the terms of reference for which are published on the Companys The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board delegated certain matters to Committees.
The principal such members have direct access to senior executives should they wish Committees are: to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The head of each operating division attends Board meetings on a 2.1 executive safety committee esc regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly performance of and current issues facing that division.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers give presentations on current issues facing the business.
The ESC reviews the Groups safety performance and practices, develops safety policies and procedures and follows All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company up on outstanding issues.
During the year a number of meetings were Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent professional attended by independent safety experts and senior representatives advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
of relevant industry bodies, including the Health & Safety Executive.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce coNtiNUeD 2.2 executive Management Board eMB 2.6 Audit committee The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain The Audit Committee is chaired by John Sievwright and includes senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts David Begg, Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and Tim OToole.
It met as a general operating management committee and meets on a three times during the year and all members attended each meeting monthly basis to review outstanding issues and to consider the held whilst they were Directors except for Colin Hood who was Groups operational and financial performance.
absent from one of these meetings.
The Group Director of Internal Audit and the Companys external auditors attended all of these 2.3 executive committee meetings.
Executive Directors and other senior managers attended The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and where requested and as appropriate.
meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief The Board considers that each member of the Committee has Executive and has specific delegated powers within prescribed limits sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course of business which to discharge its functions effectively.
need to be considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the effectiveness 2.4 Nomination committee and appointments to the Board of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies and The Nomination Committee is chaired by Martin Gilbert, the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
Chairman, and includes David Begg, John Sievwright, Audrey Italso keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the Baxter, Colin Hood and Tim OToole.
Sir Moir Lockhead attends audits conducted by the internal audit department and the external meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the auditors, the consistency of accounting policies and reporting Committee and Martyn Williams also attends such meetings at across the Group and the half-year and full-year financial statements the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee to represent the before they are presented to the Board.
The Committee meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-Executive The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the Directors.
Its recommendations are then put to the full Board for Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and consideration.
External search consultants are used to assist the effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal audit process, where appropriate.
department is focused on areas of priority as identified by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by During the year the Committee met three times and all members of the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives the Committee attended each meeting held whilst they were Directors.
of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve identified control weaknesses are The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, implemented.
The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
each of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and serves a maximum of three three-year terms.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the The Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a Groups external auditors and recommends to the Board the audit limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising fee to be paid to the external auditors.
The Boards decision on that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and these matters is subject to the approval of shareholders.
However, no such appointment can be taken up without independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held such outside directorships is set out on page 40 of the Directors regarding their terms of engagement, remuneration and proposal Remuneration Report.
The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years and, on that basis, the 2009 10 audit will 2.5 Remuneration committee be the last year of Nigel Mercers tenure: he will be replaced by The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Audrey Graham Richardson, subject to shareholders approval of Baxter, met eight times during the year and all members of the Deloitte LLPs reappointment at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Committee attended all of its meetings held whilst they were Directors except for Audrey Baxter, Colin Hood and Tim OToole, The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the who were each absent from one of these meetings.
Details of the exception of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential membership of the Committee are set out in the Directors acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the current Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 43, together with a statement auditors knowledge of the Companys business processes and of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details of controls means that they are best placed to undertake this work Directors remuneration appear on page 41. cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees did not compromise audit independence.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RepoRt oF the DiRectoRs The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the mitigate those risks.
The probability of risks occurring as well as the Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement likely impact on the Groups business, should the risks occur, are of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the also assessed and documented.
These risks are assessed on a external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external regular basis, taking into account changes in both external and auditors also meet separately with the Committee and or the internal circumstances, which may include alterations to regulatory Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report requirements, disruption to information systems, industrial relation and Accounts and Half-yearly Financial Report go through a detailed issues, control breakdowns, as well as changes in the economic verification and due diligence process involving external advisers.
climate and social, ethical and environmental issues.
From the reports submitted to it by the Risk Group the Board is able to keep The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other under regular review the major risks and mitigating controls facing officers of the Group to attend its meetings but none has the right of the Group.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
4.2 control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and The business considered and discussed by the Committee during moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles the year included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year with which all managers and employees are required to comply.
and full-year results, the 2010 11 Internal Audit Plan and budget, The Group has a Code of Business Ethics, which is part of the papers concerning any regular and special audits and an executive Groups Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and applies to all summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis assessments of its subsidiary undertakings, a copy of which is available on the and a review of the implications of changes in accounting standards.
3 FiNANciAL RepoRtiNG In addition, the Board has established a Group Hospitality and The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups Gifts Register which records all hospitality or gifts, the value of external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and which exceeds a fide minimis amount, given or received by all Board comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and and EMB members.
Additional Hospitality and Gift Registers are prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and also maintained at the divisional level ensuring that all senior other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published management in the Group are required to disclose hospitality information including, but not limited to, the year-end and half-yearly or gifts given or received.
financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities for The Group has a defined divisional organisational structure with preparing the financial statements may be found on page 47. lines of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a 4 iNteRNAL coNtRoLs manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day The Board has established procedures to provide an ongoing business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall direction of the faced by the Group and to meet the requirements of the Code and Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a its related guidance on internal controls.
These procedures are number of specific items, which ensures that it retains control over subject to regular review.
key business decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including 4.1 Responsibility treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
The responsibility for establishing detailed of these functions is monitored by an Executive Director.
control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary lies with the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
4.3 Monitoring A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and which complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance material misstatement or loss.
function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
These are The Board has continued to strengthen the ongoing process for also available on the Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both by the Group.
As part of this process a Risk Group, comprising Group management and the Executive Directors.
Regular forecast senior management representatives from all of the Groups main updates are completed during the year and compared against businesses as well as from the finance, treasury, legal, insurance actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report and internal audit functions, reviews the significant risks facing the of operating performance, with a commentary on variances against Group.
The Risk Group meets at least four times annually and budget and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
reports to the Board with the express purpose of reviewing the risk Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are and control procedures in each of the business areas and support monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate functions.
As an integral part of planning and review, management in strategic reviews which include consideration of long term from each of the business areas and support functions identify the financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
risks facing their operations, as well as the controls in place to FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce coNtiNUeD Throughout the year Internal Audit conduct a comprehensive Rail franchise agreements programme of reviews of internal controls within the operating units.
The Group is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its These reviews invariably bring to light a number of minor control rail franchise agreements.
If it fails to comply with these conditions it weaknesses.
These are discussed with management and remedial may be liable to penalties including the potential termination of one action plans are agreed.
Where appropriate, follow up visits to the or more of the rail franchise agreements.
This would result in the operating entity then confirm that the action plans have been Group losing the right to continue operating the affected operations completed and that the controls that have been put in place are and, consequently, the related revenues or cash flows.
No material losses, contingencies or may also lose some or all of the amounts set aside as security for uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups Annual performance bonds and season ticket bonds.
Report and Accounts have resulted from this process.
Compliance with franchise conditions is closely managed and 4.4 Risks and Uncertainties monitored on a monthly basis by senior management and There are a number of key potential risks and uncertainties that procedures are in place to minimise the risk of non-compliance.
without effective management could have an adverse impact on the Groups performance.
Legislation and regulation Our businesses are subject to numerous laws regulating safety competitive pressures procedures, equipment specifications, employment requirements, All of the Groups businesses compete in the areas of pricing and environmental procedures, insurance coverage and other operating service and face competition from a number of sources.
These laws and regulations are constantly subject to change.
The costs associated with complying In UK Bus, the main competitor remains the car.
The cost of driving with the adoption of new legislation, regulation or other laws could a car is generally perceived as being lower than travelling by bus, adversely impact the results of our operations.
especially if there is more than one person in the car.
To make bus travel a viable alternative to the car the Company continues to work To help mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes the with local authorities to introduce bus priority measures and effect Group regularly lobbies both Government and transport bodies.
infrastructure changes promoting bus patronage.
In addition the UK Bus market is deregulated and very competitive.
There are over Labour costs and employee relations 500 bus operators in the UK and in all markets in which the Group Labour costs represent the largest component of the Groups operates it faces competition.
The success of deregulation is operating costs.
Future labour shortages or decreasing demonstrated by high levels of satisfaction amongst customers unemployment rates could hinder the Groups ability to recruit where there are low public subsidies.
Notwithstanding this there is and retain qualified employees leading to a higher than expected currently ongoing a Competition Commission Inquiry into the supply increase in the cost of recruitment, training and other staff costs.
of local bus services in the United Kingdom, excluding Northern In addition, it is important for a labour intensive Group that good Ireland and London.
The notification of provisional findings is not employee relations are maintained.
The Group seeks to mitigate expected before October 2010. these risks by its recruitment and retention policies, training schemes and working practices.
The main competitor to the Groups UK Rail businesses is again the car and, to a lesser extent, long-distance coach and budget Fuel costs airlines.
To help mitigate the risks posed by these pressures the Fuel prices and supply levels can be influenced significantly by Group is working with a number of local and national bodies to international, political and economic circumstances.
If fuel supply ensure that the services provided meet, or exceed, the requirements shortages were to arise because of national strikes, world supply of our stakeholders.
difficulties, disruption of refining capacity or oil imports, the resultant higher fuel prices and disruption to services could adversely impact In North America, the Groups businesses cover a wide geographic the Groups operating results.
spread competing with several large companies as well as a substantial number of smaller, locally owned or government owned To mitigate the risks of rising fuel costs the Group regularly enters operators.
Our competitors in the yellow school bus business also into forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed prices.
In addition, the include school districts which self-operate approximately two thirds Group seeks to limit the impact of unexpected fuel price rises of yellow school buses in North America.
Similarly, while there is a through efficiency and pricing measures.
significant amount of transit and service businesses operated by private entities, including several large companies, our First Transit treasury risks and insurance costs and First Services businesses also compete with many public The Board has set a comprehensive policy for the management authorities which self-operate their service.
Our Greyhound coach of risks arising from treasury operations.
These include risks operations face competition from a number of other coach operators associated with foreign exchange rate fluctuations, changes in fuel in North America as well as from budget airlines.
In North America all prices, interest rate movements and liquidity.
This is set out in more of our businesses continue to compete on service, quality and price.
detail in note 25 to the financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice and to control and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RepoRt oF the DiRectoRs RisK iMpAct MitiGAtiNG coNtRoL competitive pressures Loss of business Focus on stakeholder requirements including service, quality and price Rail franchise agreements Potential termination of one or more of the Close monitoring and management of all rail franchise agreements franchise obligations Legislation and regulation Adverse impact on our ability to operate Regular lobbying of both Government and transport bodies and monitoring of quality procedures Labour costs and Inability to recruit and retain qualified Adoption of appropriate recruitment and employee relations employees reduces retention, training and working practices Fuel costs Adverse impact on operating results Adoption of forward contracts to buy fuel at fixed costs together with efficiency and pricing measures treasury risks and Funding not achieved adverse impact Comprehensive treasury management insurance costs on operating results policies, monitoring and oversight, and Group emphasis on safety pensions Material changes to accounting cost and Diversification of investments and regular cash requirements review of investment positions terrorism Reputational damage and the demand Implementation of security measures and for our services the training of employees Retention of key management Inability to execute Group strategy Adoption of market based compensation packages customer service and Revenue levels reduce and impact on Intensive staff training on service associated contract retention brand image requirements and close monitoring of service KPIs environmental Financial loss reputational damage Detailed fuel handling procedures, monitoring of utilities usage, adoption of emission reduction policies and comprehensive Corporate Social Responsibility programmes economy Loss of business Organisational structure of businesses and close monitoring of prices, capacity and demand The Group has three main insurable risks: third party claims arising pensions from vehicle and general operations, employee injuries and property The Group has significant defined benefit pension obligations relating damage.
The size of the Groups operations is such that there is a to its UK Bus, Rail and Greyhound businesses.
Under the franchise high frequency of low value claims which the Group self-insures up arrangements the UK Rail business is not responsible for any to certain limits, and purchases insurance above these limits from residual deficit at the end of a franchise so there is only short term reputable global insurance firms.
cash-flow risk within this business.
For both UK Bus and Greyhound the volatility of the underlying investments and liabilities can create Although the Group seeks to mitigate the risk of rising insurance material changes in the accounting cost and cash requirements in costs through its emphasis on safety, there can be no assurance subsequent years.
Through diversification of investments the Group that future self-insurance and external insurance costs may not seeks to mitigate these impacts, although in extreme market adversely impact the Groups business and results of operations.
conditions it is not possible to completely negate these.
Inaddition, material levels of insurance cover for loss of profits and cash flows associated with business interruption events is not generally available in the insurance market for transportation businesses.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 coRpoRAte GoVeRNANce coNtiNUeD terrorism economy The threat from terrorism remains a concern in the countries An economic downturn, whether at a global, regional or national in which we operate.
We recognise that public transport has level could have a negative impact on the Groups businesses and been subject to attack previously and it is important we take all the opportunity to grow existing contracts.
The level of economic reasonable steps to help guard against such activity on any of activity affects the number of bus and train journeys taken by the services we operate.
Taking these steps helps protect our passengers in the UK and North America.
Many areas of the customers and staff, provides reassurance and supports our Groups business offer a certain degree of protection against commitment to safety and security.
Our Group Head of Security economic downturn in specific geographic markets, in particular the leads this and coordinates the work needed to respond effectively North American school bus business and the revenue support and to this threat.
This includes developing and applying good practice profit sharing arrangements in place in certain rail franchises, the and training our employees so that they can respond effectively to ability of most UK Bus operating companies to modify services on any perceived threat or incident.
giving 56 days notice and the even greater flexibility given to the Greyhound operations, particularly in North America.
Retention of key management Attracting and keeping key members of senior management is 4.5 Whistleblowing vital in ensuring that the Group continues to have the necessary The Group has well established procedures whereby employees expertise and continuity to execute its strategy.
In order that may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to personal issues, management have diverse and challenging careers they are potential fraud, health and safety, harassment, discrimination, security given autonomy, within parameters set by the Board, to run their or any other matter.
The confidential hotline covers all businesses businesses.
The Group also offers market based compensation across the Group and each country in which itoperates.
packages consisting of an appropriate mix of long and short term incentives.
The Group is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements are satisfactory and will enable a proportionate and independent customer service and associated contract retention investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action to The Groups revenues are at risk if it does not continue to provide be taken.
the level of service expected by customers.
This could result in contracts not being renewed in the case of our North American 4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls business and passengers no longer using our services in the UK The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness and North America.
To mitigate this risk all staff undertake intensive of the system of internal controls for the year under review and to training programmes to ensure they are aware of and abide by the the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts through levels of service that are required by our customers in each the monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors business.
The Board also monitors in detail a series of customer confirm that they have kept under regular review the effectiveness service KPIs at each meeting to ensure strict targets are being met.
of the Groups internal audit function.
environmental 4.7 treasury operations We store and manage large quantities of fuel at our maintenance The Board has set a policy for the management of the risks from sites, which presents a potential regulatory and financial risk in the treasury operations and this is set out in more detail in note 25 to the event of significant loss or spillage.
To mitigate these risks our financial statements.
A Group Treasury Policy has been formulated storage facilities are subject to regular inspection and all fuel and adopted to ensure compliance with best practice and to control handling operations are subject to detailed operating procedures.
and monitor effectively the risks attendant upon treasury and banking operations.
We are subject to ongoing changes in environmental regulations.
In the coming year we will be subject to the Carbon Reduction currency exchange rate fluctuation and exposure Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme, which came into force in The Groups principal operations are in the UK, the US and Canada April 2010.
We have put in place a comprehensive data management and are therefore subject to currency fluctuations, both in terms and reporting package for monitoring the utilities usage covered by of its trading activities and the translation of its financial statements.
the regulations and have taken early action which will favour our The Group currently has a significant natural hedge arising from ranking in the public league table.
We continuously review regulatory dollar-denominated earnings in the US businesses offset by changes through our CSR Steering Committee that reports directly dollar-denominated interest costs and fuel costs in its UK businesses.
4.8 significant agreements change of control In line with all businesses we face the challenge of addressing a Financing agreements climate change, both managing its impact and reducing emissions, The Group has a number of syndicated facilities including the in line with the targets established in the Climate Change Act.
US$1,500m multi-currency revolving credit and guarantee facility Climate change has the potential to impact on our UK and North between, amongst others, the Company and HSBC Bank plc, American operations, a risk we need to keep under review.
We are JPMorgan plc and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc dated seeking to reduce our own emissions in line with Government 9February 2007.
The relevant syndicated financing agreements targets but are also seeking to ensure we capitalise on the contain provisions entitling the lenders to exercise termination or opportunities the need to reduce carbon emissions brings for a other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
business such as ours that offers low carbon solutions to peoples Following any change of control of the Company, the majority of mobility needs.
the lenders are obliged to negotiate with the Company with a view 36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RepoRt oF the DiRectoRs to resolving any concerns arising from such change of control and, d London bus contracts if the matter has not been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction The Groups UK Bus business operates London bus routes with of the majority of the lenders in that time, then, if the majority of the London Bus Services Limited.
These agreements include change lenders so require, the agent must cancel the total commitments of control provisions and are significant when all the routes are under the facility and require prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
The Companys bilateral financing agreements contain similar provisions and, following a change of control of the Company, the 4.9 Auditors banks shall negotiate with the Company with a view to resolving any Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as concerns arising from such change of control and, if the matter has auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the not been resolved to the reasonable satisfaction of the banks in that forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
time, they may if they so require cancel the total commitments under the facilities and require prepayment of all outstanding amounts.
5 ReLAtioNs With shARehoLDeRs The Group recognises the importance of regular communication The 300m 6.875% bonds due 2013, the 250m 6.125% bonds with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Accounts are due 2019, the 300m 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% made available to all shareholders and a Half-yearly Financial Report bonds due 2021 and the 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024 issued by is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
These reports the Company may also be affected by a change of control of the are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties Company.
A change of control in respect of the 300m 6.875% with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational bonds due 2013 and the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019 may result performance, its financial results and prospects.
in an increase in the interest rate payable on those bonds of 1.5% per annum.
However, the interest rate on the bonds will only be so All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, increased if certain further conditions in relation to the credit rating appointments etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the of the bonds are also satisfied.
In respect of the 300m 8.125% Groups website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% bonds due 2021 and the shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are 200m 6.875% bonds due 2024, upon a change of control of the made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director following the Company, together with the satisfaction of certain further conditions announcement of the half-year and full-year results.
Other Directors, in relation to the credit rating of the bonds, the bondholders have the including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major option to require the Company to redeem the bonds.
b UK Rail Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from The Groups franchised passenger rail operators, First Capital investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
The Connect, First ScotRail, First TransPennine Express and First Great Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with major Western, are each party to a franchise agreement with Scottish shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they expect Ministers in respect of First ScotRail and with the Secretary of State that informal dialogue to continue.
for Transport in respect of the other operators.
These franchise agreements are subject to termination clauses which may apply on a 6 ANNUAL GeNeRAL MeetiNG change of control.
These operators and the Groups non-franchised All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors rail operators, First Hull Trains and First GBRf, each hold railway at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a report is licences as required by the Railways Act 1993 as amended : these made on the highlights of the key business developments during the licences may be revoked on three months notice if a change of year under review.
The Chairmen of the Nomination, Remuneration control occurs without the approval of the Office of Rail Regulation.
and Audit Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to answer All of these operators also require and hold track access agreements specific questions from shareholders.
All Directors who then held with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under which they are office were present at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
permitted to access railway infrastructure.
Failure by any of the operators to maintain its railway licence is a potential termination Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders event under the terms of the track access agreements.
The Groups at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions railway operators also lease rolling stock from specialist rolling stock are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially leasing companies HSBC Rail UK Limited which is currently separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, undergoing restructuring and rebranding as Eversholt Rail Group, where votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are Porterbrook Leasing Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
subsequently announced to the meeting.
Amaterial number of the individual leasing agreements include change of control provisions.
c Joint venture agreements The Company has joint venture agreements with Keolis UK Limited in relation to First TransPennine Express and with DSB in relation to DSB First Aps and DSB Sverige AB.
As is customary, these joint venture agreements include provisions addressing change of control.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37
