cOrpOrate gOvernance repOrt The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate Ensuring compliance in relation to governance.
The way in which the Company applies the a Safety, health and environmental matters principles set out in the Combined Code on Corporate b Corporate Governance: Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Delegating clear responsibility and authority to the in June 2008 the Combined Code is described below.
Chairman, Committees of the Board, the Group Chief The UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued Executive and other Directors: by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010, will apply Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing to the Company in respect of the financial year ending Authority, London Stock Exchange and other 31st December 2011 and the Company intends to comply regulations: and with the Code in full.
Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets and major management financial decisions as determined from time to time by the Board.
cOmpliance statement The Company has been in compliance with all relevant Board Meetings provisions of the Combined Code throughout the year The Board met six times last year for regular business under review.
and the Directors participated in the Annual Strategy Conference.
The Board meets as necessary for any matters arising at other times.
At each Board meeting, the Board the cOmbined cOde applicatiOn Of principles considers reports from each of the Executive Directors covering his area of responsibility.
Directors The Board An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors David Richardson is the Non-Executive Chairman of the are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Board.
Charles Hammond is the Group Chief Executive.
Annual General Meeting after their appointment and Gerry Brown is Senior Independent Director.
Throughout thereafter to re-election at intervals of no more than three the year, the Board of Directors comprised five Nonyears.
In 2012, all Directors will be subject to re-election Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The annually in accordance with the provisions of the UK Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors, with the Corporate Governance Code.
exception of the Chairman, to be independent.
Stuart Paterson was appointed as Group Finance Director on The attendance at Board Meetings during 2010 was as 15th March 2011.
Wilson Murray retires as a Director at shown below: the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
Meetings Name Attended No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for David Richardson 6 more than nine years from the date of his appointment.
Charles Hammond 6 The Board has adopted the principle that Non-Executive Wilson Murray 6 Directors should normally serve two three year terms and Perry Glading 6 that any term beyond six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Gerry Brown 5 Director shall serve longer than nine years.
Gerry Brown Struan Robertson 6 and Struan Robertson were appointed for a third term James Tuckey 6 in 2009.
Marie-Louise Clayton 6 The Directors believe that it is essential that the Group The Chairman holds one meeting with the Non-Executive should be led and controlled by an effective Board.
Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Board has adopted a formal Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it on such matters as: A greeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management: C ontrolling and monitoring the financial performance of the Group: R eviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major changes in organisation and direction of the Group: A pproving major expenditure and transactions with other companies including, for example, acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 cOrpOrate gOvernance repOrt continued Sub-Committees of the Board Annual Evaluation of Performance The Board has delegated certain matters to three subAn annual evaluation of the Boards performance and that committees of the Board comprising the Audit Committee, of its sub-committees, individual Directors and Chairman the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination is undertaken.
Each Director receives a Board Performance Committee.
Details of the membership of each subEvaluation Questionnaire and separate Committee committee are shown on pages 37 to 44.
Performance Evaluation Forms where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards own performance and that of the The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance Audit and Remuneration Committees.
As the Nomination at, the various sub-committee meetings for the period Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate under review: Performance Evaluation Questionnaire for that Committee however any comments on the Nomination Committee Audit Remuneration Nomination may be sent to the Group Company Secretary as part of Committee Committee Committee the Board Questionnaire.
Number of meetings held 3 4 1 The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider fulfilment of terms of reference, necessary skills Name and resources of members, evaluation of the supporting David Richardson n a n a 1 processes for the Committee and an overall view of the Gerry Brown 3 3 effectiveness of the Committee.
Struan Robertson 3 4 1 The results were compiled and addressed by the Group James Tuckey 3 4 1 Company Secretary and reported to the Board.
The results Marie-Louise Clayton 3 4 1 were considered by the Board at its March meeting in 2011.
Charles Hammond n a n a 1 No major changes were required as a result of this review.
Group Company Secretary An evaluation of the performance of the Group Chief The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring Executive and each of the other Non-Executive Directors that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations was undertaken by the Chairman.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary.
The Group The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that Director, met once without the Chairman and the Executive the Directors are fully aware of their duties and Directors to evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
responsibilities as Directors and that they undertake appropriate training.
As part of the annual budget presentation to the Board, the Board reviews the targets which were given to individual Independent Advice Executive Directors and Senior Managers within the Group There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take and subsequently discusses and approves the targets to independent professional advice, if necessary, at the be given to these individuals for the following year.
External Audit Process Unresolved Concerns The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved effectiveness of the external audit process by way of a in connection with the running of the Company or a questionnaire which reviewed, on a graded scale, the proposed action, their concerns are recorded in the Board robustness of the audit, the quality of delivery and the Minutes.
If a Non-Executive Director resigns, he is required quality of people and service.
The Audit Committee was to provide a written statement to the Chairman, for satisfied as to the effectiveness of the external audit process.
circulation to the Board, if he has any such concerns.
Directors Remuneration Insurance Cover Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Report The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors on page 39 which sets out the composition of the and Officers and the Trustees of its pension scheme against Remuneration Committee, the Companys remuneration the costs of defending themselves in civil legal proceedings policy for Directors and details of such remuneration taken against them in that capacity and in respect of including bonus schemes and pensions for each Director, damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any and the Committees compliance with all relevant sections proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK Law, the of the Combined Code.
Company also indemnifies its Directors, Officers and Trustees.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides All Executive Directors are on one year rolling contracts.
cover where a Director, Officer or Trustee has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
No Executive Director who has external directorships is currently paid for these directorships.
34 C. Relations with Shareholders Identification of Business Risks and compliance The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional with the Guidance shareholders based on a mutual understanding Throughout last year, the Group complied with the of objectives.
The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures involved in the identification The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys of business risks and compliance with the Guidance.
broker which reflect the views of the major shareholders on The Board regularly reviews the process of identifying, an unattributable basis following the half-yearly and annual evaluating and managing the Groups key risks which presentations to major shareholders.
The Board also allows it to take a view on the effectiveness of these receives copies of analysts reports on a regular basis.
All subsidiaries are required to assess key risks and related control and monitoring procedures In 2010, the Chairman met, or had discussions with, certain on an ongoing basis.
The Board monitors this process of the Companys major shareholders.
As part of the on a regular basis.
governance process, other major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman should they Major Corporate Information Systems so wish.
The Senior Independent Director is also available The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and for meetings if requested.
financial reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual results to budget.
Management accounts The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to are compiled on a monthly basis.
Variances from budget communicate with private investors and encourages their are thoroughly investigated and revisions to forecasts are participation both inside and outside the formal meeting.
made twice during the year.
Cash Flow projections are prepared monthly and cover a rolling twelve month period As in prior years, at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, to ensure that the Group has adequate funds.
The port the Company will ensure that the level of proxies for business uses the Integrated Port Operating System and against each resolution is intimated to shareholders IPOS to provide it with up-to-date information on marine, after each resolution has been dealt with.
general cargo and container operations.
Together with Cognos software, this enables core information to be As at 22nd March 2011, the Companys issued share tailored to managements own particular requirements capital comprises 45,749,823 Ordinary Shares of 50p each.
to assist in the day-to-day operation of the business.
D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the 2005 Main Control Procedures Turnbull Committee Guidance on Internal Control Divisional management establishes control procedures the Guidance in response to each of the key risks identified.
Standard Internal Control: The Board is responsible for and has financial control procedures operate throughout the Group reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal to ensure the integrity of the Groups accounts.
The Board control in accordance with the Guidance throughout the has established procedures for authorisation of capital year.
No significant findings were identified which required expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an internal audit function which carries out a regular action to be taken.
The process of internal control has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of programme of systematic reviews of the financial control procedures.
approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
It should be recognised that such a system can provide only Monitoring System used by the Board reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the system which The Board participates in an annual strategy conference which includes a three year forward financial review which have been established are as follows: is then updated on an annual basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and monitors the Groups performance Control Environment The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the against those budgets.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
Groups Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility.
Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit Operating and financial responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the local boards.
Committee are contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 37.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 cOrpOrate gOvernance repOrt continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities: The Directors Directors Statement pursuant to the Disclosure are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the and Transparency Rules: Each of the Directors, whose Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements names and functions are listed on page 28 confirm that, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial The Group financial statements, which have been statements for each financial year.
Under that law the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements in accordance with International financial position and profit of the Company and Group: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and European Union.
Under company law the Directors must The Directors Report contained in this Annual Report not approve the financial statements unless they are includes a fair review of the development and satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of performance of the business and the position of the affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit Group, together with a description of the principal risks or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these and uncertainties that it faces.
financial statements, the Directors are required to: Going Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, select suitable accounting policies and then apply have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the them consistently: Group have adequate resources to continue in operational make judgements and accounting estimates that are existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is reasonable and prudent: appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the in preparing the accounts.
European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the By Order of the Board financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern Morag McNeill basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Company Secretary Company will continue in business.
22nd March 2011 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group and Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
