repOrt Of the nOminatiOn cOmmittee The members of the Nomination Committee during the In 2010, the Committee met to discuss the process of the year were: appointment of a new Group Finance Director to succeed Wilson Murray.
The Committee prepared a detailed brief of David Richardson Non-Executive Director a search to be carried out by Finlayson Wagner Black, an Chairman independent firm of Search Consultants.
The recruitment process was as follows: Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director a An overall profile for potential candidates was agreed.
James Tuckey Non-Executive Director This was arrived at having regard to the balance of the Marie-Louise Clayton Non-Executive Director Board and the Combined Code: Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive b A shortlist of candidates was drawn up based on the search results against the profile: The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the c The shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the Committee.
Chairman, the Chair of the Audit Committee, the Group Chief Executive and the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury.
Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an initial The results of the interviews were discussed with period of up to three years with the option to extend by no members of the Nomination Committee.
The members of more than two additional three year periods.
the Nomination Committee then interviewed the preferred candidate who also met the other Board members: and The Committee meets not less than once a year and at such d Thereafter, the Nomination Committee recommended to other times as business requires.
During the year one the Board that Stuart Paterson be offered the position of meeting was held.
Group Finance Director and his appointment was confirmed at the October Board meeting.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: A short biography of Stuart Paterson can be found on page 29.
The Committee is delighted that Stuart Paterson a to prepare a description of the role and capabilities has accepted the position of Group Finance Director.
He required for a particular Board appointment: brings a wealth of financial experience and the Committee b to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for is confident he will make a valuable contribution to approval of the Board, candidates to fill the Board the Company.
vacancies as and when they arise: c to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: Following their appointment new Directors and Senior d to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time Managers participate in the Companys induction to undertake the role: and programmes where each individual will meet Senior e to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been Managers, be shown the principal locations of the Group put in place for every new Director.
and be given presentations on the Companys strategy, targets and different business units.
The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Board in respect of the following: David Richardson Chairman a the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: b the re-election by shareholders of any Director under 22nd March 2011 the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: c the continuation in office as a Director of any Director at any time: and d the appointment of any Director to Executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting of all the Directors regarding these two appointments.
The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional advice on any matters within its Terms of Reference.
