repOrt Of the audit cOmmittee The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: c to monitor and review compliance with Accounting Standards and compliance with UKLA, LSE and legal Marie-Louise Clayton Non-Executive Director Chair requirements: d to monitor and review the adequacy and effectiveness Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director of the Companys internal financial controls: Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director e to monitor and review the adequacy and security of James Tuckey Non-Executive Director arrangements for employees and contractors to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in The Chair of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial reporting or other matters, and to ensure that financial experience.
arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for The Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director appropriate follow-up action: and the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, are in f to monitor and review the Companys systems and attendance at the Audit Committee meetings.
However, controls for the prevention of bribery and the detection they are not present for the full meeting as the Audit of fraud: Committee has separate sessions with only the internal g to monitor and review the effectiveness of the and external auditors present.
The Chairman of the Board Companys internal audit function in the context of the is also in attendance.
Companys overall risk management system, to review the internal audit plan and to ensure that the internal The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to audit function has adequate resources and appropriate the Committee.
access to perform its function effectively: h to consider the appointment of the external auditors, the Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial period audit fee and to make recommendations to the Board for of up to three years with the option to extend by no more it to put to shareholders in relation to the appointment, than two additional three year periods provided the reappointment or removal of the external auditors: members are considered to be independent.
The Company i to monitor and assess annually the external auditors has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year.
independence and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the j to monitor and assess annually the qualifications, year to receive reports on various matters including the resources and expertise of the external auditors, the 2009 full year accounts March, the Interim Statement effectiveness of the audit process and the co-ordination August, and on planning work for the 2010 full year audit of activities with the internal audit function: December.
In addition, the Interim Management k to monitor and review the policy on the engagement of Statements were approved by all members of the Committee.
the external auditors to supply non-audit services taking into account any external guidance: The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee authorise it l to ensure that all matters within the remit of the to seek any information it requires from any employee and Committee are dealt with in an open, fair and transparent all employees are required to co-operate with any requests manner: and made by the Committee.
The Committee is authorised by m to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect the Board to obtain outside legal or other independent of which it considers that action or improvement is professional advice and to secure the attendance of needed and make recommendations as to the steps outsiders with relevant experience and expertise if it is to be taken.
The risk management system is reviewed by the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: The Audit Committee reviewed the external auditors independence: it considered the external auditors quality a t o monitor and review the integrity of the financial control procedures and reviewed and approved the level statements of the Company including its annual and of audit fees by reference to the total level of fees which half-yearly reports, interim management statements the external auditors had been paid during the year: it also and any other formal announcements relating to the compared the fees paid to the external auditors with fees Companys financial performance and to review paid to other professional advisors for accounting and significant financial reporting issues and judgements other tax work.
It received a presentation from the external which they contain: auditors in which the views of the external auditors were b to review and challenge where necessary, the expressed in relation to the question of independence.
consistency of, and changes to, accounting policies, It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit the method used to account for significant or unusual process considering the quality of people and service transactions, the clarity of disclosure in the financial provided by the external auditors, the robustness of the reports and all material information presented within audit and the quality of delivery.
the financial statements: Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 repOrt Of the audit cOmmittee continued  LLP have been the Companys The Audit Committee carried out a review of its auditors since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in effectiveness by considering such matters as skillsets of 1992.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship members, quality of Audit Committee papers, relationships with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied with with the external auditors and the internal auditor and their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered it suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit The results were discussed and approved by the work.
The external auditors of listed companies are Audit Committee which expressed itself satisfied required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the as to its effectiveness.
Group and subsidiary accounts every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for five years.
The Audit Committee also regularly reviews its Terms of Reference and the policies within its remit.
In 2010 the The Audit Committees policy on the external auditors Committee updated its Terms of Reference and the Risk undertaking non-audit work is as follows: and Treasury Policies.
1 Audit Related Services The Audit Committee also received a report at all of its This is the primary area of work for the external auditors.
meetings from the internal auditor on the work which had If any additional accounting support is required, then this been carried out.
A separate Internal Audit Plan is presented should be considered on a competitive basis.
to the Audit Committee by the internal auditor for consideration at the last Audit Committee meeting of each 2 Tax Consulting year in respect of the following years work programme.
In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position is The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of important, Forth Ports may use the external auditors and the internal audit function and was satisfied as to the their associates but this does not preclude the Group from effectiveness of that function given the size and complexity using other tax consulting firms.
Significant additional tax of the business.
work should be evaluated competitively.
A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout 3 General and Systems Consulting the Group.
This policy sets out the position whereby All significant consulting projects, including due diligence any concerns, including those of a financial nature, work, should be subject to competitive tender.
The Group may be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
Finance Director is required to give prior approval of work to be carried out by the external auditors if the fee proposal Marie-Louise Clayton is between 5,000 and 49,999.
There is an aggregate cap Chair on the Group Finance Directors authority on non audit fees payable to the external auditors of 200,000.
If the fee 22nd March 2011 proposal is in excess of 50,000 this should be preapproved by the Chair of the Audit Committee if it is proposed to give this work to the external auditors.
During 2010, the Company used three different firms of professional advisers to advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT and other financial matters.
The fees received by the external auditors were as follows: 2010 2009 000 000 Statutory audit fees 407 396 Non-audit services: Tax advisory services 8 12 Other 17 42 432 450 38
