l a v o r p d p M i A r o y e F t i n c i v B i i n e t t t c o a r o o A u a r r n t y i r i s c t r d d n a i n P R g a e A l d e p H e p a t m x a k S p s l e e e u y E o s R l P n i C u a o e l n r n g i R c n r t a o i e i a t i s m a n r t t o a a c c i e p n r t e d d o e e n i R E a n v p t t l y a h s i - i i O c c t t n s y o a - 88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Corporate Governance Overview like all of my board colleagues, I am firmly committed to ensuring that we collectively oversee Fresnillo plc transparently and in the interest of all shareholders.
We are fully committed to the best possible practice in corporate governance, and take our adherence to the principles and provisions of the new UK Code on Corporate Governance very seriously.
In particular, we recognise that the shareholding structure of Fresnillo plc requires us to ensure that the interests of all shareholders are well represented in the proceedings of the Board.
In our reporting this year, we have sought to demonstrate the steps that we have put in place to achieve this.
Alberto Baillres, Chairman, Fresnillo plc The Governance Structure of Fresnillo plc freSNillo plc BoArd Audit hSecr NomiNAtioNS remuNerAtioN committee committee committee committee executive committee Only Independent Directors n d I i R F C n a o i r y t s S c p S n s o k u e t r m e u n a e s n a t c m e C m t t n G a c i t e o s a v o i e e g g v n i v e n e a s s n t r a I m n r n s a c a i i a o b t e n g c o i l i e e l m n t n o s i t a r t l n t o a a y P S f i s l c & r a s m i n t s u n h a R k o g r n n e i s n a i f r t e i n v n t e d Responsibilities delegated to Responsibilities delegated to Responsibilities retained Management Board Committees by the Board O o g c n n r & e t a i i y n g l o e a g t n n a r o t S i t a r e p O GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 89 BoArd directorS committeeS Audit hSecr NomiNAtioNS remuNerAtioN iNdepeNdeNt NoN-executive directorS lord Cairns Senior Independent Director x Ch Javier Fernndez x x Fernando Ruiz x x x Fernando Solana x Guy Wilson x Ch NoN-executive directorS AppoiNted By peoleS Alberto Baillres Chairman x Ch x Juan Bordes Arturo Fernndez Rafael MacGregor x Ch executive director Jaime lomeln x PEOLES ANd FRESNILLO The Relationship Agreement aims to ensure that the Fresnillo Group can carry on its business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peoles Group are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Since IPO the Board has refined the process by which transactions between Peoles and the Company are approved and the approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented.
The key elements of this process are: Governance of Transactions with Peoles proceSS reSpoNSiBility contract Negotiation fresnillo management exco industry benchmark reports or independent verification valuation assessment financial Scrutiny Audit committee review independent directors approve under the Board Approval relationship Agreement Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 90 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction As a company with a Premium listing on the london Stock Exchange, Fresnillo is required under the FSA listing Rules to comply with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance a copy of which may be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council: www.
uk or explain its reasons for noncompliance, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010.
The following statement is therefore made in compliance with such requirement, and the sections thereafter explain how the principles in the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance were applied A detailed report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 100 to 105.
Combined Code Compliance Statement The 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code establishes, in Section 1, seventeen main principles of good governance in four areas: Directors, Directors Remuneration, Accountability and Audit, and Relations with Shareholders.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2010, the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Code, save in the following two respects: Code Provision A.
2.2: The Code states that the chairman should on appointment meet the independence criteria set out within the Code.
The Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
Alberto Baillres has been a board member of Industrias Peoles, S. A.
B. fide C. v. Peoles since 1962 and its chairman since 1967.
Peoles retains a 77.1% holding in the Company.
Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of Fresnillo over the many years before Fresnillo was listed and, therefore, the Board considers that Mr Baillres continued involvement as Chairman is very important to the Company at the present stage of its development.
Furthermore a transparent governance system has been established, primarily through the Relationship Agreement between Fresnillo and Peoles, which ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
2.1: The Code provides that the Board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three Independent Non-executive Directors.
The composition of the Fresnillo Remuneration Committee is made up of three members including two Independent Non-executive Directors one of whom, lord Cairns, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Company, Mr Baillres, who was not independent at the time of his appointment, is also a member.
The Board believes that Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Baillres is not involved in matters concerning his own remuneration.
HOW THE BOARd MANAGES ITS BUSINESS Board Membership Throughout the year, the Board consisted of ten Directors - the Non-executive Chairman, Alberto Baillres, the Chief Executive Officer, Jaime lomeln, and eight Non-executive Directors.
There were no changes to the Board during the year to 31 December 2010.
The names and biographies of the current Directors of the Company are set out on pages 84-86.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 91 The Board Structure The structure and business of the Board is designed to ensure that the Board focuses on strategy, supervising governance, risk and control issues.
Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, FSA listing Rules and the Code.
The Board has delegated authority to the following committees to facilitate the routine business of the Company: Audit Committee Executive Committee HSECR Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations Committees are available on the Companys website www.
The Executive Committee is led by the Chief Executive and is responsible for the management of the Companys businesses including the implementation of decisions agreed in principle by the Board and all executive management of the operations of the Group within the strategy and budget approved by the Board.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Board Process The Board meets at least four times a year and has an established programme of meetings.
At these meetings the Board takes responsibility for the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy and monitors the management of the Groups activities.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision which includes approvals of major expenditure and investments and key policies.
All meetings of the Board are held in Mexico.
feBruAry mArch April July AuguSt octoBer Key Activity Full year results and report Strategy Interim results Business plan and budget A table of attendance of members of the Board and Board committees at meetings for the financial year ended 31 December 2010 is set out below: Audit remuNerAtioN NomiNAtioNS hSecr BoArd committee committee committee committee 4 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings 1 meeting 1 meeting Alberto Baillres 4 4 2 2 1 1 Jaime lomeln 4 4 1 1 lord Cairns 4 4 2 2 Fernando Ruiz 4 4 4 4 2 2 1 1 Javier Fernndez 3 4 1 1 0 1 Rafael MacGregor 4 4 1 1 Juan Bordes 4 4 Arturo Fernndez 4 4 Guy Wilson 4 4 4 4 Fernando Solana 4 4 4 4 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 92 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Company Secretary is responsible for preparing a draft agenda for each Board meeting in conjunction with Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman approves the final version of the agenda.
Members of the Executive Committee are responsible for preparing papers in respect of strategic planning, policies and investment proposals for each Board meeting.
Papers are normally circulated five days before the Board meeting concerned.
All proposals presented to the Board for its consideration under the Schedule of Reserved Matters are first considered and approved by the Executive Committee.
In so doing, the Executive Committee aims to ensure that any such proposals take into consideration those factors set out in section 172, Companies Act 2006.
Matters that purely require Executive Committee approval are reported to the Board.
All Directors have received briefings from the Companys advisers, including presentations to familiarise them with their duties and responsibilities as Directors of a UK listed company.
The Chairman ensures that the induction and training processes for new Directors continues to be developed.
The Company Secretary and Carlos Ortiz Mena, the Head of legal, supported by the Groups UK legal advisers ensure that the Board are fully briefed on all of their legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Directors are encouraged to visit the Companys mines to familiarise themselves with the Fresnillo Groups operations and most of the Nonexecutive Directors have now visited at least one of the Groups locations.
The Directors may raise concerns at meetings of the Board and, if necessary, ask for such concerns to be recorded in the Board minutes.
Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is a matter reserved to the Board.
A procedure has been established to enable Directors to obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in relevant circumstances.
Performance Evaluation During the year an evaluation of performance of the individual Directors and the Board was carried out by way of anonymous questionnaires that were collated by the Company Secretary and then reviewed and discussed by the Board in October 2010.
This questionnaire focussed on issues raised by the previous evaluation exercise conducted in 2009 in respect to the consideration of strategy and risk and the Companys approach to adapting its corporate governance approach to reflect the implementation of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board continues to consider how it may devote more time to the discussion of strategic considerations and subsequent planning.
In this regard it plans to change the normal format of Board meetings to facilitate this in 2011.
The Board has also commissioned advisers to assist it to develop a framework for the identification and management of risk in line with the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors informally from time to time without the executives present.
The performance of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, being the sole Executive Director, is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in connection with his annual bonus.
The Independent Nonexecutive Directors met to evaluate the performance of the Chairman in October 2010.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance Directors and Officers liability Insurance cover is in place and a review of the cover, particularly by reference to the mining peer group among the london-listed companies, was carried out in July 2009.
The Board remain satisfied that an appropriate level of cover is in place and a review of cover will take place on an annual basis.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 93 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The Nominations Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning for the Directors and other senior executives.
Before making appointments of new Directors, the Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and identifying and nominating suitable candidates.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
The members of the Nominations Committee are Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Fernando Ruiz.
The majority of the members of the Nominations Committee are, therefore, Independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee met once during the year and considered the current membership of the Board and Board Committees.
It reviewed the Groups succession planning, the time commitment required from each director and undertook a brief self-evaluation exercise.
The Nominations Committee has not retained any external consultants to assist it in its work.
The Nominations Committee intends to review its Board appointments policy, taking into account the guidance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code on diversity issues, when it meets in the first half of 2011.
AUdIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee has responsibility for monitoring the integrity of the Fresnillo Groups financial statements.
It oversees the Groups relationship with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It also monitors the activity of the Internal Audit Department and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and risk management systems.
The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2010 were Guy Wilson Chairman of the Committee, Fernando Ruiz and Fernando Solana.
Guy Wilson was a partner at Ernst & Young prior to his retirement on 30 June 2008.
He is therefore considered to have recent and relevant financial, auditing and accounting experience.
The Audit Committee met four times in the year to deal with the following business: Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 94 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Audit committee meetiNg mAiN BuSiNeSS of the meetiNg February 2010 Review of Financial Statements for 31 December 2010 Going concern assessment Review of the report of the external auditor Reviews of risk matrix, internal audit findings, the system of internal control and compliance with mining licences Meeting with the external auditor without management present July 2010 Review of External Auditor letter to Management Review of Interim Results and External Auditor report Update on risk and internal audit reviews including internal audit findings Review of financial aspects of related party transactions prior to approval by the Board Reviews of reserves data and the insurance programme October 2010 External auditor terms of engagement and year-end audit plan Review of non-audit fees incurred with Ernst & Young and other audit firms Presentation on Board-level review of risk and embedding risk culture within operations Internal audit findings report and internal audit plan for 2011 Review of Audit Committee Charter December 2010 Year-end Audit Progress Review and report from Ernst & Young on the October Hard-close audit Independence and objectivity of the external auditor Review of internal audit findings Update on the review of the system of internal controls Meeting with internal audit without management present Evaluation of internal audit Review of the Whistleblowing Procedure Review of financial aspects of related party transactions prior to approval by the Board Audit Committee evaluation feedback The terms of reference of the Audit Committee were amended in February 2010 to extend its duties to include reviews of the financial and commercial arrangements of any transaction requiring the approval of the Independent Directors of the Company under the Relationship Agreement.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee may be found on the Companys website www.
Financial Reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the 2010 interim financial results before recommending them to the Board for approval, likewise it has reviewed the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts and associated preliminary results announcement before recommending their approval by the Board.
As part of these reviews, the Audit Committee reviewed the accounting policies, the clarity of disclosure, compliance with the listing Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules of the london Stock Exchange and other legal and regulatory requirements and all material information presented in the interim financial results and the Financial Statements.
External Auditor The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditors and reviewed the terms of engagement of Ernst & Young llP, the external auditor and approved audit plans and timescales prior to the year-end audit.
As part of its review of the financial statements prepared by the Company, the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external auditor, reviewed management representation letters and considered recommendations made by the external auditor in the course of their work.
During the year, the Audit Committee has noted an increasing level of collaboration between Ernst & Young llP and the Companys Internal Audit Department in order to improve the respective efficiency of the external and internal audit processes.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 95 The Audit Committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, the independence of Ernst & Young llP as the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has a policy in place in respect of the provision of non-audit services to the Fresnillo Group by the external auditor.
The engagement of the external auditor to provide statutory audit, assurance, taxation and certain advisory services is pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external auditor to provide permitted services above US$150,000 is subject to the specific approval of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the re-appointment of the external auditor, Ernst & Young llP, prior to the Companys annual general meeting, taking into account the results of the auditor assessment process, the quality of the work and communication by the external auditor and the level of audit fees.
The Audit Committee considers that the rotation of the audit partner in line with ICAEW guidelines is appropriate.
The Audit Committee also periodically considers the need to invite tenders for the external audit.
Details of the fees paid to Ernst & Young llP during the year are shown in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
The effectiveness of the external auditor was reviewed prior to the Board proposing their re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Group has in place internal controls and risk management systems in relation to the Groups financial reporting system process and the Groups process for preparing consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to ensure that adequate accounting records are maintained and transactions are recorded accurately and fairly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, which includes risk management, and reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, the Companys system is designed to meet its particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
It is designed to manage risk rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee its responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control on an annual basis.
The day to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported in this task by the Internal Audit Department.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group has been established in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance and is described more fully on page 22.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups major risks and uncertainties prior to publication of the interim and annual financial statements.
Based on the risk categories set out in the risk matrix, the Audit Committee, through the Internal Audit Department, has sought letters of representation from the Executive Committee and the executive management on the Groups system of internal control.
There are a number of components to the system of internal controls within the Company detailed below and assurance concerning the system of internal controls focuses on these components: Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 96 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued compoNeNt of the SyStem of iNterNAl coNtrol BASiS for ASSurANce The Group risk matrix Updated twice a year by the Executive Committee and Internal Audit Department A framework of transaction and entity level Reviews undertaken by the Internal Audit Department controls to prevent and detect material error and loss A documented structure of delegated authorities Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit Department and approvals for transaction and investment decisions, including any with related parties Operating policies and procedures Annual written representations obtained from operational and functional management A budget with periodic reporting Review process performed by the Executive Committee Controls and procedures set out in the Companys Monitored and reviewed by the Internal Audit Department Accounting Policies and Procedures Manual A programme of internal audit reviews conducted Reports prepared by the Internal Audit Department are by the Groups Internal Audit Department discussed with management prior to finalisation and reviewed by the Audit Committee The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls taking account of the matters noted above.
On the basis of this review, the Board considers that the measures that have been implemented to create an appropriate risk management framework are appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board and the Audit Committee have received and approved plans presented by management setting out a number of improvements to the internal control environment to take account of the expansion of the Groups activities in exploration and mine development.
These initiatives are being included in the development of related embedded risk management and assurance processes.
The Board is committed to the continued development of its interfinal control regime with a view to achieving and maintaining best practice levels of risk management and internal control for international mining companies listed on the london Stock Exchange.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee has received presentations and updates from the Group Internal Audit Department throughout the year concerning their workplan for the year.
A workplan for 2011-12 has also been presented and approved by the Audit Committee.
Regular update reports on the internal audit reviews conducted by the Internal Audit Department are also received by the Audit Committee.
Where necessary, the Audit Committee will seek assurance that any serious weaknesses have been addressed.
During the year, the Audit Committee has been briefed on internal audits conducted during that period and it is satisfied that the actions agreed between management and Internal Audit are appropriate and have been implemented.
Whistleblowing Arrangements The Fresnillo Group strives to fight corruption and promote ethical business behaviour among all of its stakeholders.
The Board is in the process of reviewing the Groups policies in light of evolving anti-corruption legislation, including a review of the Code of Conduct, to which every employee must reaffirm adherence each year.
The Fresnillo Group shares this Code with shareholders, clients, suppliers and community leaders and hold everyone accountable for the processes in which they participate.
The Fresnillo Plays Fair whistleblower hotline allows stakeholders to anonymously report violations to the Code of Conduct.
The results are audited by an independent third party and classified in 25 different categories: high-risk conditions, violence, fraud, inappropriate use of confidential information, accounting irregularities, conflict of interest, client complaints, theft, unethical treatment of clients, unethical treatment of suppliers, discrimination, falsification of company records, improper use of assets, bribery and sexual harassment, among others.
An Honour Commission, comprised of the Chief Executive, Chief Financial OfGROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 97 ficer and vice President of Operations adjudicates any complaints filed.
Four reports were received on the hotline in 2010.
The Honour Commission asked for corrective actions in two cases and the other two were declared not applicable.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing these arrangements which it did at its meeting in December 2010 and it is satisfied with the adequacy of those arrangements.
Transactions with Related Parties The Audit Committee reviews the financial and commercial aspects of any transaction proposed between the Fresnillo Group and the Peoles Group prior to such matters being considered by the Independent Nonexecutive Directors under the terms of the Relationship Agreement or in compliance with Chapter 11 of the listing Rules.
During the year, the Audit Committee has considered the proposed charges in respect of the Met-Mex Arrangements for 2010 and the terms on which some minor exploration licences were transferred from Peoles to Fresnillo during the year.
The Audit Committee also reviews a schedule of the Companys related party transactions once a year.
HSECR COMMITTEE REPORT Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR System The Group develops, executes and monitors a broad range of policies and practices related to health, safety, sustainability and corporate social responsibility through its Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations System.
At the Board level, the Health, Safety, Environment and Community Relations HSECR Committee is responsible for formulating and recommending HSECR policies to the full Board, reviewing managements investigation of incidents or accidents, and evaluating the results of the Groups independent performance audits and action plans.
The members of the HSECR Committee are Rafael MacGregor Chairman of the Committee, Javier Fernndez and Jaime lomeln.
The terms of reference of the HSECR Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
Full details of the performance of the Company in matters of corporate and social responsibility and the activity of the HSECR Committee during the year are set out in the Sustainable Development Report on pages 56-69.
HOW THE BOARd MANAGES ITS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLdERS The Company has an office in london where the Head of Investor Relations is based.
The Group has implemented a strong investor relations programme and aims to meet major shareholders and analysts at least twice a year to discuss the results of the Group and to respond to any queries the shareholders may have.
The Head of Investor Relations in london maintains ongoing relations with analysts and major shareholders through telephone calls and meetings.
The Company also uses a full programme of mining conferences to meet with current and prospective investors.
Contact with investors in Mexico is maintained through the Investor Relations Office in Mexico City.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer participate in the major roadshows to meet with analysts and shareholders.
The Head of Investor Relations, supported by the Chief Executive Officer, gives a report at each Board meeting on communications and shareholder activity.
The Companys third annual general meeting will be held on Wednesday 17 May 2011.
The business of the Annual General Meeting will be conducted in accordance with the provisions D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 of the Code.
The Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of each of the board committees will be available to answer questions put forward to them by shareholders of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the date of the meeting.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 98 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued HOW THE BOARd MAINTAINS INdEPENdENCE Board Balance and Independence The composition of the Board and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Director and the Senior Independent Director have been structured to ensure that no one individual can dominate the decision-making processes of the Board.
The separate roles of Chairman and of the Chief Executive Officer are recognised and the requirements for these roles have been specified in writing and agreed by the Board.
There have been no changes to these roles since they were agreed by the Board.
Mr Baillres is also the Chairman of Peoles and other companies within the BAl Group.
As Senior Independent Director, lord Cairns is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Head of Investor Relations.
Alberto Baillres, Rafael MacGregor, Juan Bordes and Arturo Fernndez are each directors of Peoles and have been appointed to the Board by Peoles pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Thus, the Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
However, Mr Baillres has been responsible for overseeing the successful development of the Fresnillo Group over many years and therefore the Board considers that his continued involvement as its non-executive chairman is very important to the Company.
Furthermore, a transparent governance system has been established, primarily through the Relationship Agreement, which ensures that the Company benefits from Mr Baillres leadership and experience whilst being able to demonstrate to other shareholders that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently.
In particular, the Relationship Agreement ensures that transactions and relationships between the Fresnillo Group and its major shareholder are at arms length and on competitive commercial terms.
Fernando Ruiz is a retired partner and consultant in the firm Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. a firm providing professional services to the Company.
Mr Ruiz is not involved in providing any services to the Company on behalf of Chevez, Ruiz, Zamarripa y Cia.
S. C. the value of those services is not material to either party.
Guy Wilson retired as a partner of Ernst & Young llP, the Companys auditors on 30 June 2008.
Mr Wilson was not involved in the provision of audit or any other services to the Company by Ernst & Young llP prior to his retirement.
The Board considers lord Cairns, Fernando Ruiz, Fernando Solana, Javier Fernndez and Guy Wilson to be independent.
Relationship Agreement On 8 May 2008, Peoles and the Company entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Peoles.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Fresnillo Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of the Peoles Group, and that transactions and relationships with the Peoles Group are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Peoles has also undertaken not to exercise its voting rights to amend the Memorandum and Articles of Association in a way which would be inconsistent with the provisions of the agreement.
It has also agreed to abstain from voting on any resolution to approve a related party transaction as defined in paragraph 11.1.
5 R of the listing Rules involving any member of the Peoles Group.
Since the IPO the Board has refined the process by which transactions between Peoles and the Company are approved and the approach taken to ensure that the Relationship Agreement is fully implemented.
The key elements of this process are: GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 99 Governance of Transactions with Peoles proceSS reSpoNSiBility contract Negotiation fresnillo management exco industry benchmark reports or independent verification valuation assessment financial Scrutiny Audit committee review independent directors approve under the Board Approval relationship Agreement Conflicts of Interests The duty to avoid potential conflicts and to disclose such situations for authorisation by the Board are the personal responsibility of each Director.
Each Director ensures that they keep these duties under review and inform the Company Secretary on an ongoing basis of any change in their respective positions, such as new directorships taken on.
Each Director has completed a Directors list which set out details of situations where each directors interests may conflict with those of the Company situational conflicts.
The Directors lists have been resubmitted by each Director as at 30 June 2010 and 31 December 2010 and the Board has considered and authorised new situational conflicts identified in these resubmitted lists.
In addition, Directors are reminded at the beginning of each Board meeting to notify the Board of any further conflicts to the Board.
lord cairns SeNior iNdepeNdeNt director oN BehAlf of the BoArd 28 February 2011 Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report
