G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Corporate governance statement The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June2008 the Combined Code which is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website http: www.
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the codes main principles, and to confi rm that they comply with the codes provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide a careful and clear explanation of their non-compliance which aims to illustrate how their actual practices areconsistent with the codes principles and contribute to good governance.
a Application of Combined Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, a non-executive deputy chairman Lord Condon, fi five other non-executive directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief fi financial offi cer Trevor Dighton and the chief operating offi cer Grahame Gibson.
The board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent.
The senior independent director is Lord Condon.
The companys articles of association require that all continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and that they submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and that at least one third of the directors not standingfor election for the fi first time stand for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
However, in accordance with the code provision on re-election of directors in the UK Corporate Governance Code which replaces the Combined Code and will apply to the companys Annual General Meeting in2011, allthe directors will stand for election or re-election at that meeting.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Mark Seligman chairman Lord Condon Winnie Fok joined October 2010 Bo Lerenius Remuneration Committee Lord Condon chairman Mark Elliott Bo Lerenius Mark Seligman Clare Spottiswoode joined June 2010 Nomination Committee Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman Lord Condon Mark Elliott Mr Seligman is the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant fi financial experience.
Thorleif Krarup was a member of the Audit Committee throughout the year to 31 December 2010 and until his retirement from the board on 31 January 2011.
Winnie Fok joined the Audit Committee on1October 2010.
Clare Spottiswoode joined the Remuneration Committee on 14 June 2010.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the companys website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting which is an important opportunity for communication between the board and shareholders, particularly private shareholders.
Following each resolution at the Annual General Meeting, the meeting is informed of the numbers of proxy votes cast and the same information is subsequently published on the companys website.
There were eight board meetings during the year ended 31 December 2010.
One of the meetings was also an extended board and strategy session at which presentations on development and implementation of the companys strategy were made to the board by senior executives.
One of the board meetings was held in Hong Kong to enable the board to have greater interaction with some of the groups businesses in Asia.
All members attended each of the board meetings except that Messrs Elliott, Krarup and Seligman were each absent from one meeting and Ms Spottiswoode was absent from two her inability toattend such meetings having been advised at the time of her appointment.
Some non-executive directors also attended meetings and conferences held byvarious regions and business units in order to gain a closer understanding of the group.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief fi financial offi cer and the company secretary, an HR report which includes summaries of developments on HR and health and safety matters and an investor relations report which includes analysts reviews and any comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
After meetings of the board committees, the respective committee chairmen report tothe board on the matters considered by each committee.
In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are seven board meetings scheduled for the current year, including an extended, two-day, strategy review session.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which is set out under twelve separate categories: strategy and management: structure and capital:fi financial reporting and controls: internal controls: contracts: communication: board membership and other appointments: remuneration: delegation ofauthority: corporate governance matters: policies: and other.
By way of example, board approval is required for major investments, including the acquisition or disposal of any business worth more than 5m: any changes to the groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: and the annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
Shareholder information Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview 60 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate governance statement continued a Application of Combined Code principles continued Each of the directors has disclosed to the board any situations which apply to them as a result of which they have or may have an interest which confl icts ormay confl ict with the interests of the company.
In accordance with the companys articles of association, the board has authorised such matters.
Theaffected directors did not vote when their own positions were considered.
Where the board deemed it appropriate, such authorisation was given subject to certain conditions.
The board reviews such matters on a regular basis.
In the year under review, the Audit Committee met four times, the Remuneration Committee met six times and the Nomination Committee met twice.
Allmembers attended each of the meetings except that Ms Spottiswoode and Mr Lerenius were each absent from one meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
The performance of the board and its committees has been evaluated using a questionnaire-based self assessment process which was introduced and informed by the external consultancy which conducted an evaluation of the performance of the board and the boards committees in 2008.
In addition, the chairman held individual meetings with directors to discuss their performance and their view of the board as a whole.
Reports generated by this process have been considered by the board, the chairman and by each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and a number of actions have been agreed as a means of improving performance.
As a result, the board will have greater interaction with the groups businesses and customers, there willbemore detailed feedback to the board from investor contacts and board strategy sessions will be facilitated so as to maximise non-executive director involvement.
The Remuneration Committee concluded that its members should undertake external training courses where appropriate and the Audit Committee is to benchmark its performance against other companies audit committees and recommended best practice.
The chairman held meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present and a review of the performance of the chairman by the non-executive directors, without the chairman present, was led by the senior independent director.
The chief executive and the chief fi financial offi cer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and fi financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
It is intended that all the directors will attend the companys Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for making recommendations on board appointments and on maintaining a balance of skills and experience onthe board and its committees.
Last year it considered the skill sets of the existing directors and compared them with what would be the ideal skills and experience of the board in order to draw up a specifi cation for new non-executive directors.
External search consultants were then engaged to seek out candidates who met these requirements and, as a result, two new board members were appointed.
Both the committee and the board itself have given consideration to the succession planning process for the groups senior executives.
Audit Committee meetings are attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief fi financial offi cer, the group fi financial controller, the head of groupinternal audit and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and half-yearly fi financial statements and any questions raised bytheauditor on the fi financial statements and fi financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, the groups fi financial reporting and internal auditing processes, whistle-blowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has recommended that the board reappoints the existing external auditor having reviewed its performance of audit services for thecompany, reports on the performance of the fi rm as a whole, its independence given the non-audit services it provides to the group and its policy andpractice on audit partner rotation, as well as the cost of its services.
The committee will keep the matter of the choice of external auditor under review atregular intervals.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultation and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefi t plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on fi financial reporting standards and corporate tax services.
The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specifi c permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major transformation deal.
Theauditor has written to the Audit Committee confi rming that, in its opinion, it is independent and that it complies with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards.
The Audit Committees existing policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services is to be reviewed in the light of the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the Financial Reporting Council published in December 2010.
Details of the fees paid to the auditor for audit services, audit-related services and other non-audit services is provided in note 10 to the consolidated fi financial statements on page 86.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is more fully described in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on pages 62 to 66. b Compliance with provisions of Combined Code The company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
c Risk management and internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to managerather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of group internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present signifi cant exposure.
G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 c Risk management and internal control continued The key features of the groups risk management process, which was in place throughout the year under review and since, are: k A common risk management framework is used to provide a profi le of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
k Each signifi cant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk profi les ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
k Risk management committees have been established at regional, divisional and group level.
The regional and divisional committees meet at least annually and the group committee meets quarterly.
A standard agenda covering risk and control issues is considered at each meeting and risk profi les arereviewed and updated at each meeting.
k Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken for each operating company, for most companies at least twice a year, and updated risk profi les are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The results of the company risk evaluations areassessed by the regional and divisional risk management committees.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board in accordance with the internal control guidance for directors in the Combined Code, is carried out under the overall supervision of the group risk management committee.
This committee, which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief fi financial offi cer.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the divisional and regional risk management committees and the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defi ned reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third-party reviews, company fi financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistle-blowing activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The group has in place robust internal control and risk management systems for fi financial reporting.
The group has a single global consolidation system which is used for both internal management reporting, budgeting and planning as well as external reporting.
The group has a comprehensive budgeting process withthe budget being approved by the board.
Forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results at business unit, region division and group level arereported monthly and variances are reviewed.
A programme of business internal fi financial reviews is performed by a fi finance team from either region division orgroup to check the accuracy of fi financial reporting and compliance with the group fi finance manual.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2010 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2010.
By order of the board Peter David Secretary 14 March 2011 Because Wackenhut Services, Inc. WSI is governed through a proxy agreement under which the group is excluded from access to operational information, it is not subject to the same risk management process as is applied to other group companies.
The board has however satisfi ed itself as to the adequacy of the internal control processes adopted by WSI which include a risk review byanexternal advisor.
Shareholder information Financial Statements Governance Business review Overview
