The GAME Group plc 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Corporate governance statement Corporate governance Biographies of Board members appear on There is a commitment to high standards of page 53.
These indicate the seniority and range corporate governance throughout the Group.
of business experience, which are essential to The Board confirms that the Company and the manage effectively a business of the size and Group have complied during the year ended complexity of the Group.
31 January 2010 with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate The full Board meets at least six times each year Governance issued in June 2008 the Combined and more frequently where business needs Code, except as detailed below.
The Board has a schedule of matters Combined Code is available at the Financial reserved for its decision, including inter alia Reporting Councils website www.
statutory matters: approval of financial statements and dividends: appointments and The Board notes that the Chairman has been a terminations of Directors, officers and auditors: Director for more than nine years but considers appointments of committees and setting of that Peter Lewis makes a significant contribution terms of reference: review and approval of to the Company and that his period of office Group performance against budgets: approving does not impair his independence.
In risk management strategy and material accordance with Code provision A.
7.2, contracts: and determining of authority levels Peter Lewis will stand for re-election at the within which management is required to operate.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to The Board is accountable to the Companys take independent professional advice at the shareholders for good governance and the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the statements set out below describe how the access which every Director has to the principles identified in the Combined Code are Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is applied by the Group.
charged by the Board with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The minutes of all The information required by the Disclosure and meetings of the Board and each committee are Transparency Rule DTR 7.1 is set out in the taken by the Company Secretary who ensures Audit Committee section on page 56.
The that any unresolved concerns of the Directors information required by DTR7.2 is contained in are recorded in the minutes.
this Corporate Governance Statement other than that required by DTR7.2.
6 which is set out in Appropriate Directors and Officers insurance the Directors Report at page 59. cover is arranged and maintained via the Companys insurance broker, Aon Group, and Directors its terms are reviewed annually.
During the year, the Board consisted of a Non Executive Chairman, Peter Lewis, four other Non When new members are appointed to the Executive Directors and three Executive Directors, Board, they are provided with advice from the of which Lisa Morgan was Group Chief Executive.
Company Secretary and external advisers in All of the Non Executive Directors are considered respect of their role and duties as a public by the Board to be independent of company director.
management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of During the year Christopher Bell was the Senior their independent judgement.
There is a clear Non Executive Director.
Since the year end, on division of responsibility between the Chairman 21 April 2010, Ishbel Macpherson has taken on and the Chief Executive.
Since the year end, on this role whilst Christopher Bell serves as acting 21 April 2010, Lisa Morgan and Terry Scicluna Chief Executive.
Concerns relating to the resigned their positions as directors of the executive management of the Company or Company.
Christopher Bell is temporarily acting the performance of the other Non Executive as Chief Executive with effect from 21 April 2010 Directors may be raised with the Senior Non until a successor to Lisa Morgan is identified.
The Senior Non Executive Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 55 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Director is also available to shareholders if they a potential appointee.
The members of the Audit, have concerns which contact through the Remuneration and Nomination Committees are normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive set out on page 56. or Finance Director have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Any Director appointed during the year is Non Executive Director also makes themself required, under the provisions of the Companys available to listen to the concerns of employees.
Articles of Association, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual To enable the Board to function effectively and General Meeting.
The Articles also require that the Directors to discharge their responsibilities, one-third of the Directors retire by rotation each full and timely access is given to all relevant year and seek re-election at the Annual information.
In the case of Board meetings, General Meeting.
The Directors required to retire this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, are those in office longest since their previous including regular business progress reports and re-election, and each Director retires at least discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Appointments to the Board Full details of Directors remuneration and a The Board ensures that plans are in place for the statement of the Companys remuneration orderly succession of appointments to the Board policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration and to senior management: taking into account Report appearing on pages 64 to 71.
The the need to maintain an appropriate balance of members of the Remuneration Committee and skills.
Appointments to the Board of both the principal terms of reference of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are Committee appear on page 56. considered by the Nomination Committee.
The recommendations of the Nomination Meetings with Non-Executive Directors Committee are ultimately made to the full Board, The Chairman holds meetings as required with which considers them before any appointment is the Non-Executive Directors without the made.
The Remuneration Committee considers Executive Directors being present.
any remuneration package before it is offered to Individual attendance by Directors at meetings of the Board and of other Committees Meetings held from 1 February 2009 to 31 January 2010 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible to Number Eligible to Number Eligible to Number Eligible to Number Director Attend Attended Attend Attended Attend Attended Attend Attended Peter Lewis 7 7 2 2 Lisa Morgan 7 7 Terry Scicluna 7 6 Ben White 7 7 Christopher Bell 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Jean-Paul Giraud 7 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 Ishbel Macpherson 7 7 3 3 2 2 2 2 Dennis Woodside 7 3 3 2 1 2 GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Corporate governance statement continued Board performance evaluation the Committee ensures that meetings are used In accordance with the requirements of the as an open avenue of communication between Combined Code, during the year the Board the external auditors and the Board.
undertook a formal internal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees Following a recommendation from the Audit and individual Directors.
This review was led by Committee, the Board has adopted a policy in the Senior Non Executive Director and included relation to the provision of non-audit services by an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
the auditors, with the objective of ensuring that A further review will be conducted during the the provision of such services does not impair current financial year.
the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This includes, inter alia, assessing all Audit Committee relationships with the audit firm, including their The Audit Committee comprises Ishbel partners and staff: assessing the nature and Macpherson as Chairman, together with level of fees for non-audit services in relation to Christopher Bell, Dana Dunne and David the audit fee: obtaining confirmation of Mansfield.
The Board is satisfied that the independence from the auditors: and ensuring composition of the Audit Committee adheres to the appropriateness of the firm as providers for the requirements that it should comprise at least non-audit services.
three independent non-executive directors and that at least one member of the Audit The split between audit and non-audit fees for Committee must have recent and relevant the year under review is disclosed in Note 4 to financial experience.
The non-audit fees were principally paid in respect of tax The terms of reference of the Audit Committee compliance services and are considered by the are available on request and are published on Audit Committee not to affect the auditors the Companys website.
The Audit Committees main objectives are, inter Remuneration Committee alia, to monitor the integrity of the Companys The Remuneration Committee comprises financial statements and any other formal Ishbel Macpherson as Chairman, together with announcements relating to the Companys Christopher Bell, Dana Dunne and David financial performance: review significant Mansfield.
The work of the Remuneration financial reporting judgements contained in Committee is covered further in the Directors such statements or announcements, before Remuneration Report on pages 64 to 71. submission to, and approval by, the Board, and before clearance by the external auditors: Copies of Executive Directors service contracts review the Companys internal financial controls and the terms and conditions of appointment and risk management systems: monitor and of the Non-Executive Directors are available for review the effectiveness of the Companys inspection at the Companys office during internal audit function: and review the normal business hours.
arrangements by which employees of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns The terms of reference of the Remuneration about possible improprieties in matters of Committee are available on request and are financial reporting or other matters.
also published on the Companys website.
The Committee also reviews any matters raised Nomination Committee by the auditors.
The Chief Executive and the The Nomination Committee comprises Peter Finance Director are invited to attend part of Lewis as Chairman, together with Christopher each meeting of this Committee, as are the Bell, Ishbel Macpherson, Dana Dunne and David auditors.
The auditors have unrestricted access Mansfield.
to the members of the Audit Committee, and Directors and Governance The GAME Group plc 57 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 It meets as required and makes controls and indirect controls have been recommendations to the Board on all Board assessed.
This risk matrix is reviewed and and Committee appointments, including the updated on a regular basis.
selection of Non Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are The key procedures that the Directors have available on request and are also published on established to ensure that internal controls are the Companys website.
effective are commensurate with a group of this size, a key control procedure being the day-toAudit and internal control day supervision of the business by the Directors.
The respective responsibilities of the Directors Other internal control procedures and reviews and the auditors in connection with the Annual for effectiveness by the Board include the Report and Accounts are explained on pages following: 62 and 72 respectively and the statement of preparation, maintenance and review of a the Directors on going concern appears on Group risk register: page 58. review of financial, operational and compliance reports from management: and Following the publication of guidance for Directors, Internal Control: Guidance for review of any significant issues arising from the Directors on the Combined Code, the Board internal and external audits.
confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any The Group has an internal audit function which significant risks faced by the Group.
This process focuses primarily on the control of cash and has been in place during the period ended stock losses.
The Audit Committee consider the 31 January 2010 and up to the date of approval focus of the function to be appropriate for the of the accompanying Report and Accounts by business and operations of the Group.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull The Audit Committee keeps the scope and Guidance on Internal Control.
cost-effectiveness of the external audit under review.
The independence and objectivity of The Board of Directors acknowledges its the external auditors is also considered on a responsibility for the Companys system of regular basis, with particular regard to the level internal control and for reviewing its of non-audit fees.
The split between audit and effectiveness over financial, operating and risk non-audit fees for the year under review management controls.
The system of internal appears in Note 4 to the financial statements.
control is designed to manage rather than The non-audit fees were principally paid in eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business respect of tax compliance services and are objectives and can only provide reasonable considered by the Committee not to affect the but not absolute assurance against material auditors independence or objectivity.
Communication with shareholders The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the The Company attaches importance to the system of internal control during the year by effectiveness of its communications with reference to budgets, management accounts, shareholders.
It publishes regular trading cash flow projections and reports from the statements as well as a full Annual Report.
The internal and external auditors, and covers Company maintains a regular dialogue with financial, operational and compliance controls institutional shareholders and the financial and risk management systems.
This includes presentations of the preliminary and interim results, regular meetings The risks facing the Group in each country of with major shareholders, participation in operation have been identified and the stockbrokers seminars and site visits.
The Group appropriateness of the associated direct holds a variety of investor and analyst meetings GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 58 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Corporate governance statement continued in order to improve the financial communitys understanding of the Group and to introduce investors to a broader range of management.
All shareholders can gain access to these and other presentations, as well as to the Annual Report and other information about the Group, on the Groups website at www.
Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the Company highlights key business developments during the year and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer any questions from shareholders on the work of their committees.
The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with shareholders rests with the executive management team led by the Chief Executive.
However, the Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, including share price performance, the composition of the shareholder register and City expectations.
Independent research is commissioned annually into institutional shareholder perceptions of the Group.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors make themselves available to meet with shareholders as required.
Going concern The Directors have reviewed the financial position of the Group and of the Company and have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
