Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 19 Analysis of Performance by Species Goodwill has been restated to recognise separately the deferred tax asset in relation to the historic acquisition of intangible assets by Actual Currency Constant Currency Sygen prior to its acquisition by Genus, further details of which can 2010 2009 Movement Movement m m % % be found in note 2.
This restatement has had no effect on earnings, profits, cash flows or shareholders equity.
Revenue Bovine 145.9 140.3 4 1 Earnings per Share Porcine 133.8 135.8 2 4 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations were up 52% to 46.3 pence in the year ended 30 June 2010 2009: 30.4 pence, Research and reflecting the higher credit in respect of biological assets under Development 5.6 4.3 IAS 41 and the exceptional pension curtailment gain.
Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations rose by 2% to Total 285.3 280.4 2 1 36.7 pence 2009: 36.1 pence.
KPI Performance Adjusted Operating Profit Performance measured against the Groups key performance Bovine 18.9 17.8 6 2 indicators is set out on pages 10 to 11.
Porcine 31.3 30.8 2 2 Dividend Unallocated 10.3 10.5 The Board is recommending to shareholders a 10% increase in the dividend to 12.1 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder Total 39.9 38.1 5 3 approval at Genus forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this dividend will be paid on 7 January 2011 to shareholders on the Bovine revenues increased to 145.9m.
Volumes grew 7% but register at the close of business on 10 December 2010. average selling prices were slightly lower as a result of competitor pressure and customers trading down in response to the difficult Dividend cover remains strong with the dividend covered 3.0 times market, especially in the US.
Profitability improved benefiting from by adjusted earnings 2009: 3.3 times.
growth in volumes and tight control of costs.
Biological Assets In Porcine, the fall in revenues occurred mainly in the US as The Group has a substantial investment in biological assets, held at customers deferred updating their genetics.
This was particularly fair values as required by IAS 41.
At 30 June 2010, the carrying value noticeable in the first half but sales in the last quarter were higher as of biological assets was 235.7m 2009: 202.8m as set out in the customers responded to the market recovery.
The impact on profits table below: was mitigated by the robustness of the royalty model and by cost 2010 2009 reductions resulting in porcine profitability improving in the year.
m m Non-current assets 175.5 153.9 Statutory Profit Before Tax Statutory profit before tax was 40.8m, up from 26.2m last year.
Current assets 37.0 28.0 Within this, operating profit before exceptional items increased by Inventory 23.2 20.9 10.6m to 44.2m 2009: 33.6m.
The increase is substantially higher than the increase in underlying profits as measured by Total 235.7 202.8 adjusted operating profit because of a larger credit in respect of the net IAS 41 valuation movement for biological assets.
This rose from 2.7m last year to 11.0m as the strength of the bull product range Represented by: together with higher volumes led to significant additions to the Porcine 82.3 76.0 carrying value of bovine biological assets.
Bovine 153.4 126.8 Finance Costs Total 235.7 202.8 Net finance costs, before exceptional items, increased by 1.1m to 9.3m 2009: 8.2m.
The increased bank margins and fees payable Exchange rate movements accounted for 19.3m of the increase in following the refinancing undertaken in February 2009 caused interest carrying value during the year including a 1.8m increase in respect costs to be higher in the first half of the year.
In addition, the net of inventory.
The remaining increase relates principally to growth in interest cost on pension liabilities rose as a result of the increased the carrying value of bovine biological assets and results from an pension deficit at June 2009 caused by low asset values at that time.
increase in the expected output together with higher individual bull values due to the improved quality of the stud.
This improvement is Exceptional Items demonstrated by the Groups strong position in external bull Exceptional items totalled a net credit of 2.8m compared with a rankings.
These increases in value are required by IAS 41 to be 1.4m charge last year.
The majority of the credit relates to a 2.5m reflected in the income statement.
This can result in volatility in curtailment gain arising from the closure of the main defined benefit reported profits that is not reflected in cash generated by the pension arrangements in the UK to all future accruals.
For this reason, the net IAS 41 valuation movement in there was a small release of provisions relating to integration and biological assets is excluded in the calculation of the adjusted profits restructuring items that were no longer required.
Adjusted operating profits are reported after charging all research and product development expenditure.
Taxation The effective rate of tax for the year, based on adjusted profit before tax, was 33.8% 2009: 33.4%.
The effective tax rate depends upon the mix of profits by country, particularly the proportion of profit generated in North America where the tax rate is approximately 40%, and the ability of the Group to recognise deferred tax assets in respect of losses in some of the Groups smaller territories.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 20 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review The Milk Pension Scheme, a multi-employer scheme, is undertaking its triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2009 and is in the Financial Review process of agreeing revised deficit funding contributions with its participating employers.
As a result, Genus expects its annual deficit contributions to increase by approximately 1.5m to 2.0m under continued this and its other defined benefit pension schemes.
Treasury Cash Flow The Group has a centralised treasury function to manage foreign 2010 2009 m m exchange and interest rate risk following guidelines laid down by the Board.
Derivative instruments are used solely to mitigate risks.
Cash generated by operations 40.5 28.2 Interest, tax and dividends 20.5 20.0 The main risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and liquidity risk.
The Board Capital investments 9.1 15.5 reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
Other 2.0 3.5 Interest Rate Risk Net cash inflow outflow 12.9 3.8 Interest rate swaps are used to generate the desired interest profile and to manage exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
The Cash generated from operations increased in the year to 40.5m Groups policy is that a minimum of 60% of the Groups 2009: 28.2m benefiting from improved profits and tight borrowings should be fixed for periods in excess of 1 year up to a management of working capital.
At 30 June 2010, 85% 2009: 88% of the Group borrowings were at fixed rates.
Capital investment in the year of 9.1m was lower than last years 15.5m but remained above the level of depreciation as the Group The fair value of the interest rate swaps used to provide the completed its investment in extending capacity to meet projected required level of hedging at 30 June 2010 was a net liability of future growth.
In particular, the final 2.2m was spent on completing 2.1m 2009: 2.4m.
the new porcine genetic nucleus herd facility in South Dakota and 1.1m on the acquisition of the Powerline Genetics beef business.
Foreign Currency Risk The Group is exposed to two principal types of foreign currency As a result of the strong cash generated by operations and lower risk: transaction risk and translation risk.
Transactional exposures capital investment, there was a net cash inflow for the year of arise from operating units selling and or purchasing goods and 12.9m 2009: outflow of 3.8m.
services in currencies other than their reporting currency.
Where these exposures are large or other than short-term, they are Capital Structure hedged by the use of forward contracts.
The Group has a policy Shareholders funds rose during the year to 251.5m at 30 June to settle inter-company trading balances on a monthly basis to 2010, an increase of 46.9m.
Exchange rate movements accounted minimise foreign currency exposure.
The remaining increase relates almost entirely to retained profits.
Translation exposure arises on the retranslation of overseas subsidiary companies profits and net assets into Sterling for Net borrowings, excluding certain financial derivatives, reduced by financial reporting purposes.
Overseas trading is mainly US 8.0m to 80.0m from 88.0m last year.
This was due to the cash Dollar linked and to a lesser extent Euro.
Exposures arising from inflow for the year offset, in part, by the impact of exchange rate the translation of overseas profits are not hedged.
Translation movements on the element of borrowings denominated in US Dollars.
exposures in respect of the net assets in overseas countries are The Groups financial derivatives include a currency swap entered into managed by maintaining a percentage of net debt in overseas in 2006 that had the effect of exchanging 35m of debt for US$66.2m currencies to mitigate the effect of currency fluctuations.
This instrument matures in January 2011 and at 30 June 2010 achieved by either borrowing in the relevant currency or entering was a liability of 9.6m 2009: 5.7m.
Taking this into account, net into long-term currency swaps.
debt at 30 June 2010 was 89.6m down from 93.7m last year.
At 30 June 2010, gross debt was held in the following currencies: The Groups financial ratios remained strong.
Gearing reduced from US Dollars 78% 2009: 73%, Euros 10% 2009: 10%, Sterling 12% 43% to 32% and interest cover improved.
Interest cover, based on 2009: 17%, after taking into account long-term currency swaps.
net interest payable excluding the net interest cost on pension liabilities improved to 6.3 times 2009: 6.1 times.
Liquidity Risk The Groups objective is to ensure the Group has committed Retirement Benefit Obligations facilities with sufficient headroom to finance its funding The Groups retirement benefit obligations at 30 June 2010, calculated in requirements for the foreseeable future.
At the year end, the accordance with IAS 19, was 28.8m 2009: 35.4m before tax and Group had undrawn committed facilities of 53.1m and held cash 20.3m 2009: 25.3m net of related deferred tax.
The reduction in the and cash equivalents of 18.1m 2009: 20.6m.
obligations in the year arose mainly from a lower deficit in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme operated as part of the Milk Pension The Groups facilities extend to February 2012 and the Group Fund, a multi-employer scheme.
This deficit fell from 27.7m to 20.3m remains comfortably within its covenant headroom.
primarily due to a higher than expected return on the scheme assets, offset in part by strengthened mortality assumptions.
As part of the management of the pension risk, steps were taken during the year to close the scheme to all future service accrual.
The consequential change in assumptions following closure resulted in a 2.5m reduction in pension obligations, reported as an exceptional credit in the income statement.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21 Business Review Genus operates a structured risk management system which identifies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties and Principal Risks and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
Details of the risk management system can be found in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Genus has continued to enhance the Groups risk Uncertainties management during the year by each of the regional businesses conducting externally facilitated risk management workshops, the results of which were reviewed by the Companys Board of Directors.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing Genus that could impact its performance together with actions that are taken by Genus to mitigate their impact on the Company are as follows: Key Risks Mitigating Actions Aggregating the risks that are contained in The following actions are taken by the Company to mitigate the likelihood and impact of the the Genus Group risk register, the following key individual risks identified in the Genus Group risk register: key risks apply to the Company: Markets Key Individual Risks Achieving growth in developing countries Development of local genetic facilities with regional partners Availability of superior product both locally produced and imported Extensive supply and distributor network Sustaining growth in developed countries Effective research programme maintaining product lead Appropriate Company business structures in mature markets Ensuring the availability of market leading product and world leading technical services IPR protection Ensuring all available legal and contractual protections apply to the Companys intellectual property Disease & Environment Key Individual Risks Ensuring continuity of supply worldwide Business continuity programmes in the event of a disease outbreak, World class animal care practices and strict bio-security systems environment incident or a border closure Dispersed and remote herd locations outside our control Comprehensive staff training Pro-active environmental management Use of extensive environmental protocols Use of in-country local production Application of porcine multiplier model HR Key Individual Risks Ensuring continuity of key staff Effective succession planning, development and training programmes Competitive retention and incentive packages Management of emerging markets Dedicated in-country regional management Health & safety Comprehensive staff training Monitored compliance with legislation Risk assessment and safety audits Research & Product Development Effectiveness Key Individual Risks Maintaining commercial focus Ensuring optimum liaison between regional management teams as to market needs Product development and competitive edge Alignment of research investment with commercial needs Diversified product portfolio Focusing research projects to deliver benefits, Dedicated research project teams e. g. sexed semen project Strong relationships with technology partners Finance Key Individual Risks Pensions Agreement of appropriate recovery and other plans with pension fund trustees Review of investment strategy Review of pension benefits provisions Monitoring of joint and several liability in the Milk Pension Fund Currency Fluctuations Forecasting currency requirements Hedging and foreign exchange policies Central treasury reviews Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 22 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review Sustainability in World Agriculture Genus plays a key part in the worlds agricultural economy and delivers Corporate Social many benefits to global society.
Genus unique position in the supply of superior natural animal genetics enables the worlds farmers and food producers to ensure the supply of quality products with increasing Responsibility output at improved production efficiencies.
In the context of an ever increasing world population and decreasing resources available for food production, Genus plays an increasingly important social and economic role in the efficient production of quality foods.
Genus is committed to the highest standards of corporate and individual behaviour and actively considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of the Groups activities, wherever it operates in the world.
By acting with the highest standards of business conduct, Genus earns the trust of its customers, shareholders, colleagues, suppliers, regulators and the communities in which Genus operates.
Maintaining these standards is vital to the continued success and development of the Group.
All companies in the Genus Group follow procedures that are compliant with local laws and regulations and in many cases the Groups procedures exceed local requirements.
The Genus Board has overall responsibility for corporate responsibility, assessing the needs of Genus stakeholders regularly, and delegates day to day management of corporate responsibility issues to the Companys Operating Board in In the context of an ever increasing world conjunction with regional management.
population and decreasing resources The Genus approach to corporate responsibility applies to the following available for food production, Genus plays key areas: the environment, our employees, health and safety, our stakeholder relationships and our community.
The Genus principles of an increasingly important social and corporate responsibility apply to all our employees and set the economic role in the efficient production minimum standard for their behaviour.
The Environment Genus recognises that concern for the environment is an essential part of its business operations and seeks to minimise risk to the environment by effective management of the Groups activities.
Genus is committed to conducting its business in a manner that is sensitive to the environmental needs of the communities in which we operate.
Our locations integrate environmental management into their operational systems and procedures: the monitoring and reporting on environmental performance is an integral part of the Groups operations and a key part of the Groups risk management programme.
Genus operates an active policy of environmental compliance requiring as a minimum compliance with the laws and regulations applicable to its business in each of the countries in which it operates.
In many cases the Groups compliance exceeds local requirements.
We assess environmental risks associated with existing and new facilities and establish controls to ensure that any risks remain at an acceptable level.
Employees at our facilities receive a high level of training in environmental compliance matters and comprehensive environmental protocols are in operation at our facilities.
Our Employees Genus places considerable value on the involvement of its employees.
Our staff play a vital role in building a sustainable business and their skills, qualities and wellbeing underpin the Companys success.
Genus employment policies respect the individual regardless of sex, age, race or religion.
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment from disabled people and the services of employees who become disabled are retained wherever possible.
Training, career development and promotion opportunities are provided throughout the Group, for example via the internet based Genus Global University.
Our training and development programmes are designed to equip employees with the necessary skills to enhance their careers and employees are actively encouraged to attain a broad understanding of the Groups businesses to give a strong base in the Companys culture and ethics.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward
