Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 23 The Group has a well established structure to communicate with employees at every level to encourage their involvement and interest in the Groups performance and future activities.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, internal communications, the Groups Genus World magazine and the Groups intranet.
We require all employees to act in an ethical manner both within the Group and in dealings with other organisations, and to comply with all applicable laws and Group policies.
Health and Safety Genus is committed to providing safe systems of work for its employees in all countries in which it operates and pro-actively monitors compliance with local regulations.
This commitment is supported by a comprehensive training regime for the Groups employees.
The monitoring and reporting on the Groups health and Genus is committed to the highest safety performance is an integral part of the Groups operations and standards of corporate and individual a key part of the Groups risk management programme.
behaviour and actively considers the Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace for our people economic, social and environmental requires effective management.
We operate a pro-active network of impacts of the Groups activities, health and safety personnel in our regional facilities that share knowledge and experience between facilities with the aim of wherever it operates in the world.
cross-fertilising best practice and ensuring consistently high standards of safety across the Group.
Our Stakeholder Relationships Customers Genus aims to provide products and services of the highest quality and technical standards appropriate to our customers own requirements.
At all times Genus takes all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and quality of the products and services that Genus provides, including compliance with all applicable regulatory requirements.
Suppliers Genus is committed to working with suppliers in mutually beneficial ways, and, so far as is practicable, requires that suppliers and contractors act in accordance with Genus values and policies.
Global University Our Community People are what have allowed Genus to achieve its success.
As a responsible member of the communities in which it operates, Allowing people to grow with Genus around the globe means Genus actively encourages its operating companies to positively that we are always looking for new ways to help people develop.
engage with the local community in their areas of operation and in all The Global University online training centre is an interactive, aspects of community relations.
At a Group level, the Company learning-based system that offers a wide variety of technical, sponsors the Farm Business Awards and the John Beckett Foundation, human relation, sales and process training courses.
This an organisation that provides business scholarships to young farmers.
provides Genus with the ability to provide leading industry knowledge in a timely manner to all of its people globally.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview 24 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 1.
John Worby 59 Chairman Group Finance Director John Hawkins joined the Board in June 2000 and was appointed John Worby joined the Board in September 2004 and was Chairman Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee in August of the Audit Committee until he became Group Finance Director in 2004.
He is Chairman of Psion plc.
He was formerly Chief Executive of February 2009.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Cranswick plc and Atex Group Limited and previously Chief Executive of Anite Group plc Smiths News plc, and was previously Deputy Chairman and Finance after being with Philips Electronics for 19 years, latterly as European Director of Uniq plc formerly Unigate plc having been Finance President of Philips Media.
Professor Barry Furr 66 Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Richard Wood is a graduate chartered chemical engineer.
He worked Professor Furr recently retired as Chief Scientist and Head of Project for ICI for 23 years and is a former Managing Director of ICI Seeds UK.
Evaluation for AstraZeneca plc after 34 years of service.
He is a He then worked for 7 years in the pharmaceutical industry, firstly as Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Chief Executive of Daniels Pharmaceutical Limited until it was acquired Regulatory Agency and was awarded an OBE in 2000 for his services by Lloyds Chemists plc and then as Managing Director of a division of to cancer drug discovery.
He joined the Board in December 2006 and Lloyds.
He joined Genus as Chief Executive in December 1996. chairs the Boards science committee.
He is the author of more than 160 papers on reproductive endocrinology and antihormones.
Ian Farrelly 42 Mike Buzzacott joined the Board in May 2009 and is Chairman of Group Company Secretary & General Counsel the Audit Committee.
He spent 34 years at BP prior to his retirement Ian Farrelly is a solicitor.
He joined Genus in June 2006 from in 2004, holding a number of international roles including Finance & Microgen plc where he was Group General Counsel, and was Control Director Asia Pacific, CFO BP Nutrition and Group Vice previously Group Solicitor & Company Secretary of Diagonal plc President Petrochemicals.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director having been Solicitor to Hays plc.
and Audit Committee Chairman of Croda Plc and a Non-Executive Director of Scapa Plc.
He was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Rexam Plc and Chairman of Biofuels Plc.
Nigel Turner 61 Senior Non-Executive Director Nigel Turner joined the Board in January 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 to November 2007.
Previously he was Vice Chairman of ABN AMROs Wholesale and Investment Bank in which he had specific responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Equity businesses.
He joined the Dutch bank in 2000 from Lazard, where he was a partner for 15 years and sat on its Supervisory Board.
