41 Leadership The role of the Board The GKN Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Group.
Key aspects of the Boards role include setting the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary capabilities to deliver the strategy are in place, reviewing operational performance and ensuring that an appropriate and effective framework of control and risk management exists.
a full description of the role of the Board, which includes a number of specific responsibilities reserved for its decision, is available on our website at www.
roy Brown has been Chairman since 2MM4: he is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
Sir Kevin Smith leads the business as Chief executive, a position he has held since 2MM3.
With the support of the executive Committee he is responsible for the execution of the Groups strategy and the day-to-day running of the business.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief executive and with the assistance of the Company Secretary, who maintains a 12 month rolling programme of items for discussion by the Board to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
agendas are closely aligned to the key aspects of the Boards role: below are examples of areas of the Boards focus in 2M1M.
Strategy Capabilities Performance Control n approved strategic plans n Succession planning for n Discussed divisional n assessed, with the support and considered the risks the Board and senior operating performance.
of the audit Committee, the inherent in them.
effectiveness of internal n Considered Group financial control and audit n approved the Groups n reviewed the Groups performance, with processes.
annual budget to support technology plan and the particular focus on cash the strategic plans.
activities of the Group generation and working n Considered a post Technology Strategy Board.
acquisition review in n approved a 2M year assetrespect of Stellex backed cash payment n Considered progress on the n reviewed performance aerostructures.
arrangement for the UK deployment of Lean against the Groups nonpension scheme.
enterprise across the financial KpIs covering n assessed the effectiveness Group.
health, safety and of the Board and its environmental matters.
The Board meets formally at least eight times a year.
at least one meeting is combined with a Board visit to one of the Groups business locations.
In 2M1M, to coincide with the Shanghai expo GKN was one of the founder sponsors of the UK pavilion, the Board visited China and toured a number of the Groups businesses and joint venture operations.
a number of informal meetings are also held during the year which help to strengthen relations between Directors.
There are sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, should this be deemed appropriate.
Board Committees The Board has appointed a number of Committees which play an important governance role through the detailed work they carry out to fulfil the responsibilities delegated to them.
all Board Committees are supported by the Company Secretariat.
Their terms of reference are available on our website.
Corporate Governance Committees Audit Committee monitors the integrity of financial reporting and audit processes and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups chaired by John Sheldrick systems of internal control and risk management.
a report on its activities in 2M1M is given on pages 46 and 47.
Remuneration Committee determines and makes recommendations on the Groups remuneration policy and framework to recruit, retain chaired by richard parry-Jones and reward Directors and senior executives.
The remuneration report is set out on pages 48 to 58.
Nominations Committee recommends Board and Board Committee appointments and reviews succession planning against the chaired by roy Brown leadership needs of the Group.
all independent non-executive Directors are members of these Committees.
This gives them detailed insight into matters critical to the success of the Group and helps to inform Board discussions.
The Chairman and the Chief executive are also members of the Nominations Committee.
Briefing papers are prepared and circulated to Committee members in advance of each meeting and, in respect of the audit Committee, made available to other Directors.
In order that the Board remains fully appraised of their work, the Committee Chairmen report formally on Committee activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
These Committees can obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company if deemed necessary.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M CorporaTe GoVerNaNCe CoNTINUeD 42 Operational Governance Committees Executive Committee is responsible for executing strategy by leading, overseeing and directing the activities of the Group.
chaired by Sir Kevin Smith Its work is supported by a number of sub-committees: Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee is responsible for driving operational best practice globally through the application of Lean business processes.
Group Technology Strategy Board is responsible for development of the Groups technology plan, driving the development of appropriate technologies across the Group and the strengthening of external relationships including access to sources of funding.
Governance and has responsibility for developing strategy for and providing oversight and direction on all matters relating Risk Sub-Committee to governance and compliance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
Board and Committee attendance The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the audit, remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2M1M was as follows: audit remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Director 1M meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings 8 meetings Chairman roy Brown 1M 8 Executive Directors Sir Kevin Smith 1M 8 Marcus Bryson 1M andrew reynolds Smith 1M William Seeger 1M a Nigel Stein 9 Non-executive Directors Shonaid Jemmett-page 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 4 b richard parry-Jones 1M 3 8 8 c John Sheldrick 9 4 7 8 d Michael Turner 9 3 7 7 actual attendance maximum number of meetings Director could attend based on date of appointment.
a Nigel Stein was unable to attend the Board meeting in January due to illness.
b richard parry-Jones was unable to attend the audit Committee meeting in February due to personal commitments.
c John Sheldrick was unable to attend the remuneration Committee meeting in January due to a prior business commitment and the Board meeting in September due to personal commitments.
d Michael Turner was unable to attend the Board, remuneration and Nominations Committee meetings in February and the audit Committee meeting in July due to prior business commitments with Lazard Ltd, of which he is a non-executive director.
