46 aUDIT CoMMITTee reporT Composition Activities The audit Committee comprises the following independent nonThe Committee met on four occasions in 2M1M timed to coincide with the executive Directors: financial and reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance at these meetings is set out in the table on page 42.
Name audit Committee position The Group Chairman, Chief executive, Finance Director, Head of John Sheldrick Chairman Corporate audit, the engagement partner of  LLp Shonaid Jemmett-page Member from 1 June 2M1M pwC and other members of senior management attended meetings richard parry-Jones Member by invitation.
The Head of Corporate audit and pwC had the opportunity Michael Turner Member to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive management being present at three meetings.
In addition, the members of the Sir Christopher Meyer and Sir peter Williams were members of the Committee met separately at the start of each meeting to discuss Committee until they retired from the Board on 6 May 2M1M.
Helmut matters in the absence of any persons attending by invitation.
Mamsch was also a Committee member until his retirement from the Board on 31 october 2M1M.
Financial reporting During the year the audit Committee reviewed a wide range of financial The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
reporting and related matters in respect of the Companys half year and annual results statements and its annual report prior to their The Committees members have, in the Boards view, recent and consideration by the Board.
In particular, the Committee reviewed the relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate significant accounting judgements made in respect of restructuring Governance Code.
This was strengthened during the year with the and impairment charges, tax and warranty provisioning, non-recurring appointment of Shonaid Jemmett-page who has held a number of senior costs on aerospace contracts, and assumptions in respect of postfinance roles in Unilever, is a former partner at KpMG and is currently employment obligations.
Key points of disclosure and presentation Chief operating officer at CDC Group plc.
John Sheldrick, the Committee to ensure the adequacy, clarity and completeness of the financial Chairman, was Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc from 1995 statements were also considered, including the accounting treatment until his retirement in September 2MM9 and has chaired GKNs audit in respect of the asset-backed cash payment arrangement implemented Committee since 2MM4.
during the year for the UK pension scheme.
reports highlighting key accounting matters and significant judgements were also received Role from pwC in respect of each set of financial statements: these were The primary role of the audit Committee, which reports its findings to discussed in Committee with the auditors.
analysis to support the the Board, is to ensure the integrity of the financial reporting and audit going concern judgement given on page 31 was also reviewed.
processes and the maintenance of sound internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and Following consideration of the matters presented to it and discussion reviewing: with both management and pwC, the Committee was satisfied that the significant judgements made were justified and that the financial n the integrity of the Groups financial statements and the significant reporting disclosures were appropriate and meaningful.
reporting judgements contained in them: External auditors n the appropriateness of the Groups relationship with the external Independence auditors, including auditor independence, fees and provision of The audit Committee is responsible for the development, non-audit services: implementation and monitoring of the Companys policies on n the effectiveness of the external audit process, making external audit.
The policies, designed to maintain the objectivity and recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external independence of the external auditors, regulate the appointment of auditors: former employees of the external audit firm to positions in the Group n the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit function and set out the approach to be taken when using the external auditors for non-audit work.
any amendments required to the latter policy as a Corporate audit : result of the recent consultation by the auditing practices Board on the n the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk provision of non-audit services by auditors will be considered by the management systems: and Committee in 2M11.
n the Groups policies and practices concerning business conduct as a general principle the external auditors are excluded from and ethics, including whistleblowing.
consultancy work and cannot be engaged by GKN for other non-audit Written terms of reference that outline the Committees authority and work unless there are compelling reasons to do so.
any proposal to use responsibility are available on our website at www.
the external auditors for non-audit work must be submitted to the Finance Director, via the Group Financial Controller, for approval prior In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent access to appointment.
The Finance Director, who is permitted to delegate to the services of Corporate audit and to the external auditors, and may approval to the Group Financial Controller for amounts below 2M, MMM, obtain outside professional advice as necessary.
During 2M1M no will, depending on the nature of the service, seek the prior member of the Committee, nor the Committee collectively, sought such authorisation of the Chairman of the audit Committee.
The non-audit outside professional advice beyond that which was provided directly fees incurred during 2M1M are set out in note 4 a to the financial to the Committee by the external auditors.
Both the Head of Corporate statements.
These include half year review work, tax compliance and audit and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman advice whereby pwC can draw upon significant historic knowledge of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
gained through the audit process, technical accounting advice and other verification procedures: all such activities remain within the policy approved by the audit Committee.
47 The Committee receives annual confirmation from pwC as to their The Committee reviewed regular reports on control issues of Group independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory level significance, including details of any remedial action being taken.
requirements and professional standards, as well as management These reports included updates on the status of the Groups proprietary confirmation of compliance with the Groups policies on the employment internal control monitoring system GKN reporting and Integrity of former employees of the external auditors and the use of the external procedures, and activities to ensure compliance with both the Senior auditors for non-audit work.
The objectivity and independence of pwC accounting officer provisions of the Finance act 2MM9 and XBrL is also considered as part of Corporate audits annual review of the reporting requirements for UK tax returns, computations and accompanying effectiveness of both the external auditors and the audit process.
It considered reports from Corporate audit and pwC on the Groups systems of internal control and reported to the Board on the Effectiveness and reappointment results of its review.
The internal control system is closely aligned to the The Committee has undertaken its annual review of the qualification, Groups enterprise risk management system designed to assess, monitor, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors and the manage and control risk: the Committee received a demonstration of effectiveness of the external audit process by: this system during the year.
The Committee also examined reports detailing the Groups actual or potential material litigation, monitored n reviewing and approving pwCs plans for the audit of the Groups 2M1M financial statements, the terms of engagement for the audit compliance with the Groups policy for the appointment of agents and and the proposed audit fee: consultants which is available on our website, and reviewed the Directors and Company Secretarys expenses.
n considering the views of Directors, senior management and the pwC engagement partner on pwCs independence, objectivity, integrity, Further information on the Groups systems of internal control and risk audit strategy and its relationship with the Group, obtained by way management is given on page 44. of interview by Corporate audit: and Whistleblowing n taking into account information provided by pwC on their To support the Groups employee Disclosure procedures policy which independence and quality control procedures.
is available on our website, GKN operates a Group-wide international whistleblowing hotline.
run by an external and independent third party, In making its recommendation to the Board that pwC be reappointed for the hotline facilitates arrangements whereby employees can make a further year, the Committee took into account their tenure as auditors on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential disclosures about and considered whether there should be a full tender process.
a review suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
any matters so reported are of the external auditor appointment is currently underway to ensure that investigated and escalated to the audit Committee as appropriate.
the objectivity and independence of the relationship remains appropriate.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures made There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice are reported to the Committee on an annual basis.
Performance evaluation Details of the fees paid to pwC in 2M1M can be found in note 4 a to the Details of the Board and Committee evaluation process which financial statements.
commenced in 2M1M can be found on pages 43 and 44.
Internal control on behalf of the Committee In 2M1M the Committee reviewed the results of the audits undertaken by Corporate audit and considered the adequacy of managements response to the matters raised, including the implementation of any recommendations made.
It also approved proposals to amend the existing audit rating and reporting system to encourage further improvement in the control environment.
The Committee considered John Sheldrick and approved the 2M11 Corporate audit programme, including the Chairman of the audit Committee proposed audit approach, coverage and allocation of resources.
The effectiveness of Corporate audit was formally reviewed, taking into 28 February 2M11 account the views of Directors and senior management on matters such as independence, proficiency, resourcing, and audit strategy, planning and methodology.
The appointment of a new Head of Corporate audit was also approved by the Committee following the retirement of the previous incumbent.
GKN plc annual report and accounts 2M1M
