Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 71 Corporate governance As a result, the denitions may cover legitimate business activities Internal control framework not in the ordinary sense considered to be political donations or The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and political expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
any political party or independent election candidate.
The authority The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the which the Board has sought annually is a precautionary measure to adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the ensure that the company and its subsidiaries do not inadvertently Group, including financial, operational and compliance controls breach the legislation.
The Board has delegated responsibility for Annual General Meeting such review to the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee, which receives regular reporting aligned with GSKs Assurance Programme.
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Thursday, 5th May 2011 It is the responsibility of management, through the CET, to at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, implement Board policies on risk and control.
The CET is responsible Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted for identifying, approving, monitoring and enforcing key policies at the meeting will include: that go to the heart of how the Group conducts business.
s Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKlines 2010 The internal control framework includes central direction, resource Annual Report allocation and risk management of the key activities of research and s Approving the 2010 Remuneration Report development, manufacturing, marketing and sales, legal, human The Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 101 sets out the resources, information systems and financial practice.
As part of remuneration policies operated by GSK and disclosures on this framework, there is a comprehensive planning system with Directors remuneration, including those required by the an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of operating Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Medium-sized units are reported monthly and compared with the budget.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
A resolution will be proposed to approve the The Group also has in place established procedures to identify and Remuneration Report.
The Groups control activities include s Retirement and re-election of Directors policies and practices covering appropriate authorisation and Simon Dingemans, who was appointed before the AGM will approval of transactions, application of financial reporting standards retire in accordance with the Articles and, being eligible, will and reviews of significant judgements and financial performance.
offer himself for election at the AGM.
All the continuing Directors Extensive financial, regulatory and operational controls, procedures will retire by rotation at the 2011 AGM and offer themselves and risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
However, responsibility is clearly delegated to local business units, s Re-appointment and remuneration of auditors supported by a regional management structure.
These principles are Resolutions will be proposed to authorise the Audit & Risk designed to provide an environment of central leadership coupled Committee to re-appoint  LLP as with local operating autonomy as the framework for the exercise of auditors and to determine their remuneration.
accountability and control within the Group.
s Special business The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and The company will seek authority to: procedures designed to achieve appropriate accountability and s MAKE DONATIONS TO %5 POLITICAL ORGANISATIONS AND INCUR control.
A Group policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, EU political expenditure, capped at 100,000 mandates that business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
s ALLOT RDINARY 3HARES IN THE COMPANY The internal control framework also relies on the following s GIVE THE $IRECTORS AUTHORITY TO DISAPPLY PRE EMPTION RIGHTS mechanisms for overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
when allotting new shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and to purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under 10% of the current issued share capital s EXEMPT THE AUDITORS FROM HAVING TO STATE THE NAME OF their senior statutory auditor for the company in GSKs Annual Report s REDUCE THE NOTICE REQUIRED TO CALL A GENERAL MEETING TO NOT less than 14 clear days.
Shareholders are entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend the AGM and to speak and vote on their behalf provided that, in the event that a single shareholder appoints multiple proxies, each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
Details on how to appoint or be appointed a corporate representative or proxy can be found on page 208.
The Notice of AGM will be published on the Investors section of the companys website.
GSK Annual Report 2010 72 Corporate governance Risk Oversight Audit and & Risk Compliance Committee Council Internal Assurance audit Business unit reporting reporting reporting Independent External audit Business review of Emerging Internal Business regulatory Incidents control risk audit business unit monitoring events agency infrastructure and internal management activity outcome audit activity GSK Risk Universe Management Internal Assurance audit Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by the CEC department, which is responsible for supporting the development and to assist the Committee oversee the risk management and internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises several CET implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance members and some of the heads of departments with internal control, with laws and Group policy.
The department provides assistance risk management, assurance, audit and compliance responsibilities.
to help employees meet high ethical standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations and corporate responsibility.
The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant risks and their mitigation plans and provide oversight of internal The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in controls to ensure compliance with applicable laws, regulations and preventing and detecting misconduct or non-compliance with law internal GSK policies.
The ROCC, responding to the Group policy or regulation and the promotion of ethical behaviour, compliance referred to above, has provided the business units with a framework with all laws and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels for risk management and upward reporting of significant risks.
Mitigation planning and identication of a manager with overall GSK employees are encouraged to seek help and to report responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
concerns or suspected cases of misconduct without the fear of Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs retaliation.
Employees can do this through line management or via GSKs integrity and condential reporting lines managed by RMCBs have been established in each of the major business units.
All concerns and allegations are fairly and independently Membership often comprises members of the senior executive investigated and disciplinary action, if applicable, is commensurate team of the respective business unit, augmented by specialists with the issues presented.
The RMCBs oversee management of all risks that are considered important for their respective business units, The CEC department is managed by the Senior Vice President, including those risks that are designated as significant to GSK Governance, Ethics and Assurance, who reports directly to the as a whole, thus increasing the number of risks that are actively CEO.
He chairs the ROCC and provides summary reports on the managed across the Group.
ROCCs activities and the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Committee on a regular basis.
His direct reporting line to the Each business unit and corporate function must periodically review Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the executive the significant risks facing their businesses.
This review should management should the need ever arise.
include identifying operational risks, legal compliance risks and risks to the achievement of strategic goals and objectives.
The review must occur at least annually and should be embedded within, and aligned with, the annual planning process to ensure that significant risks are identied with changes in management direction and the external environment.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 73 Corporate governance Assurance Assurance reporting In 2009, an Assurance Programme was implemented to further Assurance reporting to the Committee follows a structured enhance governance and provide an independent assessment programme integrating reporting from business units, Assurance of governance, risk management and control processes for the and Internal Audit.
Within GSK this comprises four main elements: Business units and corporate functions are required to present Internal Audit reports annually to the ROCC and the Committee that detail their risk management and compliance approach, providing a balanced GSKs Internal Audit group has responsibility for independently assessment of the status of internal controls over key risks, and assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the management of highlighting any significant compliance issues.
Managers must significant risk areas and reporting outcomes to the Committee oversee risks that are considered important for their respective in line with an agreed Assurance Plan.
The internal audit group is business units, including those risks that are designated as significant comprised of four principal teams focused in the following areas: to the Group.
Information regarding the controls in place to manage s #OMMERCIAL AND &INANCIAL these risks is provided to assure the Committee that these risks are adequately managed within the internal control framework.
s NFORMATION 4ECHNOLOGY In addition, significant compliance issues and internal audit results are sANUFACTURING INCLUDING %NVIRONMENTAL EALTH 3AFETY AND escalated to the ROCC and the Committee at the earliest opportunity.
Sustainability Risk management s 2ESEARCH AND $EVELOPMENT The Groups risk management programme extends beyond legal All internal audit activity is conducted by a single organisation and regulatory issues and considers the Groups overall strategy and under the leadership of the Head of Audit & Assurance.
The Head changes in the external environment.
Furthermore, risk management of Audit & Assurance has a dual reporting line into the Senior Vice principles are embedded within management practices and are part President, Governance, Ethics and Assurance and the Committee of the business strategy and objectives setting process.
The global audit function allows for more holistic assurance, consistency in approach, and independence in reporting.
For details of risks affecting the Group, see Risk factors on pages 53 This has helped eliminate overlaps, gaps and the potential for over to 57 and Note 44 to the financial statements, Legal proceedings.
Effectiveness of controls Internal Audit undertakes a continuous process of risk assessment The internal control framework has been in operation for the that contributes to the evolution of GSKs audit strategies and whole of the year under review and continues to operate up to the compilation and delivery of the audit schedule.
This approach date of approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is allows Audit & Assurance to respond expeditiously to changes in designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving the business and risk environment and ensure that audit strategies business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not are t-for-purpose.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
When issues or control deficiencies are identied during The Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to the audit engagements, Internal Audit recommends processes for Group and on related internal controls.
GSK managers develop corrective action plans to of these reports and those received via the Assurance framework, address the causes of non-compliance and gaps in internal controls.
the Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness Internal Audit tracks these plans to completion and reports results of controls.
to executive management and the Committee.
Internal audit results There are areas of the Groups business where it is necessary to are also compiled and reported to the ROCC and the Committee as take risks to achieve a satisfactory return for shareholders, such detailed in the Assurance reporting section below.
as investment in R&D and in acquiring new products or businesses.
To supplement the audit programme, Strategic Risk Evaluations In these cases, it is the Groups objective to apply its expertise in SREs are performed on significant issues facing GSK and are the prudent management rather than elimination of risk.
The conducted by our assurance teams in partnership with the business.
Directors review relates to the company and its subsidiaries and The approach is designed to evaluate risk areas and enable the does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint development and implementation of appropriate mitigation plans.
During 2010 two new SREs were performed covering the areas The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment of change management and evaluation of risks associated with of risks and the internal control framework that operates in GSK existing and proposed sales force incentive schemes.
In addition, and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal Audit & Assurance provided implementation support for the control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this 2009 SREs which included acquisitions - due diligence and use of report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
The pseudoephedrine in GSK products.
process followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
