64 Corporate governance Board process Governance and policy The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company This section discusses GSKs management structures and and has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for governance procedures and together with the Remuneration ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and achieves Report on pages 81 to 101, includes details of how the company the strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those applies and complies with the principles and provisions of the responsibilities through an annual programme of meetings which Combined Code maintained by the FRC and with US laws and includes the approval of overall budgetary planning and business regulations.
The Board reviews the Groups internal controls and risk The Board and Corporate Executive Team management policies and approves its governance structure and The Directors are listed under Our Board on pages 58 to 59 and code of conduct.
the members of the CET under Our Corporate Executive Team on The Board appraises and approves major nancing, investment and pages 60 to 61. licensing decisions in excess of dened thresholds.
In addition, the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, whole.
This includes: strategy, risk management and financial performance.
"s ENGAGING AT ""OARD MEETINGS WITH AND CHALLENGING THE #% Independence the other Executive Directors and members of the CET as The Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to be appropriate, on the financial and operating performance of GSK independent in character and judgement and free from any and external issues material to the Groups prospects business or other relationship which could materially interfere s EVALUATING PROGRESS TOWARDS THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE 'ROUP S with the exercise of their judgement."
The Chairman satisfied the financial and business objectives and annual plans and the Nonindependence criteria on his appointment to the Board.
Executive Directors scrutinising the performance of management in meeting these objectives and plans, and At the date of publication and throughout 2010, a majority of the Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent s MONITORING THROUGH REPORTS RECEIVED DIRECTLY OR FROM VARIOUS Non-Executive Directors.
committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the Sir Christopher Gent has chaired the company since 1st January CEO and the other Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The 2005 and was Chairman throughout 2010.
His biographical Board has given the CEO broad authority to operate the business details can be found on page 58.
Andrew Witty is the CEO and his of the Group, and the CEO is accountable for, and reports to the biographical details can be found on pages 58 and 60.
Board on, the performance of the business.
CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas of responsibility.
The Chairman leads and manages the Board while the CEO The Board Directors meet with all the CET members on an annual manages the Group and implements the strategy and policies basis to discuss and develop proposals collectively in relation to the adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chairmen of Board Groups strategy.
Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET members.
The division of responsibilities between the role of The Board met six times in 2010, with each member attending Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by as follows: the Board and appears in full in the Governance section of the companys website.
Number of meetings held whilst a Board Number of The CEO is responsible for executive management of the Group member meetings attended and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets at least 11 times per year Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 and otherwise as necessary.
Andrew Witty 6 6 Under the terms of their engagement, the Chairman and each Julian Heslop 6 6 Non-Executive Director are expected to devote such time as is Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6 Sir Robert Wilson was appointed Senior Independent Director Larry Culp 6 5 SID on 20th May 2009, following Sir Ian Prossers retirement Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 from the Board on that date.
His responsibilities include the annual Sir Deryck Maughan 6 4 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the Board, its James Murdoch 6 6 Committees and Directors in collaboration with the Committee Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6 Chairmen in those years when the process is internally facilitated.
Tom fide Swaan 6 5 He is also available as an additional point of contact on the Board Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 for shareholders.
Sir Deryck was unable to attend two meetings for personal reasons.
He gave his comments to the Chairman on the matters to be discussed in advance of both meetings.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on three occasions.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 65 Corporate governance Where Directors are unable to attend a Board or Committee The Board has an established procedure for handling situational meeting, they communicate their comments and observations on conicts of interest, which is in line with the best practice guidance the matters to be considered via the Chairman of the Board or the issued by the General Counsel 100 Group and in accordance relevant Board Committee Chairman for raising as appropriate at with the companys Articles.
It has authorised the Nominations the relevant meeting.
Attendance at meetings is considered as Committee to grant and review periodically, but in any event part of the one-to-one meetings conducted by the Chairman annually, any potential or actual conict authorisations.
are not counted in the quorum for the authorisation of their own actual or potential conicts.
The Company Secretary minutes the Business environment and personal development consideration of any conict.
Authorisations granted are recorded To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, by the Company Secretary in a register of conict authorisations including legal, governance and regulatory developments, which are noted by the Board at its next meeting.
presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and On an ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for informing internal advisers.
the Company Secretary of any new, actual or potential conicts Non-Executive Directors also gain greater insight and understanding that may arise or if there are any changes in circumstances that may of the business and access to GSK employees through visits to affect an authorisation previously given.
Even when provided with Group operational facilities and attendance at various internal authorisation, a Director is not absolved from his or her statutory management meetings, including CET, Research & Development duty to promote the success of the company.
If an actual conict Executive and Product Marketing Board meetings, on an ad hoc arises post authorisation, the Board will choose to exclude the basis.
Director from receipt of the relevant information and participation in the debate, or suspend the Director from the Board, or, as a last A customised induction process is conducted by the Company resort, require the Director to resign.
Secretary for each of the new Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and taking account of their different The Nominations Committee reviewed the register of conict backgrounds.
A primary element of this process includes meeting authorisations in October 2010 and concluded that the members of the CET informally on a collective and individual basis conicts had been appropriately authorised and the process for as appropriate, together with other senior executives, and visiting authorisation continues to operate effectively.
particular operational facilities of the Group.
Company Secretary In addition, the Chairman meets with each Director annually on The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available a one-to-one basis to discuss and agree their individual ongoing to individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
Simon training and development requirements.
Bicknell was Company Secretary until 31st December 2010 and was Secretary to all of the Board Committees, except the Independent advice Remuneration Committee.
Victoria Whyte, formerly Deputy The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or Company Secretary, was appointed Company Secretary with effect more of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal from 1st January 2011.
She was Secretary to the Remuneration and or financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an Committee during 2010 and acts as Secretary to all of the Board agreed procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the Committees since her appointment as Company Secretary.
She Governance section of the companys website.
is a solicitor and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries indemnification of Directors and Administrators.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in section Board Committees 234 of the Companies Act 2006 are in force for the benefit of the The Board has established a number of committees and Directors and former Directors who held ofce during 2010. provides sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their Directors conicts of interest duties.
Executive Directors are not members of the Audit & Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they Risk, Remuneration, Nominations or Corporate Responsibility have, or can have, a direct or indirect conict of interest or possible Committees, although they may be invited to attend meetings.
conict of interest with the company.
The duty applies in particular Each Director is a member of the Corporate Administration & to the exploitation of any property, information or opportunity, Transactions and Finance Committees.
whether or not GSK could take advantage of it.
The companys Articles of Association include a general power for the Board to authorise such conicts.
There is no breach of duty if the relevant matter has been so authorised in advance.
GSK Annual Report 2010 66 Corporate governance Corporate governance framework BOARD Chairman, 4 Executive Directors and 9 Independent Non-Executive Directors Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chief Executive 5 Independent 4 Independent Non-Executive 4 Independent Non-Executive officer Non-Executive Directors Directors and the Chairman Directors and the Chairman Corporate Administration Finance Committee Corporate Responsibility & Transactions Committee Executive and Non-Executive 3 Independent Non-Executive CET Directors, the Company Directors Directors and the Chairman Secretary and CET Members Key Board Committees Management Committee There have been 4 Executive Directors since the appointment of the Chief Financial officer Designate on 4th January 2011 there will be 3 Executive Directors following the retirement of the Chief Financial officer on 31st March 2011.
Current membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Corporate Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsibility Sir Christopher Gent M C C Professor Sir Roy Anderson M Dr Stephanie Burns M Larry Culp M M Sir Crispin Davis C M Sir Deryck Maughan M M James Murdoch M M Dr Daniel Podolsky M M Tom fide Swaan C M Sir Robert Wilson M M Key: C Chairman M Member GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Business review P08sn057 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 67 Corporate governance Each Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved by the Board and are reviewed at least annually to ensure that they comply with the latest legal and regulatory requirements and reect best practice developments.
The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Committee.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Governance section of the companys website.
No of meetings Committee Report Committee Role and Terms of Reference Membership comprises per year on page Audit & Risk Reviews the financial and internal reporting process, Independent Non- 4 74-76 the external and internal audit processes, the system Executive Directors of internal controls, and the identication and management of risks.
The Committee also proposes to shareholders the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and is directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
Remuneration Determines the terms of service and remuneration of Independent Non- 4 81-101 the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Directors CET and, with the assistance of external and the Chairman independent advisers, it evaluates and makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive remuneration policy that assists the long-term success of the Group.
The Chairman and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors.
Reviews the structure, size and composition Independent Non- 2 77 Nominations of the Board including the skills, knowledge, Executive Directors independence, experience and diversity and and the Chairman appointment of members to the Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Committee monitors the planning of succession to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee also considers and if appropriate authorises directors conicts of interest.
Corporate Provides a Board-level forum for the regular review Independent Non- 3 78-80 Responsibility of external issues that have the potential for serious Executive Directors impact upon the Groups business and reputation.
and the Chairman The Committee is also responsible for oversight of GSKs worldwide donations and community support.
Reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Executive and NonAs necessary Finance Annual Report and Form 20-F, and convening of the Executive Directors AGM, together with the preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
It also approves certain major licensing and capital transactions and changes to the Groups Investment Instrument and Counterparty Limits.
Corporate Reviews and approves matters in connection with Executive and NonAs necessary Administration the administration of the Groups business and Executive Directors, certain corporate transactions.
CET members & Transactions and the Company Secretary GSK Annual Report 2010 68 Corporate governance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors There was a high level of confidence in the performance of the CEO and a strong belief that the Board dynamics facilitated open, The Board decided in 2009 to undertake an externally facilitated honest and constructive discussion of issues.
No major changes to evaluation process every three years, which has since become a the Boards practices and procedures were deemed necessary.
requirement within the UK Corporate Governance Code updated Code.
In the intervening period the review will be facilitated by the In terms of the implementation of action points from the previous SID or the Chairman.
The next externally facilitated evaluation will year, the Board: be undertaken at the end of 2011. s HAD INCREASED ITS FOCUS ON 2 $ ACTIVITIES AND SUCCESSFUL DELIVERY A reminder of the form the Board evaluation reviews for 2008 and of the pipeline and was pleased with progress from R&D during 2009 had taken, together with the action points agreed is set out the year.
Separately, on behalf of the Board, the Remuneration below.
Committee initiated discussions with management and shareholders over the introduction of more strategically aligned Method of evaluation Actions and areas of focus performance criteria for the companys long term incentive plans.
"As a result of a successful conclusion to these discussions, the 2008 Dr Long, Boardroom s 5TILISE ""OARD AND #OMMITTEE grant of LTI options made in February 2011 was made with two Review, facilitated this time more effectively and additional performance criteria, one of which focuses on R&D review facilitate further contribution new product performance."
For more details, please refer to the by Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 101 s %NHANCE CONTINUOUS education process for Nons HAD SOUGHT ASSISTANCE FROM THE !UDIT 2ISK #OMMITTEE TO MORE Executive Directors fully understand the Groups key risks.
"This work is ongoing s 0ROVIDE GREATER VISIBILITY and the Board will continue to consider regular reports from to executive talent and the Audit & Risk Committee during 2011, in advance of the management succession Boards annual review of the effectiveness of the companys risk planning process management next year 2009 Sir Robert Wilson, s NCREASE ""OARD TIME DEVOTED s WAS PLEASED WITH THE OPERATION BY THE."
OMINATIONS #OMMITTEE Senior Independent to strategic discussion and of the enhanced succession planning process.
This had resulted Director the indicators of success in the appointment of the CFO Designate and positive progress in the delivery of the R&D was being made on the recruitment of new Board members to pipeline refresh the Board.
"s $EVOTE MORE TIME TO The Board agreed the following actions after discussion of the focused consideration of the evaluation report to ensure that it continues to improve the way in companys key risks on an which it operates: ongoing basis s 0ROVIDE THE ""OARD WITH MORE s GIVEN THE FUNDAMENTAL STRATEGIC CHALLENGES FACING THE regular updates and insights pharmaceutical industry, the Board will seek to continue to into the newly enhanced allocate more time on a regular basis to focus on strategic issues management succession and the significant challenges facing the industry, with the direct planning process aim of further enhancing returns to shareholders s TO FURTHER ENHANCE INFORMATION mOWS BY PROVIDING ""OARD 2010 Board evaluation process members with a wider variety of external perspectives on the In accordance with established practice, the SID, Sir Robert company and the industry Wilson, conducted the 2010 evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, the Board and its Committees and Directors in s 2 $ WILL CONTINUE TO BE A MAJOR EXPENSE TO THE COMPANY AND collaboration with the Committee Chairmen."
the Board will be seeking to assess the extent to which the new policies implemented in recent years have added value The Board evaluation process included a one-to-one interview with each Director.
The topics discussed, which had been circulated to s TO CONTINUE TO SUPPORT %XECUTIVEANAGEMENT ON ETHICAL Directors in advance, included a variety of aspects associated with leadership within the Group.
Board effectiveness, including Board and Committee information The Directors, led by the SID, also met separately, without the ows, handling of strategic issues, collective effectiveness and Chairman being present, to discuss the Chairmans performance.
exploration of ways to further improve the way in which the Board They considered that his leadership, performance and overall operates.
contribution were of a high standard.
As a result of this high The Chairman of each of the Board Committees undertook level of confidence shared by all Directors in Sir Christophers separate evaluations and the outcome of each was reported to and Chairmanship of the Board, it was unanimously agreed to extend discussed with the respective Committee and the Board.
his appointment as Chairman for a period of five years with effect from 1st January 2011, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Feedback from the overall evaluation process was provided in This would ensure continuity of leadership of the Board during a the form of a written report to the Board, which then debated its period when several Non-Executive Directors would be approaching findings.
retirement after having served nine years on the Board.
The Board evaluation review concluded that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively at a high level.
The Board continued to feel that it was receiving high quality information, in a readily understandable format and on a timely basis in order to full its role.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Governance and remuneration P58P101
