DIRECTORS REPORT:CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance and this section of the Annual Report describes how Go-Ahead achieves these standards and complies with the Combined Code of Corporate Governance.
As a Board, we welcome the changes arising from the new UK Corporate Governance Code and, while not applicable to Go-Ahead until next year, we are already considering and implementing the changes appropriate to our own corporate governance arrangements.
In particular, and with effect from this years Annual General Meeting, all Directors will stand for annual shareholder election.
Appointment of New Non-Executive Director The Board was pleased to announce the recent appointment of Katherine Innes Ker as a Non-Executive Director of the Board with effect from 9 July 2010.
Katherine is also a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
This represents a change to the previous constitution, and historic non-compliance with the Combined Code, where the Audit and Remuneration Committees were not made up of at least three Non-Executive Directors.
With effect from 9 July 2010, there are no longer any provisions of the Combined Code with which Go-Ahead does not comply.
OUR DEVOLVED STRUCTURE We believe that our devolved management structure, as illustrated below, enables the Group to be managed in a particularly effective BOARD EFFECTIVENESS way.
Local management throughout the Group are empowered to We believe that we are able to demonstrate the Boards operate our companies as autonomous business units, whilst commitment to good practices of corporate governance through working together to share experience and expertise around the an ongoing re-evaluation of the Board, its structure and Group.
For example, many aspects of the Groups day-to-day performance.
During the year, we made two important changes: operations report through operating company senior management directly into the Board through the Group Chief Executive and the New Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director the Executive Directors : The Board was pleased to appoint Rupert Pennant-Rea who is also Senior Independent Director as Chairman of the Remuneration The Executive Directors sit on the board of each operating company and meet formally with local senior management each Committee in October 2009.
This represents a change to the month.
As each operating company is a separate legal entity, and previous constitution, and historic non-compliance with the because of the autonomous nature of the business units, minutes Combined Code, where the Chairman of the Company was also of each meeting are recorded.
the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board and management structure The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Committee Committee Committee Directors Operating Chief Executive Group Group Group Group Company Executive Team Finance Engineering Health & Energy Boards Group Group Forum Forum Safety Forum Forum 54 www.
com The Executive Directors hold regular meetings with the Managing Health & Safety Forum Directors of all of the operating companies the Chief Executive The Group regularly holds forums where representatives from across our operating Group to facilitate the sharing of experience and best practice companies share best practice and help develop group-wide standards and policies.
Pictured below is our Health & Safety Forum which meets every quarter and is attended by our external health & safety consultant.
The Executive Directors meet on a monthly basis with the senior managers who are responsible for the key centralised Group functions the ExecutiveTeam Group which include company secretarial, finance, pensions, engineering, properties and services, procurement and technology.
In addition, there are a number of Group forums that are held on a regular basis which consider finance, engineering, health & safety and energy matters.
These key forums, which also report directly to the Executive Directors, enable representatives from all operating companies to share best and emerging practice, to seek synergies and cost savings, to improve quality and to achieve economies of scale wherever possible.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IT REMAINS OUR BELIEFTHAT Operating our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally OPERATING OUR COMPANIES IN A responsible manner is a vital part of the Groups strategy.
It is what we do on a day-to-day basis and is deeply embedded across our SAFE, SOCIALLY & ENVIRONMENTALLY organisation at all levels.
RESPONSIBLE MANNER, WITHIN A The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups corporate ROBUST GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE, responsibility.
We do not have separate Board level committees for UNDERPINSTHE DELIVERY OFTHE corporate responsibility and health & safety as we believe it is GROUPS STRATEGY AND SHAREHOLDER fundamental for the Board as a whole to be involved in these areas, which are integral to our business.
The Groups flat structure enables the Board to closely monitor the performance of each operating company.
Safety and energy Key Performance Indicators KPIs are reviewed at monthly operating company board meetings, chaired by the Executive Directors.
Internal Sir Patrick Brown, Chairman safety and energy targets for each of our operating companies are set 1 September 2010 at the beginning of the financial year and progress against these targets is linked to both operating company senior managers and Executive Directors remuneration.
A health & safety audit of each of our businesses is undertaken by an external consultant each year.
Internal corporate responsibility structure The Go-Ahead Group plc: Board of Directors Executive Directors Operating Company Board Group Energy Forum Operating Company Group Health & Safety Forum Share best practice Senior Manager responsible for Share best practice Chaired by Group Engineering Director & energy health & safety Chaired by Group Engineering Director & Group Environment & Energy Manager external health & safety consultant Operating Company Energy Committee Operating Company Health & Safety Committee The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D as a whole is involved in decision making in these areas and this COMPLIANCE WITH THE hands-on approach has served the business well over previous COMBINED CODE years.
The Board confirms that the Company has been in full compliance throughout the financial year with the main principles of the Responsibility for the operation of Group companies, implementing Combined Code published in June 2008 the Combined Code.
A Group strategy in accordance with the strategy agreed by the copy of the Combined Code is available on the Financial Reporting Board and achievement of objectives is delegated to the Executive Councils website www.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with the senior The Company has also complied with all of the provisions set out management and staff in the Groups operating companies, both in Section 1 of the Combined Code, with the following exceptions: formally via the monthly board meetings, and less formally on a regular basis.
2.1 The Remuneration Committee should be made up of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors and the The Board maintains a Board Procedures Manual, prepared in Company Chairman should not chair the Committee.
response to the Combined Code.
This includes formal procedures for the working of the Board and its Committees, delegated Following the appointment of Rupert Pennant-Rea as Chairman of authorities, the timely provision of appropriate information and the the Remuneration Committee in October 2009 and the duties and responsibilities of Directors, including standards of appointment of Katherine Innes Ker as Non-Executive Director in conduct and compliance.
The Board has established robust July 2010, Go-Ahead is now fully compliant with this provision.
procedures for ensuring that their powers to authorise conflicts are C. 3.1 The Audit Committee should be made up of at least operated in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers that the Directors powers to authorise conflict situations have operated effectively during the year and that Following the appointment of Katherine Innes Ker as Nonthe procedures in place have been properly followed.
Executive Director in July 2010, Go-Ahead is now fully compliant with this provision.
Ongoing development and induction In addition to Board and Committee meeting attendance, the NonBOARD ORGANISATION AND Executive Directors are encouraged to update their skills, STRUCTURE knowledge and familiarity with the Company in order to The Board competently carry out their responsibility to Go-Aheads At the beginning of the year, the Board comprised the Nonshareholders.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors Executive Chairman, two independent Non-Executive Directors attend the Groups annual Senior Management Conference each one of whom is the Senior Independent Director and two year, enabling them to review and discuss the Groups strategy with Executive Directors.
Following the appointment of Katherine Innes senior managers from across the Group.
The Chairman also attends Ker on 9 July 2010, the Board now comprises three independent meetings of the Chief Executive Group.
The Directors biographies can be found on page 52.
With the exception of Katherine Innes Ker, all Directors A full, formal and tailored induction for Katherine Innes Ker is were members of the Board throughout the financial year.
currently underway which includes a full briefing of her responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and corporate The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for governance guidelines.
Katherine will also visit operating companies decision see page 58.
The Board has also delegated specific to meet with local senior management, as well as meeting with the responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Executive Directors and key Group personnel.
Committees, each of which has terms of reference which detail their authority and duties.
While the Board delegates some of its responsibilities to these Committees, it still retains full Board responsibility for a number of key areas such as health & safety, corporate responsibility and risk management.
The Board feels that it is fundamental that the Board 56 www.
com Roles of the Board The offices of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately.
The Company Chairman is Sir Patrick Brown and the Group Chief Executive is Keith Ludeman.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Finance Director is Nick Swift.
Rupert Pennant-Rea is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Andrew Allner and Katherine Innes Ker are Non-Executive Directors.
The table below outlines the division of key responsibilities, as agreed by the Board: Role Key Responsibilities Chairman Leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members: Ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees: Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors: and Encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Group Chief Executive Running the day-to-day business of the Group within the authorities delegated by the Board: Leading the development of the Groups strategy including identifying and assessing opportunities: Ensuring the execution of policies and strategy as set by the Board as a whole: Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors: Day-to-day leadership of the executive and senior management team: and Ensuring that the Chairman is kept updated in a timely manner of issues, events and developments.
Group Finance Director Maintaining strong financial management underpinned by effective financial controls: Developing the Groups policies and strategy on tax, treasury, financing, insurance and pensions: Ensuring a commercial and financial focus on potential acquisitions, business case appraisal and financial planning: Ensuring the appropriateness of risk management and internal control processes and systems: Supporting and advising the senior management team in their operational roles: and Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and investors.
Senior Independent Providing an important point of contact for shareholders in the event that they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of the Executive Directors or Chairman, or for which such contact Non-Executive Director is inappropriate: Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an intermediary for the other Directors as necessary: and Leading a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year, without the Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Ensuring constructive challenge: Non-Executive Directors Helping develop proposals on strategy: Scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitoring the reporting of performance: Ensuring the integrity of financial information: Ensuring financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and defensible: and Ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to the Executive Directors.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D February 2010 to alter the current restrictions on the borrowings Board meetings imposed by the current Articles of Association of the Company.
Directors are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings, Annual and any General The agenda for each Board meeting is set by the Chairman, in Meetings.
The Board holds a minimum of seven scheduled Board consultation with the Group Chief Executive and Group Company meetings throughout the year.
At least one of the meetings each Secretary.
Detailed briefing papers in relation to the business to be year is dedicated to reviewing the Groups strategy.
Additional conducted at each meeting are circulated to the Board at least one meetings are held as and when required.
The Chairman and the week before each meeting and individual Board members have Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without the Executive direct access to the Executive Directors and the Group Company Directors being present.
Secretary should they wish to receive additional information.
During the year ended 3 July 2010, the Board held eight scheduled Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion and debate meetings.
The table on page 59 shows Directors attendance at and the Chairman ensures that adequate time is available for scheduled meetings they were eligible to attend during the financial discussion of all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
There were also a number of additional Board meetings held senior managers and advisors attend relevant parts of Board to consider matters arising before the next scheduled Board meetings on a regular basis, and as required, to ensure that the meeting.
In addition to the Annual General Meeting held in Board is properly informed about the current issues facing the October 2009, a General Meeting of shareholders was held in business.
Minutes of all meetings are circulated promptly afterwards.
Schedule of matters reserved for the Board 1 Approval of the Groups strategy, objectives, values and overall 10 Approval of changes in the capital structure of the Company governance framework.
or its status as a public limited company listed on the London Stock Exchange and, in particular, the issue or allotment of 2 Approval of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, shares in the Company otherwise than pursuant to CompanyDirectors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance approved employee share schemes and share buyback Statement and Half Year Reports.
3 Approval of any interim dividend and recommendation of the 11 Responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment and final dividend.
removal of the Chairman and Directors and the 4 Approval of the Notice of Annual General Meeting and the recommendation to shareholders as to their election or reresolutions to shareholders therein, including the election under the Articles of Association: the appointment recommendation for the appointment, re-appointment or and removal of the Group Company Secretary: ensuring that removal of the Auditors.
suitable procedures are in place for succession planning and the fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors.
5 Approval of all other circulars, listing particulars, and corresponding documentation sent to shareholders.
12 Regular review and approval of the Board Procedures Manual, the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the 6 Approval of any changes to the Companys constitutional Group Chief Executive and the Schedule of Matters reserved documentation.
7 Approval of the Groups financial, taxation and treasury 13 Responsibility for establishing Committees of the Board, management policies, dividend policy, long term financing, annual approving their terms of reference, regularly reviewing their budget and operating plans.
activities, and where appropriate, ratifying decisions.
8 Approval of material capital projects, investments, acquisitions, 14 Approval of all minutes of Board and Committee meetings.
15 Responsibility for internal control, risk management, health and 9 Approval of any significant change in accounting, tax or treasury safety matters and corporate social responsibility.
com Meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Annual and Board Committee Committee Committee General Mtgs Director Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss Act Poss 1 Sir Patrick Brown 88 44 4 42 22 2 Rupert Pennant-Rea 88 44 44 22 22 Andrew Allner 88 44 44 22 22 2 2 Keith Ludeman 88 4 44 42 22 2 2 Nick Swift 88 4 40 00 02 2 Act Actual Poss Possible 1 Sir Patrick Brown attended three meetings of the Remuneration Committee as the Chairman of the Committee prior to October 2009 when he was replaced as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by Rupert Pennant-Rea.
Since then, Sir Patrick Brown attended one further meeting of the Remuneration Committee as a member only.
2 Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift attended the stated number of meetings by invitation of the relevant Committee.
Keith Ludemans attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings was on a part-meeting basis where discussions were held in respect of his own remuneration.
Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors tenure Chairman 0-3 years Sir Patrick Brown Andrew Allner Katherine Innes Ker Independent Non-Executive Directors Andrew Allner 6-9 years Rupert Pennant-Rea Rupert Pennant-Rea Katherine Innes Ker 9 years Sir Patrick Brown Executive Directors Keith Ludeman NB: There is currently no 3-6 year category Nick Swift Appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 9 July 2010. with effect from 9 July 2010.
Board balance and independence Group Company Secretary The Board regularly considers whether the Executive and NonCarolyn Sephton, who was appointed in July 2006, is the Group Executive Directors together have the range of skills, knowledge Company Secretary.
Her biography can be found on page 52. and experience to enable them to promote shareholders interests She is Secretary to the Board and all of its Committees.
The Group and govern the business effectively.
Excluding the Chairman, more Company Secretary reports to the Company Chairman in her role than half of the Board are Non-Executive Directors who bring a as Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
For all other company wide range of experience and objectivity to the Boardroom.
The secretariat matters, including the management of the Groups non-rail Executive Directors bring additional perspective to the Boards pension arrangements, she reports to the Group Finance Director.
work through a deep understanding of the Groups business.
The The Group Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors at the date of ensuring that Board procedures are complied with, facilitating this report is shown above.
This includes Katherine Innes Ker, who effective communication flows within the Board and its Committees, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director after the year end on 9 as well as the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to July 2010. the Board ahead of meetings.
Responsibilities also include ensuring In accordance with the Combined Code, the Chairman was that the Board is regularly updated on matters of corporate considered independent on his appointment and the Board governance, legislative changes and regulatory regimes affecting the considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be robustly Group.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company independent in character and judgement in accordance with the Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board also regularly All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group assesses the other commitments of the Non-Executive Directors Company Secretary and may also take independent professional and is satisfied that there are no conflicts of duties and that the advice at the Groups expense, if they believe it necessary for the Non-Executives have sufficient time to fulfil their responsibilities to proper discharge of their duties as Directors.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD It is important that the Board ensures planned and progressive During the year, the Nomination Committee commenced a selection refreshing of the Board.
The balance of experience of the Nonprocess for the appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Executive Directors, in terms of their length of tenure at the date of Director.
An external search agency was appointed to assist in the the approval of this report, is shown above.
This includes Katherine identification of suitable candidates.
After interviewing a number of Innes Ker, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director after potential candidates the Committee unanimously proposed, and the the year end on 9 July 2010.
Board unanimously approved, the appointment of Katherine Innes Ker with effect from 9 July 2010.
As explained on page 56, an induction process for Katherine Innes Ker is currently underway.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Performance evaluation process Questionnaire Interview Board meeting Completed by each Director and Each Director meets Chairman presents findings and reviewed by the Chairman with Chairman discusses at Board meeting As is the case for all of Go-Aheads Non-Executive Directors, Katherine Rupert Pennant-Rea became a Non-Executive Director of the Board in Innes Ker has not been appointed for a specified term.
He was appointed Senior Independent Director in 2008 and accordance with the Combined Code, she will stand for election by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2009.
Rupert is well shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting and for re-election known to investors and financial professionals and available to annually thereafter.
Katherine has significant Executive and Nonshareholders in his role as Senior Independent Director as required.
The Executive experience of helping to grow successful and dynamic Board recommends unanimously his re-election for a further year.
organisations and has considerable experience as a financial analyst, Andrew Allner became a Non-Executive Director of the Board in 2008 qualifying her to make an effective contribution to the Board.
Her and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andrew is a chartered biography can be found on page 52.
The Board recommends accountant with extensive recent financial experience and the Board unanimously to shareholders that Katherine Innes Ker is elected as a recommends unanimously his re-election for a further year.
Non-Executive Director at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
Keith Ludeman joined the Board as an Executive Director in 2004 and PERFORMANCE EVALUATION became Group Chief Executive in July 2006.
Along with his industryEach year an evaluation of the performance of the Board, its wide experience, Keith has been a main Board advisor since 1998 and Committees, individual Directors and the Group Company Secretary is has brought a continuation of the management style synonymous with undertaken.
As shown above, the Boards evaluation was carried out by the success of the Group.
The Board recommends unanimously that the Chairman this year and was based on the completion of a tailored Keith Ludeman be re-elected for a further year.
Following individual meetings with the Nick Swift was appointed as Group Finance Director in July 2007.
Nick Chairman, the results of the evaluation were reported back to the is a chartered accountant and brought extensive experience in investor Board as a whole.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure that relations, tax and treasury from a number of senior corporate and the Board, its Committees and each individual Director continued to act operational finance roles before joining Go-Ahead.
The Board recommends effectively and to fulfil the duties and responsibilities expected of them, unanimously that Nick Swift be re-elected for a further year.
in addition to identifying any additional training requirements.
Further details of each Director can be found in the Directors The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, biographies on page 52. were responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS No significant issues were raised in the course of the evaluation process.
The Group recognises the importance of regular communication It is anticipated that the evaluation of the Board will be carried out by with all of its shareholders.
The reporting calendar is dominated by an external consultant next year.
the publication of the annual and half year results each year.
In addition, the interim management and trading statements provide RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS shareholders with a balanced and regular understanding of the The Board is pleased to adopt early the provision of the new UK Groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
Corporate Governance Code which requires all directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
At this The Executive Directors meet with the Groups major shareholders years Annual General Meeting, Sir Patrick Brown, Rupert Pennant-Rea, both institutional investors and private shareholders with significant Andrew Allner, Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift will stand for re-election.
holdings after the announcement of annual and half year results and Katherine Innes Ker will stand for election.
at other times as appropriate.
Such meetings include site visits and management presentations such as that which took place earlier in The Boards annual performance evaluation confirmed that each the year regarding the proposal to alter the restrictions on borrowings Director standing for re-election continued to contribute effectively and imposed by the current Articles of Association of the Company.
demonstrated commitment to the role.
In addition to the meetings with Executive Directors, institutional Sir Patrick Brown joined the Board in 1999 as a Non-Executive shareholders are offered the opportunity of meetings with the NonDirector and became Non-Executive Chairman in 2002.
The institutional shareholders have further recognises his industry-wide experience and long-standing contribution opportunities to make their views known through follow-up to the Board and unanimously recommends that he should be reinterviews with the Companys brokers which are then documented elected for a further year.
com and circulated to the Board.
The Executive Directors provide feedback procedures are regularly reviewed by the Directors who consider that to the Board following presentations to investors and an independent they accord with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
These survey of shareholder opinion was also undertaken during the year.
procedures have been in place during the financial year ended 3 July 2010 and up to the date of the approval of this report.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting, which is During the year, the Group continued to improve the identification, attended by all Directors.
All shareholders are invited to attend the management and reporting of risk, with a focus on the evaluation of Annual General Meeting which provides an opportunity for key risks to each operating companys own objectives and the shareholders to develop their understanding of the Company and efficiency of the controls in place to mitigate those risks.
Risks are ask questions on the matters put to the meeting as detailed in the assessed both at an operating company level and for materiality in Notice of Meeting sent to registered shareholders in advance of the the context of the whole Group, in addition to being used to meeting.
There is also an opportunity to meet informally with the develop part of the internal audit plan for the year ahead.
Directors before and after the meeting.
The Board encourages all Assessment is on an ongoing basis, taking into account changes in shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Through monthly meetings with the Executive Directors, the key risks and mitigating controls facing Ordinary business which is raised for consideration at the Annual the Group are able to be kept under regular review.
General Meeting each year includes: The principle risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed To receive the financial statements for the year, together with the on pages 22 to 25.
Directors and Auditors Reports: During the year, the Group has also strengthened its ongoing To approve the Directors Remuneration Report: processes for internal controls.
The key features of the internal To approve the final dividend: control system, which have been established to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets of the Group, are described To elect and re-elect members of the Board: as follows: To re-appoint the Companys Auditor: and To give the Directors the authority to determine the The Boards responsibilities Auditors remuneration.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups Other matters included on the agenda for the Annual General Policy and Procedures Manual is designed to strengthen the Groups Meeting vary from year to year in accordance with the requirements corporate governance, internal control processes and management of the Company.
All operating companies must adhere to this Manual and The Company maintains a comprehensive website that provides a annually certify that they have done so.
In addition, the Board gains wealth of information including access to the annual and half year assurance from the Groups structure and the financial, risk reports, presentations, useful fact sheets, as well as share price and management, operating and compliance reporting processes which general shareholder information.
Shareholders can contact the are in place.
The Board has also developed an understanding of its Company using the email communication system available on the risk appetite which supports the Groups strategy and objectives, Companys website.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT Board-level reporting on internal control The Board as a whole, supported by the Audit Committee, has The Board is supported by the work of the Audit Committee which responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of has delegated responsibility from the Board for reviewing the internal controls, including the financial, operational and compliance effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control controls and risk management systems.
The Board has established systems.
During the year the Audit Committee regularly reviewed procedures to provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and reports from the internal auditors, the external auditors and the managing the significant risks facing the Group and has established the Executive Directors on matters relating to internal controls, financial procedures necessary to meet the requirements of the Code and its reporting and risk management.
The Audit Committee provides the related guidance on internal controls.
The effectiveness of these The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Board with an independent assessment of the Groups position and Risk management processes the Board receives regular updates on how specific risks that are As part of the Groups Manual, and in accordance with the Turnbull assessed as material are being managed.
guidance on internal controls, an ongoing process has been established for the identification and evaluation of the significant risks Group structure faced by the Group and the effectiveness of the internal controls in The Groups decentralised organisation structure enables the place.
During the year, and in conjunction with the internal auditors, Executive Directors to play an active role in communicating the , the Group continued to strengthen its objectives, risk strategy and policy of the Group.
Open ongoing risk management processes, which includes top-down risk communication on risk matters is encouraged and performance is assessment at Group level and bottom-up risk assessments at monitored against objectives.
Risk management is an integral part of operating company level.
A bespoke risk categorisation model exists day-to-day operations where there exists clear ownership of risk which is used across the Group to ensure that risks are identified and identification and mitigation at operating company level.
Operating reported on a consistent basis and a process is in place to aggregate companies are fully supported by the Executive Directors in assessing key risks on a Group-wide basis.
These key procedures ensure that and managing risks and internal controls.
Because of the the impact of key and emerging risks are addressed, with controls organisational structure, risk management information can also be and mitigations monitored at monthly operating company board shared across the Group as well as reported upwards.
A consolidated review of the Groups risks and controls is undertaken by the Audit Committee at least annually.
Financial reporting and planning processes As part of the Groups Policy and Procedures Manual, there are formally Health and safety reporting processes defined lines of financial reporting responsibility, delegated authorities, Health and safety standards have been established across all capital investment approval policies and clear operating processes.
operating companies and key performance indicators are closely Monthly reporting of financial information to the Board encompasses monitored at monthly operating company board meetings.
The profit and loss, cashflow and balance sheet information and key operating Group Chief Executive reports on health and safety, which includes ratios.
The annual budgeting and strategic planning process includes key performance indicators, at each Board meeting.
regular re-forecasting of results, taking into account key risks and opportunities.
Group internal audit The Groups internal auditors, , provide The use of the Groups Manual by finance teams throughout the assurance as to the effectiveness of key controls identified as part of Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and the risk assessment process.
In addition to meetings with local measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that management, the internal auditors report on a monthly basis to the information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the Executive Directors and to the Audit Committee at least three times reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all a year.
operating companies in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and production of the consolidated financial statements.
maintaining the Groups system of internal control and for ensuring its effectiveness.
As with any system of internal controls, the policies There is also regular reporting to the Board on specific matters and processes in place throughout the Group are designed to including safety, insurance, pensions, tax and treasury management.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Business planning encompasses due diligence and risk assessments Groups strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not where businesses are being acquired or divested and all projects and absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There have partnerships are entered into taking into account an appropriate riskbeen no material weaknesses identified that require specific reward balance.
disclosure in the Groups Annual Report.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
com Reviewing the relationship with the external and internal auditors, COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD including their terms of engagement and fees, independence, The Board has established a number of Committees to deal with objectivity and expertise, resources and qualification: specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
The responsibilities of each Committee are determined by its terms of reference which are Receiving and reviewing reports from management relating to available on the Companys website or upon request from the the annual and half year profit figures and statements, reviewing Group Company Secretary.
the effectiveness of the financial reporting, the controls in force and the key judgemental areas at the half year and year end to AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders: The Committee continued to improve the effectiveness of risk Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control management and internal controls policies and procedures for the identification, assessment and Andrew Allner Audit Committee Chairman reporting of risk, as outlined on pages 61 and 62: Advising the Board on the appointment of the external auditors and considering their remuneration for both audit and non-audit work: and Members: Reviewing the whistle blowing arrangements in place across the Andrew Allner Committee Chairman Group, and approving new procedures to ensure compliance Non-Executive Director with the new Bribery Act 2010.
Rupert Pennant-Rea Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Under the Combined Code, at least one member of the Katherine Innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience.
As a chartered accountant, and previously the Group Finance Committee Secretary Director of another listed company between 2004 and 2007, Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary Andrew Allner fully satisfies this requirement.
At least once a year, the Non-Executive Directors meet with the Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: external auditors, without the Executive Directors being present.
Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman Keith Ludeman Group Chief Executive Policy on the Auditors providing non-audit services In order to ensure auditor objectivity and independence, the provision Nick Swift Group Finance Director of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if Internal Auditors representative s the fees exceed a level set by the Audit Committee are subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
The Committee has specified that External Auditors representative s the external audit firm may not provide certain categories of nonaudit services to the Group as detailed in the Committees terms of reference.
The Committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness, RESPONSIBILITIES independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
During the During the year the Committee met four times and, as part of the financial year, the audit fees of the external auditor were 0.5m and annual performance evaluation process, also undertook a specific their fees for non-audit work in relation to continuing operations only evaluation of its effectiveness.
The main activities undertaken during were 0.3m.
In comparison, non-audit fees paid to other audit firms the year included: during the financial year were 0.3m.
Receiving and reviewing reports from the Groups External and Internal Auditors, including health and safety auditors: The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE C CO ON NT TIIN NU UE ED D Review of the External Auditors NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and recommends The Committee proposed to the Board the audit fees to be paid to the external auditors.
to the Board the appointment The Boards decision on these matters is subject to the approval of Katherine Innes Ker during of shareholders.
the year Sir Patrick Brown Nomination Comitttee Chairman The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors is reviewed by the Committee and during the year discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement, Members: remuneration and proposal for partner rotation.
The Senior Sir Patrick Brown Committee Chairman Statutory Auditor is Debbie OHanlon.
The appointment of the Company Chairman Senior Statutory Auditor is rotated every five years and, on this basis, the 2009 10 audit will be the last year of Debbie OHanlons Rupert Pennant-Rea Senior Independent Non-Executive Director tenure.
From the 2010 11 audit, subject to shareholders approval Andrew Allner Non-Executive Director at the 2010 Annual General Meeting, Debbie OHanlon will be replaced by Kath Barrow.
Katherine Innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 Keith Ludeman Group Chief Executive Whistle Blowing Policy The Group is committed to the highest standards of quality, Committee Secretary honesty, openness and accountability and a whistle blowing policy Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary has been issued to all operating companies to ensure a consistent approach across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns under the policy and any concerns raised are investigated carefully and thoroughly to assess what action, if any, RESPONSIBILITIES should be taken.
Any matters of significance are reported to the The majority of members of the Nomination Committee are NonAudit Committee.
During the year, no issues of significance Executive Directors.
During the year, the Committee met two were raised.
times not including interviews with potential candidates and, as part of the annual performance evaluation process, also undertook a specific evaluation of its effectiveness.
The main activities CHANGES TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEES CONSTITUTION undertaken during the year included: Following the appointment of Katherine Innes Ker as NonExecutive Director on 9 July 2010, the constitution of the Audit Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board: Committee is now fully compliant with the provisions of the Recommending to the Board, the membership and chairmanship Combined Code.
of Committees: The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the the Groups website at www.
com or upon request from Board and its Committees: the Group Company Secretary.
Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable candidates to fill vacancies for Board appointments: and Planning for the orderly succession of new Directors to the Board.
com The Committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments Determining the overall remuneration policy including the balance and is responsible for leading the process of identifying candidates for between fixed and performance-related elements of pay : Board appointment and making recommendations to the Board in Determining the additional discretionary cash & deferred share accordance with the needs of the Company and best practice in awards and the additional performance related cash bonus payable corporate governance from time to time.
for the achievement of specific strategic targets: During the year, in consultation with an external search consultancy, Determining the fees of the Chairman: the Committee met to discuss the appointment of a new NonExecutive Director.
After interviewing a number of potential Reviewing the operation and continued appropriateness of the candidates, the Committee unanimously proposed, and the Board Long Term Incentive Plan, as well as performance conditions and approved, that Katherine Innes Ker be appointed as Non-Executive awards made: Director with effect from 9 July 2010.
Reviewing the vesting of awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan: The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available Reviewing the vesting of the pension arrangements for the Group on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request from Chief Executive: the Group Company Secretary.
Reviewing the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT and Receiving and reviewing reports from the Group Chief Executive on The Committees constitution salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management of each is now compliant with the operating company and senior Group personnel.
Combined Code Rupert Pennant-Rea Members of the Committee and any person attending its meetings Remuneration Committee Chairman do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
Members: CHANGES TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES Rupert Pennant-Rea Committee Chairman CONSTITUTION Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Rupert Pennant-Rea who is Senior Independent Director replaced the Chairman of the Company as Chairman of the Remuneration Sir Patrick Brown Company Chairman Committee in October 2009.
The Chairman of the Board remains a Andrew Allner Non-Executive Director member of the Remuneration Committee.
Katherine Innes Ker Non-Executive Director from 9 July 2010 Following the appointment of Katherine Innes Ker as Non-Executive Director on 9 July 2010, the constitution of the Remuneration Committee Secretary Committee is now fully compliant with the provisions of the Carolyn Sephton Group Company Secretary Combined Code.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available Meetings also regularly attended, by invitation, by: on the Groups website at www.
com or upon request from Keith Ludeman Group Chief Executive the Group Company Secretary.
Full details of remuneration policy can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 72.
RESPONSIBILITIES During the year the Remuneration Committee met four times and, as part of the annual performance evaluation process, also undertook a specific evaluation of its effectiveness.
The Committee is responsible for all aspects of remuneration.
The key responsibilities and activities of the Committee during the year included: The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
