Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 82 coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce Governance structure The board The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, and that the objectivity and integrity of members should be exemplary.
The board currently comprises a non-executive chairman, four other non-executive directors and two executive directors.
The directors biographies are on page 28.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the board and to re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter.
The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The job descriptions are available on request.
The chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
The chief executive has responsibility for executing the companys strategy and achieving operational and financial goals.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for its decision, including approval of the long-term objectives and strategy, approval of budgets and financial statements including the report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the structure of the group and overall corporate governance issues.
It reviews trading performance and considers major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation of the companys strategy.
Information and training Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to properly discharge its functions.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and are provided with the opportunity to question management as required.
The training needs of the board are regularly reviewed.
Explanations of issues and legislative changes affecting the industry have been provided to the board during the year.
There is an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The company has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
Newly-appointed directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the company.
This takes the form of meetings with other board members and the provision of an induction pack containing general information on the company, its policies and procedures, financial information and a briefing on directors responsibilities.
Performance evaluation The board believes it is appropriate to undertake a regular performance evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
It has determined that an internal process of evaluation is most appropriate, to enable first hand input from individual directors to be obtained.
An evaluation exercise was undertaken in January and February 2010, with the results reported to the board at the March board meeting.
The evaluation was conducted by means of questionnaires circulated to all members, the results of which were then discussed between the chairman and chief executive.
The questionnaire covered a range of topics including board structure and composition, board processes, corporate governance, composition and effectiveness of its committees and communications with shareholders and analysts.
As a result of the evaluation some changes will be made to the board agenda, to ensure that a wide range of topics can be discussed.
The board has confirmed that it is satisfied that it and its committees are operating effectively.
Between evaluation exercises an open dialogue exists between all board members enabling issues to be raised and dealt with as they occur.
The performance of the executive directors is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction with their annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
The performance of Tim Bridge, chairman, was reviewed by the non-executive directors, led by Norman Murray, the senior independent non-executive director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Independence of non-executive directors The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are carefully examined and fully discussed.
Their independence and objectivity are of paramount importance.
The board believes that they all have a range of skills and experience which will help the company and that their understanding of the company, its strategy and operations increases over the years.
The board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship with the executive management which could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgment, and that they all remained independent in character and judgment.
None of the independent non-executive directors participates in the share option schemes or long-term incentive plan operated by the company and none was dependent on the fees received from the company as their primary source of income.
Norman Murray is the senior independent non-executive director.
Norman was appointed to the board in January 2004, has never been employed by the company and has had diverse business interests.
The board considers that he has remained independent from management in both character and judgment, that his performance has been effective and that he has demonstrated commitment to the role.
A key responsibility for the senior independent director is to be available to shareholders in the event that they may feel it inappropriate to relay views through the chairman, chief executive or finance director.
Tim Bridge took over as chairman of the board in May 2005.
The board noted that, because of his long tenure as an executive director, he did not meet all of the independence criteria set out in the combined code.
However, the board was, and remains, confident that the strength of character and independent judgment that he exhibited as chief executive continues in his role as chairman.
The board is satisfied that his performance as chairman is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
He is also a non-executive director of William Ransom & Son plc and during the year was a non-executive director of Weatherbys Ventures Limited, but these are not regarded as significant commitments and do not impact upon his ability to perform his role as chairman effectively.
Governance Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 83 Governance structure continued meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held eight times a year.
There is also a strategy day for the board each year.
Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact to progress the companys business and, if necessary, board meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters which it is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board meetings.
If directors are unable to attend meetings they are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting.
The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board committee committee committee 8 3 6 2 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings held during 200910 attended attended attended attended Executive directors Rooney Anand 8 1 Justin Adams 7 Ian Bull 8 2 David Elliott 5 3 Jonathan Lawson 7 Non-executive directors Tim Bridge 8 2 John Brady 8 3 2 Ian Durant 7 2 5 Norman Murray 8 6 2 Jane Scriven 8 3 6 During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
Not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
1 Justin Adams resigned as a director on 30 April 2010.
The number of board meetings he attended is up to and including that date.
2 David Elliott resigned as a director on 31 January 2010.
3 Jonathan Lawson resigned as a director on 30 April 2010.
Conflicts of interest The board has the right, under the articles of association, to approve potential situational conflicts of interest.
A small number of such potential conflicts have been approved by the board following disclosure by certain directors, in each case with the relevant director not taking part in any decision relating to their own position.
Directors are also aware that the disclosure and authorisation of any potential conflict situation does not detract from their requirement to notify the board separately of an actual or potential conflict in relation to a proposed transaction by the company.
The board keeps its authorisations under review on a regular basis.
Board committees The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference governing its method of operation.
Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request and will be available for inspection at the AGM, reflect the provisions of the combined code and have been approved by the board.
Set out below are reports from each of the nomination committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
nomination committee report During the year the nomination committee was chaired by Tim Bridge, and the other members of the committee were Norman Murray and John Brady, appointed to the committee in June 2009.
Apart from the chairman, all members were considered by the board to be independent.
The committees role is to propose candidates for appointment to the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
The board changes which became effective on 30 April 2010, when Justin Adams and Jonathan Lawson stepped down from the board whilst retaining their management responsibilities, were overseen and approved by the nomination committee.
The decision was taken in order to achieve parity in the management structure of the company, given that prior to the changes only two of the five divisional managing directors were members of the board.
No new appointments were made to the board during the year.
The committee met twice during the year and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attended both meetings.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
The nomination committee undertakes a review of all directors who are due for re-election to determine whether or not to recommend their re-appointment.
Members of the committee do not participate in discussions regarding their own re-appointment.
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 84 coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce Board committees continued Audit committee report The audit committee was chaired during the year by Ian Durant.
The other members of the committee were Jane Scriven and John Brady.
All members are considered by the board to be independent.
The board is satisfied that Ian Durant has recent and relevant financial experience, as the former finance director of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC, formerly Liberty International plc.
The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full year audit and the interim results in each case prior to their submission to the board.
It is responsible for reviewing the companys internal financial control systems, advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures and considering the need for a full internal audit function.
It also reviews the groups risk management policies and procedures prior to submission to the board and receives detailed reports on the risk management functions within the business units.
The committee had three meetings during the year and on each occasion the finance director and senior members of the finance function attended.
The external auditors attended all of the meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets privately with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the company.
The committee reviews the audit plan presented by the auditors before the start of each audit cycle and agrees the scope of the audit work.
During the audit process the committee keeps under review the consistency of accounting policies on a year to year basis and across the group, and the methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions.
The financial statements and interim results are reviewed in detail prior to their submission to the board.
Following the audit the committee discusses issues arising from the audit, and any matters the auditors may wish to discuss.
The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
During the year the company made limited use of specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work such as taxation advice and transaction support.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work.
The company will award non-audit work to the firm which provides the best commercial solution for the work in question.
Pieces of work estimated to be in excess of 25,000 are put out to tender unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
The finance director may approve specific engagements up to 50,000 and 100,000 cumulatively, and the chairman of the audit committee may approve engagements, up to 100,000 and 200,000 cumulatively, with fees in excess of those limits being subject to approval of the full committee.
The companys internal audit function focuses primarliy on the groups managed house divisions, where the greatest financial risks are perceived to exist.
Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of financial risks involved are felt to be such that a wider internal audit function is not required.
Remuneration committee report The remuneration committee was chaired during the year by Norman Murray, and the other members were Jane Scriven and Ian Durant.
All the members are considered by the board to be independent.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the chairman and fixing the total individual remuneration package of each of the executive directors, considering the granting of share options and awards under the long-term incentive plan and determining bonuses payable to the executive directors.
The remuneration committee met six times during the year.
The chairman and the chief executive, at the request of the committee, attend its meetings.
The chairman does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
The chief executive is consulted by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Details of the companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 75 to 81.
Communication with shareholders Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the principal media used.
Both are made available to all shareholders.
In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a means of communicating directly with private shareholders, who have the full opportunity to ask questions.
The board aims to ensure that all members of the board, including in particular the chairmen of the board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with both the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders a minimum of 20 working days before the meeting.
Governance Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 85 Communication with shareholders continued There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief executive on the meetings he and the finance director have with principal shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive director, Norman Murray, has been available to shareholders if they have had concerns about governance issues which the normal channels of contact have failed to resolve.
The company maintains a website www.
co. uk to provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor relations section.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for presentations to investment analysts.
Internal control The board acknowledges its responsibility for the groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not to eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and has formalised the control environment needed to address these and other issues.
There are processes in place which are in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
The board has adopted a formal risk policy and regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, including key performance indicator data on the significant risks faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective management of risk throughout the business at their regular meetings.
This group oversees the development of risk management strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular reports on risk issues within the business.
The board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment of the risk and control environment in place during the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, based on detailed reports from, and subsequent discussions with, senior management.
No significant problems were disclosed in these reports.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below: internal control and risk management process G The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the significant risks faced.
Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
Any issues arising from this process are discussed with operational management as needed.
Appropriate steps are then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
internal audit G The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, the audit committee assesses the scope of the internal audit function within the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Information and financial reporting systems G The groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures include annual detailed operational budgets and a three year strategic plan, both of which are reviewed and approved by the board.
Performance against the budgets is monitored, and relevant action taken, throughout the year, through the periodic reporting of detailed management accounts and key performance indicators.
Forecasts are updated during the course of the year.
With a centralised financial reporting system, transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies, and all relevant information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a reporting pack by all business units in the group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated accounts.
capital and project control G There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the original plan.
Certain transactions are reserved for approval by the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of authority have been identified for employees.
External audit G The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and interim review.
Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 86 coRpoRAte GoveRnAnce Statement of compliance The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
Although the 2010 version of the Combined Code will not apply to the company until the financial year beginning on 2 May 2011, the board will review its requirements and work towards compliance in due course.
The board considers that the company has complied with the 2008 Combined Code throughout the year, except in the following areas: A.
3.2 requires that at least half of the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
From the beginning of the year until 31 January 2010, when David Elliott retired, this requirement was not met, in that during that period the board comprised the chairman, four non-executive directors and five executive directors.
With the retirement of David Elliott and the subsequent stepping down from the board of Justin Adams and Jonathan Lawson, the board now complies with this clause of the code.
4.1 requires the majority of members of the nomination committee to be independent non-executive directors.
From the beginning of the year until June 2009, this requirement was not met, in that the nomination committee had just two members, only one of whom was deemed to be independent.
During that part of the year no committee meetings were held.
In June 2009 a third member, John Brady, whom the board regard as independent, was appointed and the requirement was met.
The information required by DTR 7.1 and DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, except for information required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the directors report.
