Corporate Governance continued Companys external auditors effectively as an Audit Committee.
the specification for all Board and review the effectiveness and The Committee also has access appointments, identifying candidates objectivity of the audit process.
to the Group financial team and who meet that specification and to its auditors and can seek making recommendations to During the year, the Committee, in further professional advice, at the the Board on the basis of merit performing these functions, reviewed Companys cost, if required.
and compliance with objective the annual and interim accounts criteria in respect of all new Board issued to shareholders: compliance The Remuneration Committee appointments.
with financial reporting standards currently consists entirely of and the size and remit of the internal independent non-executive In recruiting additional directors audit function.
The Committee directors Julie Baddeley Chair, the Nominations Committee also considered and made Bob Bennett, Roger Whiteside and defines the role and uses external recommendations to the Board in Iain Ferguson.
The Committees consultants to assist in identifying relation to the independence and main duties which it discharged suitable candidates from which objectivity of the external auditors during the year are to determine the the Committee selects a shortlist including the impact of any nonbasic salary, benefits in kind, terms and conducts interviews.
The final audit work undertaken by them and and conditions of employment, candidate is then subject to formal their suitability for re-appointment.
performance-related bonuses, recommendation by the Committee The Audit Committee reviewed share options and pension benefits and approval by the Board.
the scope of the external audit in of the executive directors and the Each of the Committees is provided discussion with the external auditors Chairman on behalf of the Board.
with sufficient resources to and agreed their fees in respect of The Committee is also responsible undertake its duties.
for the operation of the Companys share option schemes and for The Committee normally meets monitoring the framework for broad with the Chief Executive, Finance policy in respect of, and levels of Director, the external auditors, and remuneration of, the Companys more recently the Internal Audit senior management.
A separate Manager in attendance, although executive director committee sets, time is set aside annually for after discussion with the Chairman, discussion between the Committee the fees for the non-executive and the external auditors and directors so as to ensure that no with the Internal Audit Manager, director is involved in setting his or in each case in the absence of all her own remuneration.
The Committee Remuneration Report is set out on has the power to engage outside pages 72 to 83 of this annual report.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the The Nominations Committee effectiveness of internal audit activity currently comprises Derek Netherton and the risk management process.
- Chairman, and all of the nonexecutive directors.
The Committees The Combined Code requires the main functions which it discharged Board to be satisfied that at least during the year are to review the one member of the Audit Committee balance and constitution of the has recent and relevant financial Board: to advise the Board as to experience the Board is satisfied whether directors retiring by rotation in this respect and is confident should be nominated for re-election that the collective experience of by the members: and to approve the members enables them to act and manage the process for setting 24
