Audit Committee Report Members Jane Aikman Chairman Stephen Pettit Richard Stone The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Responsibilities The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgments contained therein: oversight of risk management including the review of the Groups financial, operational and compliance internal controls as well as whistleblowing procedures: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration the periodic rotation of audit personnel and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The full terms of reference, which were subject to minor revision in the year to reflect the changes in the Internal Audit function, can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Governance The Audit Committee was in place throughout the financial year with Jane Aikman as the chair.
All three members are independent non-executive Directors in accordance with provision A.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and representatives from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee routinely meets the Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors: the Committee meets at least three times per year.
During the year attendance by Committee members at meetings was as follows: Name Attendance Jane Aikman Chairman 3 of 3 Richard Stone 3 of 3 Stephen Pettit 3 of 3 The Board has designated Jane Aikman as the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Her background is as a chartered accountant and finance director with listed company experience.
Halma p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 Audit Committee Report continued Activities The Committee not only reviews the financial reporting of the Company, but spends a significant amount of its time reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control process.
Combined with the Committees review of the internal and external audit functions, it is able to obtain sufficient information to discharge its responsibilities.
More specifically, the Committee: reviewed the 3 April 2010 report and financial statements, the 3 October 2009 half-yearly report and the Interim Management Statements issued in July 2009 and February 2010.
As part of these reviews the Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the Annual report and financial statements: considered the quality of the reports and the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the auditors: evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditors: agreed the terms of engagement and fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the 3 April 2010 financial statements: reviewed its own effectiveness: evaluated the performance of the Internal Audit function: agreed a programme of work for the Companys Internal Audit function: and received reports from the Internal Audit Coordinator on the work undertaken by Internal Audit and management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
The independent auditors, Deloitte LLP, were appointed in 2003.
The Committee has considered the risk of the withdrawal of their independent auditors from the market and has concluded that the risk is small.
During 2010 a review of their independence was undertaken, and the Committee concluded that the independence criteria under the relevant standards continued to be met.
At the year-end the auditors formally confirmed that their independence and objectivity has been maintained.
In addition, they are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The audit partner responsible for the Group audit will change as part of the rotation process in 2013.
In 2010 11 the Audit Committee will determine whether to tender for the audit work in 2011.
There are no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
Accordingly, the Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the Companys independent auditors be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in July 2010.
The Groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for the Group Internal Audit Coordinator to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters for reporting to the Audit Committee as appropriate.
On behalf of the Audit Committee Jane Aikman Chairman 22 June 2010 Halma p. l. c. 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report Governance
