directors report governance: AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT monitor the relationship with the Companys Auditor, including Dear shareholder consideration of its fees, the audit scope and the terms of its The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the engagement: non-executive directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the June 2008 review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit Combined Code on Corporate Governance the 2008 Code as well as the Auditors independence: published by the Financial Reporting Council.
Further information review the policy on engagement of the Auditor for the on the 2008 Code can be found on the Financial Reporting provision of non-audit services and monitor compliance: Councils website, frc.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then review the Companys internal control and risk management referred to the Board for approval.
systems: Composition of the Audit Committee monitor the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit Paul Harrison, an independent non-executive director, chairs function: and the Audit Committee.
Lesley Knox, William Eccleshare and Paul Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout the year.
ensure the Company maintains suitable arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Paul Harrison, a Chartered Accountant, is the Group Finance Activities of the Audit Committee Director of The Sage Group plc.
As such, he is considered suitably The Committee met four times during the financial year ended qualified to be the Audit Committee Chairman.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 51. both formal and by experience of the other members of the Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities on page 45. as follows: At the invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Financial statements Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Head of The Audit Committee reviewed the draft annual financial Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and external Auditor statements and half year report prior to recommending their regularly attend meetings.
The Committee discussed with the executive directors and external Auditor the appropriateness Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the of accounting polices adopted, significant estimates and Committee and the Chairman of the Board, who is not a member judgements, whether the financial statements gave a true and fair of the Committee, and they recommend new appointments to view and the appropriateness of the going concern assumption.
the Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
The Committee comprises four independent non-executive External Auditor directors and two members constitute a quorum.
The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Role of the Audit Committee Board for approval by the shareholders the appointment of During the year, the Committee reviewed the Audit Committee the external Auditor.
Deloitte LLP is the external Auditor of terms of reference.
These were considered to be in line with best the Company and, under ethical guidance, they are required practice and no changes were necessary.
The terms of reference to introduce a new audit partner every five years.
The current of the Audit Committee are published on the Companys website, audit partner has been in place for four years.
com and are also available from the Company Secretary In line with its terms of reference, the Committee undertook a at the Registered Office.
thorough annual assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP, seeking The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: the views and feedback of the Audit Committee and fellow monitor the appropriateness of the financial statements and Board members, together with those of Group and divisional formal announcements relating to the financial performance management.
There are no contractual restrictions on the including any significant judgements: Committee as to the choice of external Auditor.
recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders, The Committee considered the scope and materiality for the the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the audit work, considered the audit fee, reviewed the results of external Auditor: the Auditors work and considered the Auditors performance and effectiveness.
The risk of the Auditor withdrawing from the market was also considered.
40 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements The Committee met the external Auditor twice during the year During the year, the Committee reviewed the performance and effectiveness of the Head of Internal Audit and the Internal Audit without management being present.
function through an internal review process, which sought views The Committee reviewed the policy on the engagement of the from a number of internal stakeholders.
The Committee also Auditor for non-audit services and confirmed the applicability reviewed the independence and objectivity of Internal Audit of that policy in satisfying itself that their independence and and its activities, including the annual audit plan and resource objectivity was not impaired.
The plan has delivered both geographic and financial coverage, as well as risk-based assurance in support The key features of this policy are as follows: of non-financial topics such as HR processes, finance system work closely related to the audit e. g. taxation or financial implementations and contract management capabilities.
reporting matters can be awarded to the Auditor by the executive directors provided the work does not exceed Internal Audit reports include recommendations to improve 150,000 in fees per item: and internal controls and management action plans to address any issues.
At each meeting, the Committee received details all other work either requires Audit Committee approval of outstanding audit recommendations and those that were or forms part of a list of prohibited services where it is overdue, with management comments on progress made.
felt independence or objectivity may be impaired.
The Committee also met the Head of Internal Audit twice during The Committee has reviewed the non-audit services performed the year without management being present.
by Deloitte LLP in the year and has concluded that the policy has been applied and their independence and objectivity has Raising concerns in confidence not been impaired as a result.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups procedures enabling and their associates during the financial year are set out in note 7 employees to raise concerns in confidence.
Employees are to the financial statements on page 78. able to raise concerns or report compliance issues through an independent third-party organisation.
The Committee receives After due and careful consideration, taking account of the reports of any serious concerns raised at each meeting.
processes above, the Committee has recommended to the Board Audit Committee effectiveness that Deloitte LLP be re-appointed as the Companys Auditor at The Audit Committee undertook its own annual performance the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2010. evaluation, which concluded that the Committee has acted in Risk management and internal control accordance with its terms of reference, is operating effectively The Audit Committee reviewed the Companys risk management and met all legal and regulatory requirements.
and internal control systems by considering the Groups risk assessment process which included detail of the extent The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the of coverage, the assessment methods employed and the 2010 Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about effectiveness of the controls to mitigate those risks.
It also the work of the Committee.
considered the results of testing performed by both the On behalf of the Audit Committee.
internal and external audit teams in evaluating the effectiveness of such controls.
Internal Audit and risk P S Harrison The Audit Committee oversees the risk management and Chairman, Audit Committee assurance activities including the work of Internal Audit.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the terms of reference of the Internal Audit function and no changes were necessary.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 41
