directors report governance: CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Dear Shareholder Hays is a strong business with a global reach.
We are the worlds principles set out in Section 1 throughout the financial year.
leading experts in qualified, professional and skilled recruitment, This Corporate Governance Report explains how we have applied helping to power the growth and success of thousands of the main principles of the 2008 Code during the financial year.
I will retire from the Board at the November Annual General The Board of Hays plc continues to be committed to the highest Meeting and will hand over the stewardship of the Board to standards of corporate governance.
Its role is three-fold: to Alan Thomson.
I am delighted that Alan will be joining Hays.
provide entrepreneurial leadership to the business, stewardship He has had a long and successful career across a variety of and to understand the views of shareholders.
To help all our sectors and will bring considerable expertise to the Board.
stakeholders to understand how the Board has achieved these aims in the year, we have restructured this report along these three themes.
Bob Lawson In the boardroom and across our business, we aim to ensure Chairman that we do the right thing by promoting long-term commercial success, while embedding sound values and principles within our business culture.
Statement of compliance The Financial Services Authority requires UK listed companies to Throughout the year ended 30 June 2010, the Company has explain how they applied the main principles set out in Section 1 without exception, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the 2008 Code.
Further information on the 2008 Code can the 2008 Code and whether they have complied with the be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, frc.
THE BOARD AND ITS WORK ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP STEWARDSHIP UNDERSTANDING SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS 43 Board roles 46 Our governance framework 50 Responsibilities 44 Biographies, skills and contributions 47 How the Board operates Investor meetings Matters reserved for the Board Investor day 2010 Board committees Annual general meeting Terms of reference Formal consultations Succession Communications from shareholders 48 Operational management structure External advisors Managing risks and internal control Internal control statement 49 Principal risks 51 BOARD FOCUS IN THE 2010 FINANCIAL YEAR What the Board has done in the year Committee activities Attendance table 52 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS Understanding the business Board training and development Performance evaluation 42 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements Alistair Cox manages and leads the Groups business as ENTREPRENEURIAL LEADERSHIP Chief Executive.
His core role is to carry out the strategic plans Board roles and policies established by the Board and to manage the business The Board is organised to apply breadth and depth, in both operations.
In performing his remit, Alistair: experience and skills, to ensure the successful development of the business, deliver shareholder value sustainably over the long-term formulates, develops and recommends the strategy and and to enable the Company to make a positive contribution to strategic priorities for the business: society.
The Board sets the goals for the business, its culture manages the implementation of the approved strategy and and standards of conduct.
The health of any business is measured the strategic priorities: in part by the extent to which reward and risk are balanced, how the business uses its strengths to reach its potential and manages and optimises the operation and financial how it effectively addresses its areas of weakness.
Essentially, performance of the business: the Board establishes an entrepreneurial framework within which manages and delivers the appropriate communications the business can flourish without promoting excessive risk-taking to shareholders with the Group Finance Director: or disproportionately impacting the worlds resources.
develops the effectiveness of the senior management team Bob Lawson manages and leads the Board as Chairman.
The and manages the succession requirements: and Chairmans main objective is to ensure the Board performs all its functions effectively and sets the standard of leadership for the ensures the Chairman is regularly appraised of current senior managers and employees to follow throughout the Group.
As part of his formal remit, the Chairman: Paul Venables as Finance Director provides Board focus on the sets and manages the Board agenda: financial position of the Company, manages key stakeholder relationships, including shareholders and banks, oversees the ensures the provision of sufficient, appropriate and timely Companys financial reporting and control systems and assists information to all directors: the Chief Executive in operational matters.
ensures that effective communication takes place with Lesley Knox represents the non-executive directors and is shareholders and that the Board understands the views an alternative point of contact for shareholders in her role of shareholders: as Senior Independent Director.
She also leads discussions ensures the Board has adequate time to consider complex on the Chairmans performance and the succession of the or strategically important issues: Chairmanship, as required.
In conjunction with her role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Lesley is a key ensures new directors receive appropriate induction training voice representing shareholder views on the Board.
that is tailored to their specific requirements: Paul Harrison chairs the Audit Committee and has a key role in is responsible for the development of the Board and its the Companys governance and control framework, including individual members, ensuring optimal effectiveness and managing the relationship with the Auditor and representing active engagement of all members: and the Audit Committee on the Board.
ensures that the Board and its members are evaluated at least Alison Yapp as Company Secretary and General Legal Counsel once a year.
assists the Chairman in administering Board meetings, provides support and advice to the directors, and acts as the principal advisor on governance and legal matters.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 43
