Section Four: Governance 4 The Board confirms that, in accordance with the requirements of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee The Committee was formed in August 2010 and met once during the Corporate Governance Principles, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls was conducted during the year year under review.
The programme of meetings is scheduled to expand over the course of 2011. under review and that it accords with the relevant guidance.
The Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee CREC is Whistleblowing chaired by Ronald Goode.
The other members are the Executive Vice The Group Whistleblowing Policy contains arrangements for the Chairman, Mazen Darwazah, and the Audit Committee Chairman, Chairman of the Compliance, Responsibility and Ethics Committee, BreffniByrne.
The key functions of the Committee are to oversee the the Senior Independent Director, and the Chairman of the Audit Groups approach to compliance-related issues including the Group Committee to receive, in confidence, complaints on accounting, compliance function, anti-corruption, whistleblowing, statements and risk issues, internal control and other instances of allegedly improper policies on ethics, conduct, values and principles and at Board level to set behaviour by Group employees.
and review Group policy in the area of Corporate Responsibility CR.
The responsibilities and functions of the Ethics Committee were passed Insurance tothe CREC on its formation.
Therefore the Ethics Committee has been The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Officers disbanded.
The CREC has responsibility for CR issues at Board level and is insurance in respect of any actions brought against Directors.
supported by the CR Steering Committee.
Audit Committee report internal control The Combined Code requires that this Annual Report separately The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal describes the work of the Audit Committee and how it discharges control and risk management and has complied with the requirements of its responsibilities.
the Corporate Governance Principles in establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the Group faces.
Terms of reference The Board is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of these The Audit Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated systems on an ongoing basis and, at least annually, conducting a formal bythe Corporate Governance Principles and clearly set out its review of the Groups policies on internal control.
The system of internal authorityand duties.
These can be found on the Companys website control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material atwww.
com and are summarised as follows: misstatement or loss.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any other formal The key elements are as follows: announcement relating to the Groups financial performance and review summary financial statements and interim management statements: a reporting structure with clear procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and delegated authorities: review and challenge accounting policies and accounting for significant or unusual transactions: annual budgets, updated forecasting, and long-term business plans for the Group that identify risks and opportunities which are reviewed review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, estimates and approved by the Board: and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in financial reports: a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting which includes review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, uK Listing regular comparison of financial results and key performance Authority and legal requirements including the requirements of the indicators against budget and forecast, informed by management Combined Code and markets Law: commentary: monitor and review the internal financial controls and the Groups a clearly defined process for controlling capital expenditure and other overall risk identification and management systems: financial commitments, including appropriate authorisation levels, consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the internal which are monitored and approved by the Board as appropriate: audit function, its annual plan, its resources and access to information written policies and procedures for all material functional areas with and its freedom from management or other restrictions: specific responsibility allocated to individual managers.
review and monitor managements responsiveness to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: During the year under review, Ernst & Young continued its management consider and make recommendations for appointment, reappointment and execution of the Groups internal audit function on a global basis and removal of the Companys external auditor, and oversee the under a three-year contract which commenced in 2009.
This involves a relationship with the external auditor: risk-driven approach to internal audit which is overseen by the Audit review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity of Committee.
The internal audit process focuses on reviewing areas of theexternal auditor accounting for relevant uK and professional business risk, internal controls, financial reporting and other systems in regulatory requirements and approve their remuneration and the Companys main subsidiaries and at the corporate level, with regular termsofengagement: reports of its findings made to the Audit Committee.
Ernst & Young have direct access to the Audit Committee and the Board Chairman.
49 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2010 CorPorAte GovernAnCe rePort Continued disclosures made in the annual report & financial statements on these review and monitor the directors potential conflicts of interest and make matters and reported on these to the Board.
The Committee also recommendations to the Board for the management of those interests and: reviewed its own terms of reference and general effectiveness, both develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external auditor specifically and in the context of the overall annual review of corporate of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance governance matters conducted by the Company.
and potential conflicts of interest.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte LLP, attended three Audit The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed by the Audit Committee meetings for the purposes of presenting their 2009 audit Committee during the period under review and were subsequently results and findings, the results of the 2010 interim review and their audit reviewed and approved by the Board.
The internal auditors, Ernst & Young presented the results of their audit programme for 2010 to the Audit Committee together Composition with their proposed audit plan for 2011.
The Audit Committee continues Hikmas Audit Committee comprises four members Breffni Byrne, to review the response by management, proposed action plans and the Michael Ashton, Sir David Rowe-Ham, and Ronald Goode all of whom overall effectiveness of the internal audit function.
In accordance with the are Independent Non-Executive directors, and whose biographical details Combined Code, the Audit Committee also met with the Groups external are set out on pages 42 to 43.
The Committee is chaired by Breffni Byrne, auditor and internal auditor without executive management present.
who is a chartered accountant and who isconsidered by the Board to In addition, during 2010, the Audit Committee Chairman met with have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members of the the external auditors in the USA and Jordan.
The Audit Committee Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
The Company Chairman also met with Ernst & Young in Jordan to discuss the results of therefore considers that itcomplies with the Corporate Governance the 2010 internal audit programme and the risk assessment and proposal Principles regarding the composition of the Audit Committee.
TheCommittee Chairman receives additional remuneration to Attendance of members at Audit Committee meetings is shown on compensate him for his .
page 47 of the report on corporate governance.
Responsibilities External auditors The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation with regard to financial reporting, external and internal audit and internal and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit, which is led by control.
This includes reviewing the Companys Annual Report, financial Deloitte LLP in the UK.
Oversight and responsibility for monitoring the statements, Interim Report, Interim Management Statements and trading independence and objectivity of the external auditors lies with the Audit updates, reviewing and monitoring the extent of non-audit work Committee.
The Audit Committee is also the point of primary contact undertaken by external auditors, and monitoring the effectiveness and with the Board.
The Group has adopted a policy in relation to the output of the Companys internal audit activities, internal controls and provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
The policy also risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors formaking recommendations to the Board on the appointment, will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group.
reappointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the During the period under review the Group used members of the effectiveness of the audit process.
The ultimate responsibility for global Deloitte network in certain jurisdictions for non-audit services.
The reviewing and approving the Annual Report and financial statements non-audit fees incurred of $3.9 million were higher than in previous andthe half-yearly reports remains with the Board.
The Board has also years 2009: $1.3 million principally due to the performance of work delegated responsibility for the operation of the Companys policies on byDeloitte Consulting LLP in the United States related to assisting the monitoring Directors conflicts of interest to the Audit Committee and Group with the development of a post-merger integration PMI thus has been included in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
planfor West-Wards acquisition of Baxters multi-source injectables MSI business.
Meetings The appointment of Deloitte Consulting LLP in the United States was The Audit Committee met nine times during the year under review, with made after a competitive tender process.
A detailed Request For Proposal the Chief Financial Officer, Corporate Vice President for Finance, the was prepared and five international consulting firms were invited to tender.
Company Secretary and the Deputy Secretary in attendance.
The Audit Each firm produced a proposal and made presentations to West-Wards Committee reviewed the 2009 Annual Report & financial statements, executive management whereby their capabilities were assessed.
The US the 2010 interim report, the two Interim Management Statements team recommended Deloitte Consulting LLP because ofits strengths and released by the Company and each of the regulatory statements made greater experience above other firms in relation to carve-out integrations by the Company in respect of trading and results issued during the year.
and the pharmaceutical industry, its capabilities in the integration areas The Committee also reviewed and approved the audit plans for 2010 for that were most likely to represent a challenge to the MSI acquisition and both internal and external auditors and the related scope of internal the characteristics of the team.
The appointment ofDeloitte Consulting audit work to be undertaken.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness LLP by West-Ward enabled them to obtain the most appropriate advice of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes and the and team for the work in a cost-effective manner.
