26 Corporate governance Compliance with the Code The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it The Company has complied throughout the year with the for decision.
These include the following major matters: provisions set out in Section 1 of the June 2008 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
approval of any material investments, capital expenditure, The following paragraphs, together with the Directors acquisitions and disposals by Group companies: remuneration report on pages 30 to 39, provide a description substantial alteration in the general nature of the business: of how the Combined Code has been applied.
approval of the operating plan and the three year The Board strategic plan: There were a number of changes to the composition of the Board setting of financial and dividend policies: during the year under review.
Lesley Knox retired from the Board on 1 February 2010 and on that date also ceased to act as Senior consideration of interim and final dividends: Independent Director.
Gerry Johnson retired from the Board on change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: 14 January 2010.
Orna Ni-Chionna was appointed to the Board and became chairman of the Remuneration Committee on changes to the share capital of the Company: 30 September 2009 and Philip Rowley was appointed Senior appointment and removal of all Directors and senior Independent Director on 1 February 2010. management: and As at the end of the year under review the Board comprised four independent Non-Executive Directors, the Chairman, and corporate governance and corporate social responsibility two Executive Directors being the Chief Executive Officer and the of the Company.
The biographical details of the members In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, of the Board are set out on pages 24 and 25.
The Board excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive considers that each of Andy Duncan, Orna Ni-Chionna, Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial Christopher Rogers and Philip Rowley are independent.
term of three years and the Articles of Association include a In addition, the Board determined that Robert Swannell was requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman on by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following 2 February 2009.
The Company used external search consultants appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
However, in respect of the appointment of Orna Ni-Chionna.
the Directors have decided to comply with the requirement being Whilst the Board is collectively responsible for the success of the introduced by the new Corporate Governance Code that Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: Directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Consequently all Directors will stand for re-election at the the Company has appropriate objectives and an effective forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All have been subject to strategy: evaluation, as indicated below, and continue to demonstrate there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to implement commitment to the role and be an effective member of the the strategy: Board.
Accordingly, the Board believes these Directors should be re-elected.
there are procedures in place to inform the Board of On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal performance against objectives: and induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training as the Company is operating in accordance with the principles and when required.
There are also procedures for the Directors of corporate governance.
to take independent professional advice at the cost of the Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to the advice The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the page 24.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint Board for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
The appointment and removal of the The Senior Independent Director acts as an alternative Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
channel of communication for shareholders.
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee oversees senior executives Performance evaluation remuneration and remuneration policy.
The Chief Executive Officer The Board has an established process for evaluating the has overall responsibility for running the Companys business.
individual Directors, the Board as a whole and each of the Board Committees, which it reviews each year to ensure it is robust, comprehensive and appropriate to the Company.
This evaluation process involves an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and any development plans for the Board.
27 The evaluation process for the Board as a whole and for each of its Christopher Rogers, chairman of the Committee, is a qualified Committees was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires Chartered Accountant and Finance Director of Whitbread plc and, completed by all Directors.
The results of the evaluation of each thus, has recent relevant financial experience.
The Board believes of the Board Committees were reviewed and discussed by each that the other Committee members have relevant experience to of the relevant Committees and then reported to the Board as a serve on this Committee.
whole, together with the results of the appraisal of the Board itself.
The Committee is required to meet a minimum of three The evaluation confirmed that the Board was working well and a times a year and details of members attendance at the number of minor recommendations were agreed, which included Committee can be found on page 28.
Both the Head of Internal the continued monitoring of succession planning, the regular Audit and the external auditors have direct access to the chairman review of the recent investments made by the Group in its strategic of the Committee outside the formal Committee meetings.
initiatives and processes to ensure that the Board continued to The main duties of the Committee are as following be fully appraised of the changes taking place in the business landscape served by the Company.
The Board will monitor the monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial implementation of these recommendations.
statements: The Chairman appraises the performance of the individual the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness and Board members through discussion with all Directors individually.
independence of the external auditors: The Senior Independent Director is responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman and the views of the other Directors are approval of the scope of the Companys risk management canvassed.
The results of the performance evaluation for each programme and review of the risk management process: of the Directors and the Chairman were reported to the Board.
reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal audit The development plans for the Board and the performance function: and evaluation process will continue to be reviewed annually.
The Non-Executive Directors met on several occasions to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good without the Executive Directors being present during the year business practices throughout the Group.
They also met without the presence of the During the period under review, the Committee met in order to Chairman.
review a wide range of financial matters, including annual and half year profit figures, financial statements, trading statements and Board Committees other regulatory information disclosed to the public, to conduct a There are three principal Board Committees, each of which review of the internal audit function and to receive regular reports regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear terms from internal audit, before making appropriate recommendations of reference which can be found on the Companys website to the Board.
During the year under review each Board Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference.
Nomination Committee Each Committee will continue to keep under review its terms of During the year under review Orna Ni-Chionna was appointed a reference and its effectiveness and make recommendations to member of the Nomination Committee on her appointment as a the Board of any appropriate changes as and when required.
Lesley Knox ceased to be The chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available a member of the Committee on her retirement from the Board to answer shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual on 1 February 2010.
As at the end of the year under review the General Meeting.
Nomination Committee comprised Robert Swannell chairman, Christopher Rogers, Philip Rowley, Andy Duncan and Orna NiAudit Committee Chionna, who were appointed to the Committee on 2 February During the year under review Orna Ni-Chionna was appointed 2009, 1 October 2006, 1 October 2007, 13 March 2009 and a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 30 September 2009, respectively.
30 September 2009 and Lesley Knox ceased to be a Committee The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
member on her retirement from the Board on 1 February 2010.
The Committee meets as and when required and during the As at the end of the financial year the Audit Committee comprised period under review the Committee met on three occasions.
Christopher Rogers chairman, Andy Duncan, Orna Ni-Chionna These meetings were to evaluate the Committees own and Philip Rowley.
Mr Rogers was appointed to the Committee on performance, the appointment of Mrs Ni-Chionna as a Non- 1 October 2006, and Mr Rowley, Mr Duncan and Mrs Ni-Chionna Executive Director, following the retirement of Mrs Knox from the were appointed to the Committee on 1 October 2007, 13 March Board, the appointment of Mr Rowley as the Senior Independent 2009 and 30 September 2009 respectively.
The Chairman, Chief Director and to deal with other succession planning issues.
Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors were invited and attended meetings of the Audit Committee.
28 Corporate governance continued The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating As at the end of the year under review, the Committee comprised executive and non-executive candidates for approval by the Orna Ni-Chionna chairman, Christopher Rogers, Philip Rowley Board to fill vacancies as and when they arise and to put in place and Andy Duncan who were appointed to the Committee on succession plans for Directors and other senior managers.
30 September 2009, 1 October 2006, 1 October 2007 and The Committee has access to such information and advice both 13 March 2009 respectively.
No person other than the members from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but others as it deems appropriate.
External consultants are used to assist may be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Director is present in identifying suitable external candidates based on a written when the Committee considers matters relating to him or her specification for each appointment.
Committee members prepare or acts in matters relating to them.
a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee is required to meet at least The final candidate is then subject to formal nomination by the twice a year and is responsible for approving the terms of service Committee and approval by the Board.
In addition, the Committee and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors and will review the Board structure, size and composition and from other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a time to time make any relevant recommendations to the Board.
remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is terminated, During the year under review Lesley Knox ceased to having regard to a severance policy adopted by the Board.
It also be the chairman of the Remuneration Committee on prepares for approval by the Board the annual Directors 30 September 2009 and Orna Ni-Chionna was appointed Remuneration Report set out on pages 30 to 39. chairman of the Committee in her place on that date.
A record of members attendance at the Board and Committee meetings is as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Neil Bright 12 12 2 1 Andy Duncan 11 12 2 2 6 6 3 3 Simon Fox 12 12 2 3 2 Gerry Johnson 7 8 2 Lesley Knox 8 8 2 2 5 5 3 3 Orna Ni-Chionna 7 8 1 1 3 4 1 2 Christopher Rogers 11 12 2 2 5 6 2 3 Philip Rowley 11 12 2 2 5 6 2 3 Robert Swannell 12 12 2 6 3 3 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
The Audit Committee had a further meeting four days after the end of the year under review.
Not a Committee member but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
The instances of non-attendance arose where the Director either had a conflict with another meeting or the meeting was held at short notice.
Internal control during the year under review and up to the date of approval of the The Board attaches considerable importance to, and Annual Report and Accounts and that there are satisfactory acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of internal ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the control and risk management and carries out regular reviews significant risks faced by the Group.
The systems of internal of their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is designed to control and the processes used by the Board to review the manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business effectiveness of those systems include: objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Group Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management an internal audit function, which carries out a programme of process and significant risk issues are referred to the Board for audits covering the management of significant corporate risks consideration.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the Groups and reports directly to the Audit Committee and the Board on system of internal controls including financial, operational and the effectiveness of key internal controls: compliance controls as well as risk management, and that detailed risk registers, which describe the significant risks these accord with the guidance on internal controls set out in and control strategies in each area of the business and which the Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the are reviewed annually: Combined Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005, and that such controls have been in place 29 a comprehensive system of financial reporting, which Relations with shareholders includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting with The Board places high importance on maintaining good rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting to enable relationships with both institutional and private investors the Group to meet its public financial reporting requirements: and ensures, through its investor relations programme, that shareholders are kept informed of significant Group regular performance monitoring, with remedial action taken developments.
Shareholders can access further information where necessary: on the Group via the Companys website at www.
regular Board meetings, with a formal schedule of matters The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director reserved to the Board for decision: meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to established procedures for planning, approving and meet with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
monitoring major projects: In addition, the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet with a policies and procedures manual, which sets out, inter alia, private investors at the Companys general meetings, where authority limits and guidelines for capital expenditure, which shareholders are invited to ask questions and express views on include annual budgets and appraisal and review procedures.
The views of shareholders are reported All operating businesses have to confirm compliance with the to the Board as and when appropriate.
manual on an annual basis: Accountability and audit certain centralised functions, that are staffed by appropriately The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and qualified individuals who draw on external professional advice.
balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and These functions include finance, tax, treasury, management prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statement of the information systems, legal, company secretarial and internal Chairman on pages 6 and 7 and the Business and Financial audit: and Review on pages 8 to 23. clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate The Audit Committee reviews the independence and delegated authorities.
objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming that, in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value Management and specialists within the finance department are for money on the other has been kept appropriately in balance.
responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial The external auditors have in place processes to ensure their records and processes that ensure all financial information is independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and where they provide non-audit services their independence is not regulations, and distributed internally and externally in a timely threatened.
In this context, the Audit Committee considers that it manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is is appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the Group, completed by management to ensure that the financial position tax advice and other accounting services, including those in and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
All financial connection with supporting and reporting on financial information published by the Group is subject to the approval of representations in public documentation.
During the year under review the auditors were used for tax advice work and the Company foresees using the auditors for this Audit Committee advice in the future.
The provision of other services is considered approving the scope of the annual Group risk management on an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the programme: auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, are given reviewing the results of the risk identification process: on page 68. providing input on risks and internal controls into the annual By order of the Board Board strategy discussions: Elaine Marriner reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management process Company Secretary and discussing significant risk issues with the Board: 29 June 2010 considering reports from internal and external audit on the system of internal control and any material control weaknesses: reviewing the internal audit and external audit work plans: and at the year end, before producing the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in the Annual report and accounts, the Board, through the Audit Committee, considers reports generated from the internal and external auditors on any major problems that have occurred during the year.
