Hochschild Mining plc 52 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved for the Board INTRODUCTION & STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE which includes the approval of annual and half-yearly results, the Groups strategy, the annual budget and major items of The Board of Hochschild Mining plc believes that its capital expenditure.
participation in an established investment market carries significant responsibility to manage the Company transparently During the year under review, there were four scheduled and in a manner appropriate to a successful business.
meetings of the Board and three ad hoc meetings which Accordingly, the Board fully supports good corporate were convened at short notice to deal with matters relating governance and intends to comply, wherever possible, in to Corporate Development.
the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, with Attendance of the Directors serving during the year at the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008 Edition scheduled Board meetings is summarised in the following the Code a copy of which is available on the website of table: the Financial Reporting Council.
Maximum This report sets out how the Company has applied the Main possible Actual Principles set out in the Code in respect of the year under attendance attendance review.
The information required to be included in the Eduardo Hochschild 4 4 Corporate Governance Report in relation to share structure pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is provided Roberto Daino 4 4 in the section of the Directors Report entitled Additional Ignacio Bustamante 3 3 Statutory Information.
Sir Malcolm Field 4 4 The Board confirms that in respect of the year ended Nigel Moore 4 4 31 December 2010, the Group has complied with the provisions Jorge Born Jr. 4 4 contained in Section 1 of the Code with the exception that a significant part of the Executive Chairmans remuneration is Dionisio Romero 4 4 not performance-related.
Fred Vinton 4 4 As disclosed in the 2009 Annual Report, the remuneration Miguel Arambur 1 1 arrangements for the Executive Chairman were reviewed in Ignacio Rosado 2 1 early 2010.
In agreeing the structure, the Board agreed that the arrangements should reflect the importance of his contribution 1 Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 April 2010 to the long-term strategic development of the Group, and his 2 Miguel Arambur resigned as a Director of the Company on 31 March 2010 current significant shareholding.
For this reason, a package 3 Ignacio Rosado resigned as a Director of the Company on 31 May 2010 comprising fixed elements only was considered to be the most appropriate.
The principal matters considered by the Board during the year include: THE BOARD the appointments of Ignacio Bustamante and Ramon Barua to the positions of CEO and CFO respectively: The Board is responsible for approving the Companys the Groups strategic plan and annual budget.
strategy and monitoring its implementation, for managing the operations of the Company and for providing leadership matters relating to corporate development including and support to the senior management team in achieving divestment of the Groups holdings in Zincore Metals Inc. sustainable added value for shareholders.
It is also responsible and Lake Shore Gold Corporation.
for enabling the efficient operation of the various businesses Presentations on and regular updates with respect to, by providing adequate financial and human resources and an progress of the Groups exploration projects.
appropriate system of financial control to ensure these resources are fully monitored and utilised.
a review of directors conflicts of interest.
various matters relating to health & safety, environmental The Board consists of two Executive Directors: Eduardo management and community relations.
Hochschild Chairman and Ignacio Bustamante Chief Executive Officer, and six Non-Executive Directors: Directors receive a full pack of papers for consideration Roberto Daino Deputy Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field in advance of each Board meeting and, in the event that a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Jorge Born Jr. Director is unable to attend, comments are relayed to the Nigel Moore, Dionisio Romero and Fred Vinton.
Chairman who seeks to ensure that all views are represented Eduardo Hochschild, who controls the major shareholder of on any given matter.
the Company, Pelham Investment Corporation the Major In addition, Directors are kept abreast of latest developments Shareholder, has considerable knowledge and experience through monthly reports on the Companys operations and in the Latin American gold and silver mining industry.
result, Eduardo Hochschilds membership of the Board and participation in the management of the Company is considered by the Board to be vital to its continued success and growth.
Prior to the Companys Listing, the Major Shareholder, its Controlling Shareholders at the time including Eduardo Hochschild, and the Company, entered into an agreement regulating their ongoing relationship.
Further details concerning this agreement are set out on page 47.
Governance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 53 Consistent with the Code, consideration of the remuneration of CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE the Non-Executive Directors is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Company is jointly led by the Executive Chairman, Eduardo Hochschild, and the Chief Executive Officer.
RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT Miguel Arambur served as Chief Executive Officer until 31 March 2010 and was succeeded by Ignacio Bustamante.
Prior to the Companys IPO, the Major Shareholder and its controlling shareholders at the time including Eduardo A document setting out the division of responsibilities between Hochschild collectively the Controlling Shareholders the Chairman and the CEO is set out in writing and has been and the Company entered into an agreement regulating their approved by the Board.
Eduardo Hochschild, as Chairman, is ongoing relationship.
The principal purpose of the Relationship responsible for the running and leadership of the Board and, Agreement is to ensure that the Company and its subsidiaries in conjunction with the Chief Executive Officer, for the are capable of carrying on their business independently of the formulation of the vision and long-term corporate strategy Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective of the Group.
The approval of the Groups strategy is a matter associates, and that transactions and relationships with the for approval by the Board.
Controlling Shareholders and any of their respective associates The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading an are at arms length and on normal commercial terms.
executive team in the day-to-day management of the The Company and the Major Shareholder agree in the Groups business.
Relationship Agreement that they will comply with the applicable obligations under the Listing Rules and to exercise SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR their powers so far as they are able to ensure the Company is managed in accordance with the Code.
Under the agreement, Sir Malcolm Field acts as Senior Independent Director and, the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint up to two as such, is available to meet with major shareholders if their Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as the Major concerns have not been resolved by the Chairman or the other Shareholder holds an interest of 30% or more in the Company Executive Directors.
and the right to appoint one Non-Executive Director for so long as it has an interest of 15% or more in the Company, and in BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE each case to remove any such Director s previously appointed.
The Relationship Agreement continues for so long as the During 2010 the composition of the Board complied with Companys shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange the provision of the Code in that a majority of the Board or until such times as the Controlling Shareholders including excluding the Chairman comprised Non-Executive Directors Eduardo Hochschild cease to own or control in aggregate a who are considered by the Board to be independent.
minimum of 15% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of the Company.
The Board believes that its membership during the year was, and continues to be, well balanced and capable of managing APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD AND the Company in an effective and successful manner.
Whilst the RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Chairman is not considered to be independent, the Board is satisfied that decisions can be made without any one Director exercising undue influence.
This sentiment continues to be Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the reiterated by the views expressed by directors during the Nominations Committee which met during the year under annual board evaluation process.
The Board considers that review to consider the appointment of Ignacio Bustamante as Eduardo Hochschilds long-term relationship with the Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company.
Company, and his importance to it, make his presence The UK Corporate Governance Code the CG Code on the Board of vital importance and is in the best interests recommends that directors of FTSE350 companies seek of the Company and its shareholders generally.
re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
Whilst the Moreover, the undertakings given in the Relationship Company is required to report against the CG Code from 2011, Agreement by the Major Shareholder and Eduardo Hochschild the Board has decided to adopt annual Board re-election early.
ensure that the Company is managed in accordance with the Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 45.
Accordingly, the Board believes that during the year under review, the Company was structured so as to ensure BOARD DEVELOPMENT that no individual had unfettered powers of decision making.
The Directors receive regular briefings on their responsibilities The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors as Directors of a UK listed company and on other relevant UK in office in 2010 were, and continue to be, independent of the legal developments.
In addition, the Chairman has made Company as defined by the Code.
It is acknowledged that given arrangements to ensure that the Directors have free access to his previous role as an Executive Director, Roberto Daino is the Companys officers and advisers and to visit the Companys not regarded as an independent Non-Executive Director.
An induction programme for new Board appointees The Board is of the opinion that each of its Non-Executive has been designed to facilitate introductory meetings with the Directors enhances the Boards capacity to oversee and grow Companys principal advisers and visits to the Groups the Companys operations.
membership of each main Board committee is reviewed by It is the responsibility of the Chairman to ensure that the the Board on an on-going basis as a matter of good practice.
Directors update their skills and are provided with the In addition to their legal responsibilities as Directors, the necessary resources to continue to do so.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to contribute to issues The Company has procedures by which members of the Board of strategy and management performance through the may take independent professional advice at the Companys application of their independent judgement and to scrutinise expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Hochschild Mining plc 54 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report Continued During the year under review, there were four meetings of the BOARD EVALUATION Audit Committee which were attended by all members.
The Board is committed to the process of self evaluation The following matters featured among those considered by the as a means of achieving continual improvement in fulfilling Committee during the year: its responsibilities.
Given the success of the prior years Financial reporting The Audit Committee reviewed the 2009 evaluation, the 2010 Board Evaluation process was undertaken Annual Report and Accounts and the 2010 Half-yearly Report through one-to-one interviews conducted by the Senior before recommending their adoption to the Board.
As part of Independent Director and the Company Secretary.
its review, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, The interviews sought to elicit the Directors views on, amongst estimates and judgements applied in preparing the relevant other things, the workings of the Board and Committees as report and accounts and the transparency and clarity of well as board composition and process.
In addition, Directors disclosures contained within them.
provided feedback on the performance of their peers.
The findings of both elements of the evaluation were considered Risk management Risk matrices detailing the significant collectively by the Chairman and the Senior Independent risks facing the Group together with an accompanying Director, and the resulting recommendations were discussed evaluation and action plan to manage the particularly high and, where appropriate, approved by the Board.
recommendations principally relate to Board composition, Internal audit The Audit Committee has continued to suggested areas for Board discussion and succession planning.
oversee the Groups adoption of a risk-based approach A section of the Board interviews was dedicated to evaluating to internal audit.
the Chairmans performance, the outcome of which was Internal control The Audit Committee has continued to collated by the Senior Independent Director and collectively review, amongst other things, the adequacy of the Groups considered by the Non-Executive Directors before the internal control environment.
Furthermore, during the year, recommendations were conveyed.
the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the arrangements in place by which staff may raise, in confidence, concerns THE BOARDS COMMITTEES about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters and which enable proportionate and The Board has delegated authority to the following standing independent investigation of any such improprieties with committees which report regularly to the Board: suitable follow-up action.
External audit The Audit Committee considered the reappointment of the Companys external auditors before the Remuneration Committee.
making a recommendation to the Board that the same be the Nominations Committee.
The Audit Committee oversees the the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee.
relationship with the external auditors and as part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee reviewed the findings The terms of reference for all the Board committees of the external auditors and management representation are available for inspection on the Companys website letters, approved audit plans, reviewed and agreed audit at www.
com fees and evaluated the auditors performance.
The Audit Committee continues to oversee the implementation AUDIT COMMITTEE of specific policies designed to safeguard the independence and objectivity of the auditors including the policy on the provision of The role of the Audit Committee is to: non-audit services.
This document specifies those non-audit monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements: services that the external auditor may provide in the absence of any threat to its independence which include support in monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls relation to M&A, and Joint Ventures and tax advisory services and risk management systems: which are not incompatible with the auditors statutory oversee the relationship with the Companys external responsibilities.
The policy also sets out those services which auditors: and the auditors are prohibited from rendering and where it is not in the best interests of the Group for the work to be undertaken review the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Such services include management of, The Audit Committee is chaired by Nigel Moore who has or significant involvement in internal audit services, advice to extensive and substantial financial experience gained whilst the Remuneration Committee and valuation services.
holding a number of senior appointments with Ernst & Young Details on the fees paid to the external auditors during the year and acts as Audit Committee Chairman for a number of other in respect of audit and non-audit work are provided in note 31 listed companies.
Further details are given in the biography on to the Consolidated financial statements.
The other members of the Audit Committee are Sir Malcolm Field and Fred Vinton who was appointed to the Committee on 26 May 2010.
Both Sir Malcolm and Fred Vinton are considered to be independent Directors.
Jorge Born Jr stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee on 25 May 2010.
The lead partner of the external auditors, the Executive Directors and the Head of Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
Governance Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 55 During the year under review, the CSR Committee met four REMUNERATION COMMITTEE times and was chaired by Roberto Daino and counts Sir Malcolm Field and Eduardo Hochschild as its other members.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and Following Roberto Dainos appointment as a Non-Executive agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of Director on 1 January 2011, Eduardo Hochschild assumed the executives and senior management as designated, as well as chair of the Committee from that date.
specific remuneration packages, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The CEO and VP of Operations attend each CSR Committee meeting by invitation.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the following independent Non-Executive Directors: Sir Malcolm Field Further details relating to the CSR Committee and the Groups Committee Chairman, Jorge Born Jr. and Nigel Moore.
activities in this area are set out in the corporate responsibility The Committee held three meetings during the year under report on pages 26 to 35. review at which all members were in attendance.
Further details concerning the activities of the Remuneration INTERNAL CONTROL Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 57.
Whilst the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control including risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness, responsibility for the periodic review NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE of the effectiveness of these controls has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The system of internal control is designed The role of the Nominations Committee is to identify and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve nominate candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board business objectives and it must be recognised that such a vacancies and make recommendations to the Board on Board system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance composition and balance.
In addition, the Nominations against material misstatement or loss.
These controls are Committee has been authorised by the Board to review managed by the use of formal procedures designed to highlight Directors external interests with regards to any actual, financial, operational, environmental and social risks and perceived or potential conflicts of interests.
provide appropriate information to the Board enabling it to The members of the Nominations Committee are protect effectively the Companys assets and, in turn, maintain Eduardo Hochschild Chairman, Sir Malcolm Field and shareholder value.
The process used by the Audit Committee Dionisio Romero.
to assess the effectiveness of internal control includes: All members of the Nominations Committee were present Monitoring the risks faced by the Groups operations through at the four meetings held during the year under review except reports from the Head of the Internal Audit function.
that Dionisio Romero was unable to attend one meeting.
Review of accounting and financial reporting processes The matters considered by the Nominations Committee during together with the internal control environment at Group level.
the year were: This involves the monitoring of performance and the taking of relevant action through the monthly review of key the consideration of any potential conflicts of interests arising performance indicators and, where required, the production in respect of a Directors appointment to the Board of another of revised forecasts.
The Group has adopted a standard listed company: accounting manual to be followed by all finance teams which the consideration of any potential conflicts of interests is continually updated to ensure the consistent recognition relating to, and the subsequent appointment of, Ignacio and treatment of transactions and production of the Bustamante as Chief Executive Officer: consolidated financial statements.
the relevant recommendations arising from the Board Review of budgets and reporting against budgets.
evaluation process: and Consideration of progress against strategic objectives.
matters relating to the change in Roberto Dainos role Based on its review of the process, the Audit Committee is from Executive Director to Non-Executive Director as his reasonably satisfied that the internal controls are in place at appointment as Special Adviser to the Chairman and Senior the operational level within the Group.
In accordance with the Management team.
Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the significant risks faced by the Company, and that it has been COMMITTEE in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board, via the Audit Committee, The role of the CSR Committee is to oversee and to make continues to monitor the internal control environment of the all necessary recommendations to the Board in connection Group alongside the development of risk management with corporate social responsibility issues as they affect processes further details of which are given in the risk the Companys operations.
In particular, it focuses on management section of this Annual Report.
compliance with national and international standards to ensure that effective systems of standards, procedures and practices Overall, the Board acknowledges that the steps taken to are in place at each of the Companys operations.
The CSR initiate a risk management framework are appropriate to the Committee is also responsible for reviewing managements Groups circumstances.
investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Hochschild Mining plc 56 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate governance report Continued Financial Officer are available to discuss the concerns of major GOING CONCERN shareholders at any time during the year.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, in particular, will be responsible for A statement on the Directors position regarding the Company discussing strategy with the Companys shareholders and will as a going concern is contained in the Directors report on communicate the views of shareholders to the other members page 51. of the Board.
COMPANY SECRETARY The main means of communication with shareholders are the Annual and Half-yearly Reports which are available on request.
The Company also uses the AGM as an opportunity The Company Secretary is appointed and removed by the Board to communicate with its shareholders.
and is responsible for advising the Board on governance matters and the provision of administrative and other services Notice of the 2010 AGM was circulated to all shareholders at to the Board.
All the Directors have access to the Company least 20 working days prior to the meeting and the Chairmen Secretary.
of the Audit, CSR, Remuneration and Nominations Committees were available at the meeting to answer questions.
A poll vote INVESTOR RELATIONS was taken on each of the resolutions put before shareholders.
It is intended that this approach will also be taken at the 2011 The Company is fully committed to achieving an excellent AGM with results of the voting at the AGM announced and relationship with investors and contact with investors is the published on the Companys website as soon as possible after responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial the meeting.
Officer and the Head of Investor Relations.
Further information on matters of particular interest to The Company announces its production results on a investors is available on page 164 and on the Companys quarterly basis and analysts are invited to briefings following website at www.
com release of the annual and half-yearly results as well as to join discussions on the quarterly production results.
The Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and the Chief
