GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction below Operating Board level, including high potential colleagues.
In The events of the past two years have highlighted the purpose and value addition, during the year the non-executive directors attended a meeting of effective corporate governance.
However, they have also highlighted with members of the Operating Board and senior management for Argos that effective corporate governance relies much more upon behaviours and Homebase to discuss progress on business initiatives.
and applied principles of good governance than organisational structures and checklists.
This should be re ected in the revised version of the UK The Board consists of the chairman, Oliver Stocken: chief executive, Corporate Governance Code to be published this year.
Terry Duddy: finance director, Richard Ashton: and three non-executive The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate directors: John Coombe the senior independent director, Penny Hughes governance and is committed to maintaining high standards of behaviour and Mike Darcey appointed 20 April 2010.
The biographical details of the and principles.
In his draft preface to the Revised Code, Sir Christopher directors in of ce at the end of the period under review are shown in the Hogg, Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council, states: to follow the Board of Directors and Operating Board section on page 35.
On 1 July 2009, spirit of the Code to good effect, boards must think deeply, thoroughly Andy Hornby stepped down as a non-executive director, following his and on a continuing basis, about their overall tasks and the implications of appointment as Chief Executive of Alliance Boots.
The Board is very grateful these for the roles of their individual members.
I support that statement to Andy Hornby for his signi cant contribution to Home Retail Group.
and am grateful to the members of the Board for the continuing In the first two full years as an independently listed plc the formal commitment and diligence they show to their responsibilities.
evaluation of the performance of the Board was conducted internally.
This corporate governance report provides an overview of how the This year, an externally facilitated effectiveness review of the Board and Board has applied the principles of good governance during the period its committees was undertaken.
The external facilitator attended a Board under review both directly and through its principal committees, the meeting and held face-to-face meetings with each member of the Board work and activities undertaken and how it has evaluated its performance.
and the company secretary, human resources director and the managing directors of the main businesses.
The agenda for the face-to-face meetings Oliver Stocken included Board and committee functioning, performance and composition, Chairman governance and independence, training and induction and the role of the chairman.
The external facilitators report was reviewed by the The Board Board and recommendations for improvement were agreed and have The work of the Board is structured around a framework of scheduled been implemented.
meetings and telephone conferences each year.
Several of these meetings For the period under review, Home Retail Group plc has complied are linked to events in the corporate calendar such as the full year and half fully with the main and supporting principles set out in Section 1 of the year results and the annual general meeting.
Other meetings focus on Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial strategy, the annual budget and planning.
In advance of each meeting the Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code excepting that following Board receives a comprehensive financial management report that covers Andy Hornbys resignation, the audit and remuneration committees the trading and operational performance of each of the Groups businesses, comprised two independent non-executive directors from 1 July, for the Groups financial performance, current market expectations of the remainder of the period under review.
This statement, together with performance and any signi cant developments.
Each month the Board the directors report and the directors remuneration report, provides also receives a management information pack that provides detailed a summary of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the information on the Groups businesses.
The Board meets informally on Code and the extent to which such principles have been applied.
the evening before most Board meetings.
This provides an opportunity The Company has also complied fully with the remainder of the Code to discuss current trading and operations and recent developments.
The during the period under review by applying its principles as follows.
members of the Operating Board are invited to join these discussions on The three non-executive directors are determined by the Board to be a regular basis and to update the Board on their areas of responsibility.
independent and there are no relationships or circumstances which could Each non-executive director serves on each of the three main Board affect, or appear to affect, a non-executive directors judgement.
The committees: audit, remuneration and nomination.
We believe this Company has in place formal procedures regarding con icts of interest, facilitates better communication with Board members and the provision which are reviewed on an annual basis.
The non-executive directors are of information to the Board.
It also enables Board members to take full appointed for three-year renewable terms.
The Board is satis ed that the account of the relationships between the work of these committees, chairmans other Board appointments and commitments do not place including consideration of financial reporting, internal controls and risk constraints on his ability to ful l properly his role as chairman of Home management, external and internal audit, remuneration policy and Retail Group plc.
The Board has at least six scheduled meetings each year and However, the time commitment expected of non-executive directors is meets more frequently, as required.
During the year, in addition to the not restricted to meetings of the Board and Board committees.
It is important scheduled meetings, four additional meetings were held.
The chairman that the non-executive directors understand the operations of the Groups has also met with the non-executive directors without the executive businesses and they take time to visit stores, distribution centres and of ces, directors present.
attend management conferences and meet members of management 38 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE There is a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved to the Board.
The letters of appointment for non-executive directors, including the The Board has responsibility for: chairman, are available for inspection by any person at the Companys t he overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups registered of ce during normal business hours and at the Annual General long-term objectives and commercial strategy, and the review of Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
performance, ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: t he approval of announcements of half-yearly and final results, including Board committees dividends, and the annual report and accounts, including the corporate The Board has appointed the following principal committees: governance statement, remuneration report and statement on internal remuneration committee, nomination committee and audit committee.
controls: The terms of reference of each of these committees are available on the t he approval of documentation to be put forward to shareholders at Companys website at www.
In order to facilitate general meetings and all circulars and prospectuses other than routine better communication with Board members and the provision of documents: information to the Board, the independent non-executive directors t he approval of all appointments to the Board and of the company serve on each of the Board committees.
secretary, following recommendations by the nomination committee, ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior The attendance of directors at scheduled meetings of the Board and the management, and approving the terms of reference of the Board Board committees was as follows: committees: and Board Audit Remuneration Nomination d etermining the responsibilities of the chairman and of the chief meetings committee committee committee 5,6 5 5 5 Board member 10 4 7 4 executive.
1 Terry Duddy 10 4 7 4 The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring 2 Richard Ashton 10 4 1 its effectiveness, for effective communication with shareholders and for facilitating the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and 3 Oliver Stocken 10 4 7 4 their constructive relationship with the executive directors.
The chief executive is responsible for the day-to-day business of the John Coombe 10 4 7 4 Group, and is supported by the Operating Board, which includes the 4 finance director and the managing directors of the main businesses and Andy Hornby 2 1 1 shared services functions.
Members of the Operating Board meet Penny Hughes 10 4 7 4 informally with the chairman and non-executive directors and regularly attend and present at Board meetings when relevant agenda items are Notes: under consideration.
T erry Duddy is not a member of the audit committee or the remuneration committee 2 R ichard Ashton is not a member of the audit committee, the remuneration committee There is in place a procedure under which the directors, in furtherance or the nomination committee of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if 3.
Oliver Stocken is not a member of the audit committee 4.
Andy Hornby resigned as a director on 1 July 2009 necessary, at the Companys expense.
The company secretary, who has 5.
Incl udes the final meetings of the period under review which took place in early been appointed by the Board, is responsible for advising the Board on all March 2010 6.
I n addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board, four additional meetings were corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures held in which all Board members participated are followed, and all directors have access to this professional advice.
The company secretary ensures that the Board receives regular brie ngs Remuneration committee on corporate governance matters and company legislation.
Penny Hughes was appointed as chairman of the remuneration committee Individual appraisals of directors have been undertaken by the on 1 July 2009, following the resignation of Andy Hornby.
Under the leadership of the senior independent director, the members of the committee are John Coombe, Oliver Stocken and, non-executive directors met without the chairman present to appraise from 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey.
Terry Duddy attends meetings of the the chairmans performance, taking account of any views expressed by committee at the request of the committee chairman.
In accordance with the executive directors.
the Code, the committee meets not less than three times a year.
During the All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first period under review the committee met seven times.
The remuneration opportunity after their appointment and, thereafter, in accordance committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on with the Companys Articles of Association.
All directors will be required the Groups policy on the remuneration of the Operating Board, as well as to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
the speci c remuneration packages for each of the executive directors and Both Penny Hughes and Mike Darcey will retire at the Annual General other members of the Operating Board.
Details of how the committee has Meeting to be held on 30 June 2010.
At the Annual General Meeting, ful lled its responsibilities and of compliance with Section B of the Code Mike Darcey will be eligible for election and Penny Hughes will be eligible regarding remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report for re-election.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 39 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Nomination committee reviewed presentations on risk and its identi cation, management The nomination committee is chaired by Oliver Stocken and its other and control with senior management: members are John Coombe, Terry Duddy, Penny Hughes and, from reviewed, at each scheduled meeting, a report on any material litigation 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey.
The nomination committee meets not less involving Group companies: than twice a year and has responsibility for making recommendations reviewed management of fraud risk and incidences of fraud: and to the Board on the composition of the Board and its committees, on reviewed arrangements by which Group employees may, in con dence, retirements, appointments of additional and replacement directors and raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, on succession planning.
During the year, the nomination committee has dishonesty, corruption, breaches of business principles and other matters.
considered the composition of the Board and its committees and succession planning and also reviewed and discussed management One of the primary responsibilities of the audit committee is to make succession plans.
Following the resignation of Andy Hornby, the recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, committee led the process to appoint a further non-executive director.
re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
During the period As part of this process, the committee evaluated the balance of skills, under review, the committee reviewed and discussed the Public Report on knowledge and experience on the board and, in the light of this evaluation, the 2008 9 Inspection of  LLP issued by the Audit prepared a speci cation of the capabilities required for the appointment, Inspection Unit of the UKs Public Oversight Board, part of the Financial including an assessment of the time commitment expected.
A number of factors were taken into account by the search consultancy was appointed to facilitate the search for suitable committee in assessing whether to recommend the external auditors for candidates.
Following this process, Mike Darcey was recommended to re-appointment.
These included: the Board for appointment.
the quality of reports provided to the audit committee and the Board and the quality of advice given: Audit committee the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses The audit committee is chaired by John Coombe and its other members and the retail sector: and are Penny Hughes and, from 20 April 2010, Mike Darcey.
John Coombe was the objectivity of the external auditors views on the controls around formerly chief financial of cer of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
The Board considers the Group.
that he has the recent and relevant financial experience required to chair the audit committee.
Penny Hughes and Mike Darcey have a wide range of The committee recognises that auditor independence is an essential part experience from positions at the highest level of business.
Oliver Stocken, of the audit framework and the assurance it provides.
Audit fees paid to the Terry Duddy, Richard Ashton, the Group head of internal audit and the Companys auditors,  LLP in respect of the period external auditors attend meetings of the committee at the request of under review exceeded non-audit fees.
The committee has established the committee chairman.
Further details of the members of the audit control procedures to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the committee are set out in the Board of Directors and Operating Board external auditors and to ensure that the independence of the audit work section on page 35. undertaken by the external auditors is not compromised.
The audit committee normally meets no fewer than four times The committee has established a policy covering the type of non-audit a year and its principal responsibilities cover internal control and risk work that can be assigned to the external auditors.
The auditors may only management, internal audit, external audit including auditor provide such services provided that these do not con ict with their independence and financial reporting.
The committee met with the statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance.
These services are: external auditors and the head of internal audit at least once during further assurance services where the external auditors knowledge the year without the presence of executive directors or management.
of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out The committee has a structured programme linked to the Groups such work.
This may include but is not restricted to shareholder and financial calendar.
During the period under review, the committee other circulars regulatory reports and work in connection with undertook the following activities: acquisitions and divestments: rev iewed the full-year announcement, annual report and financial services relating to taxation where the external auditors knowledge statements and the half-yearly announcement and considered reports of the Groups affairs may provide signi cant advantages to the Groups from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental tax position and where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender: issues requiring its attention: and rev iewed the statement in the annual report on the system of general in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide internal control: services provided that proposed assignments which exceed financial rev iewed and approved audit plans for the external and internal auditors: limits set out in the policy are put out to tender and decisions to award co nsidered quarterly reports from the head of internal audit on the work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost results of internal audit reviews, signi cant findings, management effectiveness.
action plans and timeliness of resolution: reviewed reports on the Groups risk management process and risk pro le: 40 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE However, certain areas of work are speci cally prohibited including work The key procedures which were operational in the period under review related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately were as follows: be subject to external audit and management of or signi cant involvement in internal audit services.
Risk assessment The committee chairmans pre-approval is required before the ri sks were identi ed and reviewed by management followed by the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial limits set out in review of the risk committee.
This takes place on a bi-annual basis, the policy.
The committee receives half-yearly reports providing details facilitated by the risk assurance manager: of assignments and related fees carried out by the external auditors in t he risks identi ed through this process were then reported to the addition to their normal work.
Fees in respect of such assignments carried Operating Board and audit committee with particular focus on those out in the period under review were: risks classi ed as high-level risks by the risk committee.
The schedule of high-level risks was used as the basis for a programme of internal m audit and assurance: Services relating to taxation 0.1 the audit committee has delegated responsibility from the Board for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular All other services 0.1 basis and received its annual report on the controls over these risks.
This included risks arising from environmental, social and governance matters.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system Control environment and control activities of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is the Group has established procedures for delegating authority, which designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve ensures that decisions that are signi cant, either because of the value or business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to signi cant risk that has been identi ed.
These strategies include internal provide internal control.
controls, insurance and specialised treasury instruments: The Board con rms that the Company has in place an ongoing t he Group sets out principles, policies and standards to be adhered to.
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks These include risk identi cation, management and reporting standards, faced by the Group, including risks relating to environmental, social and ethical principles and practice and accounting policies.
This process was in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report and Information and communication meets the requirements of the guidance issued in October 2005 entitled t he Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, including Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the monthly performance reviews by the Operating Board.
Board also reviews a range of financial and nonfinancial performance This process is overseen by a risk committee chaired by the finance indicators.
These indicators were regularly reviewed to ensure that they director and comprised of all divisional finance directors, the director of remain relevant and reliable: Group treasury and taxation, the company secretary and the risk assurance t he Group has whistleblowing procedures in place for employees to manager.
The head of internal audit also attends its meetings.
The risk report any suspected improprieties.
committee met six times in the period under review.
The audit committee has kept under review the effectiveness of this Monitoring system of internal control and has reported regularly to the Board.
As part a r ange of procedures was used to monitor the effective application of of the process that the Company has in place to review the effectiveness internal control in the Group, including management assurance through of the internal control system there are procedures designed to capture con rmation of compliance with standards, and independent assurance and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and to ensure that necessary through internal audit reviews and review by specialist third parties: action is taken to remedy any failings that may be categorised by the t he internal audit departments responsibilities include reporting to Board as signi cant.
the audit committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems, with a particular focus on those areas identi ed as being the greatest risk to the Group: fo llow-up processes were used to ensure there was an appropriate response to changes and developments in risks and the control environment.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010 41 GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report continued Going concern Additionally during the year, the Board and, in particular, the The business and financial reviews on pages 14 to 31 contain information non-executive directors has obtained an independent insight into the on the performance of the Group, its cash ow and net cash position, views of major shareholders by commissioning research from a third-party capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to adviser across a balanced sample of the Companys investors.
These the Groups financial risk management is set out in note 4 to the financial shareholders controlled some 20% to 25% of the Companys issued share statements and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact capital.
The findings of the research were presented to the Board by the the Groups performance are set out on pages 32 and 33. third-party adviser.
After making enquiries, the directors are satis ed that the Company Through these processes the Board is kept abreast of key issues.
has suf cient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Shareholders also have a direct line of communication to the chairman, Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing particularly if there are areas for concern, whether it be about performance, the financial statements.
The senior independent director is also available should shareholders have concerns which contact through the normal Relations with shareholders channels of the chairman, chief executive and the finance director has The Board recognises the importance of communicating with its failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
shareholders and does so through a variety of channels, including All directors, including the chairmen of the audit, nomination and the annual report, the Annual General Meeting and the processes remuneration committees, intend to be present at the Annual General described below.
Meeting and be available to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the Although the majority of shareholder contact is with the chief Annual General Meeting will be by way of a poll by members present at executive and the finance director supported by management specialising the meeting and, following each vote, the level of proxies lodged on each in investor relations, it is the responsibility of the Board as a whole, led by resolution, the balance for and against the resolution and the number the chairman, to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders of votes withheld, will be displayed.
The results of voting at the Annual takes place.
During the period under review, the chairman of the General Meeting will also be available on the Companys website at remuneration committee also held meetings with a number of www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Meetings with shareholders have been held following the full and half-yearly results announcements.
A monthly summary of all important or relevant issues raised by shareholders during the course of meetings and discussions is circulated to the Board and reviewed as appropriate at scheduled Board meetings.
42 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2010
