47 corPoraTe Governance HomeServe complied throughout the year with financial statements, major financial the provisions set out in the combined code commitments, the acquisitions of significant published by the UK Financial reporting council in companies or businesses, appointments to the 2003 as updated in June 2008 the code.
Board and its audit, remuneration and nomination committees, the companys future The manner in which the company applies the strategy and its internal controls.
It also provides principles of good governance contained in the that the Board receive regular updates from the code is described in the appropriate parts of this chairmen of its committees.
Thus the application by the company of the codes principles relating During the year the Board was led by Brian Whitty, to remuneration matters in the remuneration the executive chairman, who also served as a report on pages 52 to 65 should be read in member of the Boards nomination committee.
conjunction with the statement below.
a review of The chairmans responsibilities were clearly the Groups position and prospects is set out in defined in a written specification agreed by the the chairmans statement, the chief executives Board and which made clear the division of review and the Financial review on pages 3 to 31. responsibilities between the executive chairman THe BoarD and the chief executive.
They included the smooth The Board of Directors leads and controls the running of the Board, effective communication company by holding 10 meetings a year at which between executive and non-executive Directors its current and forecast performance is reviewed and the general progress and long-term and monitored.
regular reports on monthly development of the Group.
His executive performance and other matters of importance to responsibilities included the management of the the Group ensure that the Board is supplied in a emergency Services businesses and those timely manner with the information necessary to relating to property, legal and governance make informed judgements.
Board holds regular meetings at least annually, Brian Whitty retired on 31 March 2010 and Barry also attended by senior operational Gibson was appointed as non-executive management, to devise and discuss the chairman.
Mr Gibsons responsibilities have been companys medium and long-term strategic focus clearly set out in his letter of appointment.
regular formal and informal presentations are given and The Board has established a formal procedure for meetings held in order to inform Directors of Directors wishing to seek independent legal and issues of importance affecting the Group.
other professional advice and all members of the occasionally, meetings of the Board are held at Board have access to the advice and services of the companys operating sites other than Walsall, the company Secretary.
in order to afford the Board, particularly the The day-to-day running of HomeServes business non-executive Directors, with the opportunity to is delegated to an executive committee which is meet with local management.
led by richard Harpin, chief executive.
other In accordance with the provisions of its articles of members of the executive committee include Jon association and with the code, each Director is Florsheim, Martin Bennett and the chief subject to election by the companys executives of HomeServe europe and shareholders at the annual General Meeting HomeService USa.
immediately following his appointment and is During the year, four independent non-executive subject to re-election at least every three years Directors Messrs Gibson, chippendale, Morris thereafter.
and Sibbald with extensive business, finance and The Board has a Schedule of Matters specifically marketing backgrounds, provided the Board with reserved to it for decision and has approved the a breadth of experience and with independent written terms of reference of the various judgement.
Barry Gibson served as the committees to which it has delegated its authority companys independent Senior non-executive in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board Director until 31 March 2010 when he was include the recommendation or approval of replaced by Ian chippendale.
dividends, the approval of preliminary and interim HomeServe 48 Governance annual report & accounts 2010 corPoraTe Governance The Board actively encourages all Directors to a risk committee, comprising certain executive deepen their knowledge of their roles and Directors and members of the executive responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding committee, operates across the Group and is of the Group and the environment in which it chaired by Martin Bennett.
Its terms of reference operates: and has adopted a formal policy on the have been approved by the Board and its purpose induction and training of Directors.
newly is to establish the Groups risk appetite, to appointed Board members are required to evaluate the risk registers compiled by each of its undergo an induction programme, which includes businesses, to monitor the effectiveness of its obtaining a thorough understanding of the action plans for the mitigation of those risks, and Groups various operations, and they have the to report thereon to the audit committee and the opportunity to receive formal training from Board, which retains responsibility for the overall external providers if they wish.
During the year, evaluation of the Groups risk management the non-executive Directors have met with various processes.
members of the Groups management teams and noMInaTIon coMMITTee external advisers.
The nomination committee, which makes The Board has implemented a formal process for recommendations to the Board on the reviewing its own effectiveness, that of its appointment of Directors, was under normal remuneration and audit committees and its circumstances chaired by Brian Whitty with the individual members.
In addition, it continued to other members being the independent ensure that regular meetings of the nonnon-executive Directors.
This committee met executive Directors were held without the informally to consider the position of chief executive Directors, and at least once a year, Financial officer to which Martin Bennett was without the chairman present, in order to appointed on 26 June 2009.
Following this, evaluate his performance.
The evaluation andrew Sibbald assumed the role of chairman of process, which was conducted by the chairman the committee, heading up the process to identify and company Secretary, was concluded in March a non-executive chairman.
Directors completed evaluation Morris and Harpin sat on the committee for this questionnaires and a formal written report purpose and met informally on a number of summarising their views and containing occasions and formally twice before a recommendations to further improve the recommendation was made to the Board.
effectiveness of the Board was prepared and The committee draws on the advice of such reviewed by the whole Board in March 2010.
The professional advisers as it considers necessary Board concluded that it was operating effectively, and did so during the year in respect of both the although a number of recommendations for chairman and chief Financial officer further improvement were approved.
coMMITTeeS Its duties also include the review of the size, The Board operates a number of committees to structure and composition of the Board, and which it has delegated certain specific succession planning for Directors and other senior responsibilities and each of which has formally managers.
During the year, these duties were adopted terms of reference.
These comprise the undertaken by the Board itself.
nomination, audit and remuneration committees.
The terms of reference of each of the aUDIT coMMITTee Boards committees are available on request from The audit committee was chaired by Mark Morris the company Secretary.
who comes from a strong financial background having worked in audit, business advisory and corporate finance before becoming a plc finance director.
The committee comprises only independent non-executive Directors with Barry Gibson and Ian chippendale being the other members.
49 The committee meets regularly to review the reMUneraTIon coMMITTee preliminary and interim results before they are The committee was chaired throughout the year presented to the Board, to receive reports from by Ian chippendale.
The committee comprises the companys internal and external auditors and only independent non-executive Directors, Barry to make recommendations to the Board on Gibson and Mark Morris being its other members.
Its primary duties include the The remuneration committees responsibilities monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance include determining the Groups overall with and the effectiveness of the companys remuneration strategy and the remuneration accounting and internal control systems.
The packages of the executive Directors and other committees duties also include agreeing audit members of the executive committee, after strategy, monitoring the scope and results of the having consulted with the chairman and chief companys annual audit and the independence executive and having received professional advice and objectivity of its auditors.
The internal and from remuneration consultants.
The committee is external auditors and the chief Financial officer also responsible for approving the grant and are invited but are not entitled to attend all exercise of executive long-term incentive meetings.
Where appropriate, other executive arrangements.
In determining remuneration Directors also attend meetings at the chairmans policy, the committee is free to obtain such invitation.
The external and internal auditors are professional advice as it sees fit, and regularly provided with the opportunity to raise any matters monitors both the policies of comparator or concerns that they may have, in the absence of companies and current market practice, in order the executive Directors, whether at committee to ensure that the packages provided are meetings or, more informally outside of them.
sufficient to attract and retain executive Directors The committee is responsible for making of the necessary quality.
recommendations to the Board for a resolution to The committee has also agreed and be put to the shareholders for their approval in implemented a procedure for reviewing and general meeting for the appointment of the assessing its own effectiveness.
external auditors, the approval of their remuneration and their terms of engagement.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is a matter for the companys Board.
The committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit Short biographies of each of the Directors, services and monitors fees paid in respect of such including their membership of the Boards services.
This policy provides that, excluding committees outlined above, may be found on certain specialist services, the total fees payable page 42. to the auditor for non-audit related work in any financial year should not normally be more than 50% of the total fees payable in respect of audit and compliance services.
In addition any proposed spend over a predetermined limit must be approved by the committee.
This year due to the sale and closure of the emergency Services businesses and some specific projects agreed in 2008 9 but completed in 2009 10, external auditor fees for non-audit services exceeded the audit fees.
The committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the internal and external audit process.
The results of the last review of the external audit process were considered by the audit committee in May 2010.
HomeServe 50 Governance annual report & accounts 2010 corPoraTe Governance aTTenDance aT MeeTInGS GoInG concern The table sets out the attendance at meetings of The Groups business activities, together with the the Board and its committees by each member factors likely to affect its future development, during the year.
performance and position are set out in the chairmans statement and the chief executives audit remuneration Board committee committee review.
Principal risks and uncertainties are Number of Meetings detailed in the Financial review.
In addition, the Held 10 3 3 Financial review includes, amongst other things, cash flow and financing information.
Meetings attended B H Whitty 10 The Directors confirm that, after reviewing the r D Harpin 10 Groups budget and projected cash flows, they M J Bennett 7 have a reasonable expectation that the Group J Florsheim 10 has adequate resources to continue in J Simpson-Dent 2 operational existence for the foreseeable future.
J M B Gibson 10 3 3 For this reason, they continue to adopt the going I chippendale 10 3 3 concern basis in preparing the accounts.
a Sibbald 10 InTernaL conTroLS M Morris 10 3 3 as required by the UK Listing authority, the Brian Whitty left the company on 31 March 2010.
Martin Bennett was appointed on 26 June 2009. company has complied throughout the year with Jonathan Simpson-Dent left the company on 26 June 2009. the provisions of the code relating to internal controls, having implemented the procedures reLaTIonSHIPS WITH SHareHoLDerS necessary to comply with the guidance on The Board, on the companys behalf, recognises internal control published in october 2005 the need to maintain an active dialogue with its Turnbull Guidance and to report in line with shareholders.
The chief executive and chief that guidance.
Financial officer meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss the companys The Board is responsible for the Groups system of performance and all shareholders have access to internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
the chairman and independent Senior nonSuch a system is designed to manage rather than executive Director, who are available to discuss eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business any questions which investors may have in objectives and can only provide reasonable and relation to the running of the company.
The Board not absolute assurance against material encourages shareholders to attend the annual misstatement or loss.
General Meeting and is always willing to answer There is an established internal control framework questions, either in the meeting itself or, more in place, which is continually reviewed and informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders updated taking into account the changing may contact HomeServe direct, either through its nature of the Groups operations.
This process website or by telephoning its offices.
has been in place for the whole of the year and The Board also recognises the need to ensure up to the date of approval of this annual report that all Directors are fully aware of the views of and accounts.
major shareholders about the Group.
copies of all analysts research relating to the company are circulated to Directors upon publication, monthly analyses of the companys shareholder register are made available to the Board and written feedback from shareholders and analysts, prepared by the Groups brokers and public relations advisers is provided to all Directors after every significant corporate event and at least twice a year.
51 The key elements of the system operated by the The risk committee reviews a register Group to identify, evaluate and manage significant summarising the significant risks faced by the risks include the following: businesses or the Group as a whole, the The Groups management operates a formal likelihood of those risks occurring and the process for identifying, managing and steps being taken to minimise or otherwise reporting on operational and financial risks manage those risks on a quarterly basis and faced by each of the Groups businesses, updates the audit committee and the Board whereby each of the risks identified is reviewed regularly.
in detail by the executive Directors on a regular as required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board basis.
Weekly telephone meetings of the has carried out an annual assessment of the executive committee monitor its day-to-day effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
performance, and full executive committee The processes applied by the Board include: meetings are held at least eight times a year at the end of the year, the executive Directors at which the Groups senior managers report compile a report identifying the key risks on the progress of the companies or discipline faced by the Group.
This report is considered for which they are responsible and share best by the risk and audit committees and by the practice.
Board before the annual report and a clearly defined organisation structure is in accounts is approved.
place with clear lines of accountability and T he Group has an independent Internal audit appropriate division of duties.
The Groups function which reviews the overall financial regulations specify authorisation effectiveness of the risk management limits for individual managers and for local process for the key risks and reports Boards of management, with all material independently to the audit committee.
transactions being approved by the Board.
at each meeting the audit committee Three year business plans, annual budgets reviews reports of the executive Directors and and investment proposals for each business the internal and external auditors, on any are formally prepared, reviewed and approved issues identified as having a potentially by the Board.
substantial impact on the results of the The Group has a dedicated Internal audit Group, or areas of control weakness.
function which reports directly to the audit The audit committee reviews the committee and a formal audit plan is in place effectiveness of the Groups system of to address the key risks across the Group.
managing financial risk and refers any risks it Financial results and cash flows, including a considers significant to the Board for its comparison with budgets and forecasts, are consideration.
The risk committee meets at reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with least quarterly to assist the audit committee variances being identified to initiate action to to monitor these risks, as well as to set the mitigate them.
Groups risk appetite and to evaluate in detail appropriate treasury policies are in place.
risk registers compiled by the Groups The committee has adopted a formal businesses.
whistleblowing policy for employees, at least twice a year, the audit committee franchisees and sub-contractors who wish to reviews the work plans and results of each of raise any issues of concern relating to the the internal and external auditors.
Groups activities on a confidential basis.
The audit committee chairman reports the a mechanism exists to extend the Groups outcome of all audit committee meetings to formal risk management processes to any the Board, which also receives minutes of all significant new business acquired or such meetings.
established immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, the Board is able to confirm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
