Corporate governance report Statement of Compliance balanced strategy which serves In addition to the regular Board As a locally empowered the interests of the stakeholders.
meetings, information is circulated entrepreneurial business, a The Boards role is to set the context to the directors outside of these strong governance culture is vital for the business, to create suitable meetings.
The Chairman meets for the success of our business.
structures for implementing the with the non-executive directors The Board is therefore committed Groups chosen strategy and to twice a year without the executive to maintaining high standards of ensure the coordination, alignment directors being present and the corporate governance which then and motivation of resource to fulfil Senior Independent Director meets set the tone for governance across that strategy.
The Board then with the other non-executive the wider business.
assesses the results of these actions directors without the Chairman and sets revised priorities where present to appraise the Throughout the year ended appropriate to service the needs Chairmans performance.
25 December 2010, the Company of the stakeholders.
has complied with the provisions set Board composition out in section 1 of the 2008 Financial Decisions reserved for consideration During the year, the Board Reporting Council Combined Code by the Board are detailed in a comprised the non-executive the Combined Code or Code.
schedule which is reviewed annually.
Chairman, Will Samuel, two Further explanation of how the These include decisions about executive directors and four principles and supporting principles strategy, acquisition and disposals, independent non-executive have been applied is set out below risk management and internal directors.
On 19 May 2010, Peter and in the Directors Remuneration control, capital projects over a Wallis resigned as a non-executive Report.
The Board has also reviewed defined level, annual budgets, Group director having served nine years 46 the content of the 2010 UK borrowing facilities and in the role.
He was replaced on Corporate Governance Code and consideration of significant financial 24 May 2010 by Tiffany Hall.
will report on compliance with the and operational matters.
The Board The Chief Executive is Matthew Ingle new code as part of the FY2011 also considers legislative, who has held that position since Corporate Governance Report.
The other executive Where the revised provisions have governance and employment issues.
director is Mark Robson, who joined been taken into consideration earlier the Board as Chief Financial Officer The Board holds regular meetings than required, it has been noted.
Will Samuels other and receives accurate and timely particular, the Board has noted commitments include his positions information.
7.1 of the new Code in as Vice Chairman of Lazard & Co. held seven formal Board meetings respect of directors being subject to Chairman of Ecclesiastical and a number of other meetings and annual re-election by shareholders Insurance Group plc, Deputy teleconferences to discuss and review and has chosen to adopt this Chairman of Inchcape plc and progress on issues affecting the provision from the 2011 AGM.
non-executive director of Edinburgh Group during the year.
The Board Investment Trust plc.
Michael also held a separate session in the The Board Wemms holds the position of Senior autumn to review the Groups The role of the Board Independent Director.
This session included The primary purpose of the Board presentations from the Executive For the year ended 25 December is to ensure that the needs and team as well as from external 2010, the following non-executive aspirations of all stakeholders are professionals.
directors were deemed independent satisfied.
The Board seeks to achieve in accordance with the definition of this through the development of a Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 independence contained in the purposes of the Combined Code the Nominations Committee and Combined Code: after the 2011 AGM.
The Board is training are made available to all actively searching for a candidate to directors.
Biographical details of Will Samuel Chairman replace him.
However, the Board the directors are given on page 28. values highly Ian Smiths Angus Cockburn In accordance with the Code, contribution to the Boards the Board has established Audit, deliberations on future strategy and, Ian Smith Remuneration and Nominations in order to provide continuity in the Committees, each with defined Michael Wemms short term and ensure a smooth terms of reference.
The terms of transition of responsibilities, the Peter Wallis reference of these committees are Nominations Committee is resigned 19 May 2010 reviewed regularly.
Membership proposing that Mr Smith be elected of these committees, which is for a further year in 2011.
Tiffany Hall reviewed annually, is shown on appointed 24 May 2010 From 1 October 2008, the Company page 116.
The terms of reference adopted a procedure for authorising are available on request from Non-executive directors are appointed directors conflicts of interest and the Company Secretary and for an initial term of three years, subject potential conflicts of interest in on the Companys website to reappointment by shareholders.
accordance with the provisions of www.
Their letters of appointment are the Companies Act 2006.
The The Board has also established a available for inspection at the Annual procedure is included in the Pensions Committee dealing with General Meeting and on request.
matters associated with the Groups committee appointed by the Board 47 During the year, the Board has pension scheme and a Disclosure comprising the Chairman and Chief reviewed those interests declared by Committee which considers matters Executive agrees the fees of the directors which could conflict with which could give rise to an obligation non-executive directors.
The to make a market announcement Remuneration Committee determines Company is satisfied that the under the FSA Listing Rules.
Under the Articles procedure to authorise potential of Association, all directors are subject In addition to these standing conflicts is operating effectively.
to reappointment by shareholders at committees, the Group has an the first annual general meeting Division of responsibilities Executive Committee comprising following their appointment by the The separate roles of the Chairman those members detailed on Board and thereafter at intervals of no and Chief Executive are clearly page 116.
The principal purpose of more than every three years.
The Chairman is the Committee, which meets twice a provision B.
7.1 the new UK Corporate responsible for leadership of the month, or more frequently if required, Governance Code, the Board has Board, ensuring its effectiveness in is the implementation of the Groups agreed that each of the directors all aspects of its role and setting its strategy and operational plans.
The will be subject to re-election by agenda.
Working with his colleagues Committee monitors the operational shareholders at the 2011 AGM, on the Executive Committee, the and financial performance of the and annually thereafter.
Chief Executive is responsible for business on a divisional basis, as the satisfactory execution of the well as being responsible for the The Board recognises that, having strategy agreed by the Board.
optimisation of resources and served nine years as a nonAppropriate induction as described the identification and control of executive director, Ian Smith may below in the section on operational risk within the Group.
cease to be independent for the Corporate governance report continued Board evaluation the extent to which actions arising and all directors have access to her The Board has adopted a formal from the 2009 evaluation exercise advice and services.
process for reviewing its own had been implemented effectively.
During the year, a formal In addition, interviews were In accordance with the Articles of evaluation of the Boards performance conducted with key shareholders Association, the Company has was carried out by an external, and advisors to gain their views of provided indemnities to the directors independent facilitator, Roxy Fry.
the Board and how they felt the to the extent permitted by the Ms Fry is also periodically engaged Board interacted with shareholders Companies Act in respect of liabilities by the Group in her capacity as a and other stakeholders.
incurred as a result of their office.
In consultant for Trinity Management addition the Company maintains Communications Ltd.
The formal The Senior Independent Director met appropriate insurance cover against evaluation, which comprised a with the non-executive directors in legal action brought against its, or its number of interviews, addressed the absence of the Chairman to subsidiaries, directors and officers.
key topics which included: assess the Chairmans performance.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance the composition of the Board: provides cover in the event that the A report of the evaluation was director is proved to have acted presented to the Board in February 2011 the extent and quality of dishonestly or fraudulently.
and the Board accepted its findings and information provided to the Board: recommendations.
The Board also Attendance the conduct of Board meetings concluded that good and positive The following table shows the number and processes: progress had been made in respect of of meetings individual directors could the actions arising from the 2009 review.
have attended taking account of 48 the extent to which the Board eligibility, appointment and retirement engages in strategic planning: There is a procedure for all directors dates during the year and their actual to take independent external advice, attendance.
For the committees, only the performance of the Chairman, at the Companys expense, in the the attendance of members of that of Board committees and of course of their duties via the committee is shown, although other individual members: Company Secretary.
Working with directors, where appropriate, have the Chairman, the Company the quality of debate within the often also attended at the invitation Secretary is responsible for ensuring Board: and of the chairman of the committee: that Board procedures are followed Main Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Nominations Committee meetings Committee meetings meetings Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Current directors attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance attendance Will Samuel 7 7 3 3 Angus Cockburn 7 7 3 3 3 3 3 2 Tiffany Hall 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 Matthew Ingle 7 7 Mark Robson 7 7 Ian Smith 7 5 3 2 3 2 3 2 Peter Wallis 4 4 1 1 1 1 2 2 Michael Wemms 7 7 3 3 3 3 3 3 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 If a director is unable to attend a reference are considered annually by reviewing the Groups risk meeting, they are nevertheless the Committee and are then referred management processes and provided with all the papers and to the Board for approval.
systems although the Board as information relating to the meeting a whole remains responsible for The Audit Committee met four times and are able to discuss the issues overseeing the overall risk profile in 2010 and has an agenda linked to arising directly with the Chairman of the business : the events in the Groups financial and executive directors.
The Audit Committee monitoring and reviewing the was unable to attend two meetings invites the Chief Executive, the Chief effectiveness of the Companys early in the year whilst still CEO of Financial Officer, the Group Financial internal audit function: Reed Elsevier.
As a result of these Controller, Head of Internal Audit unintended absences, he spent time making recommendations to the and senior representatives of the before and after both meetings with Board in relation to the external auditors to attend all of its the Chairman and executive appointment of the external meetings in full, although it reserves directors discussing the matters auditor and approving the the right to request any of these tabled at those meetings and remuneration and terms of individuals to withdraw.
Other senior ensuring that his views on these engagement of the external management are invited to present were considered.
auditor: such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
Audit Committee reviewing and monitoring the Composition of the external auditors independence Summary of the role of the Audit Committee and objectivity and the Audit Committee In compliance with the Code, during effectiveness of the audit process, 49 The Audit Committee assists the the year the Audit Committee taking into consideration relevant Board in ensuring that the Groups comprised four independent UK professional and regulatory financial systems provide accurate non-executive directors: Angus requirements: and and up-to-date information on its Cockburn, Ian Smith, Michael financial position and that the developing and implementing a Wemms, Peter Wallis until his Groups published financial resignation and thereafter Tiffany policy on the engagement of the statements represent a true and fair external auditor to supply Hall.
The Committee has been reflection of this position.
chaired since 6 March 2007 by non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance Angus Cockburn who, as a qualified The Audit Committee is accountant and Group Finance regarding the provision of responsible for: non-audit services by the external Director of Aggreko plc, fulfils the Committees requirement to include monitoring the integrity of the audit firm.
financial statements of the Group one financially qualified member.
The Audit Committee is also Appointments to the Committee are and any formal announcements responsible for reporting to the relating to the Groups financial for a period of three years and are Board, identifying any matters in extendable by no more than two performance and reviewing respect of which it considers that significant financial reporting additional three year periods.
action or improvement is needed, judgements contained therein: making recommendations as to The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters reviewing the Companys internal the steps to be taken and financial controls and the Groups monitoring the effectiveness of indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the internal control systems: any resulting activity.
The terms of Corporate governance report continued Overview of the actions taken by consideration of the independence monitoring of the Groups policy on the Audit Committee to discharge of the external auditors, Deloitte external audit in line with relevant its duties LLPs own quality control ethical standards and guidance.
The During the year, the Committee procedures and their annual current policy sets out the discharged its responsibilities transparency report: categories of non-audit services through the following activities: which the external auditors will and holding confidential sessions with will not be allowed to provide to the reviewing the Groups 2009 annual the independent auditors and the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
report and financial statements, head of internal audit in the All fees proposed by the external the half yearly financial report absence of executive directors auditors must be reported to and published in July 2010 and the and Company executives: approved by the Audit Committee.
interim management statements: evaluating the performance of the During the year, the external auditors reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function and provided tax advice relating to the Groups internal financial controls agreeing with that function a Groups obligations in respect of with specific reference to controls programme of work: former MFI properties.
The used on a divisional basis and Committee reviewed the nature and receiving reports from the Internal reviewing the disclosures made in cost of this work during the year and Audit function on its work and the annual report and financial approved the ongoing involvement monitoring the status of actions statements on this matter: of Deloitte LLP in this regard as it taken in response to its findings: was concluded that Deloitte were reviewing the processes used by best placed to supply such tax reviewing any activity reported the Group for identifying, 50 services in a cost effective manner under the Groups whistleblowing evaluating and mitigating risks: due to the experience and policy: qualifications of the individuals receiving reports from the external reviewing its own effectiveness as providing such services, their auditors on the conduct of their part of the Boards evaluation knowledge of the Company and its audit, their review of accounting process: and tax affairs and that the best interests policies, areas of judgement of the Company were served by and their comments on risks reviewing the Committees terms engaging them.
Details of Deloitte and controls: of reference and recommending LLPs fees for audit and non-audit minor changes to the Board.
reviewing the proposed plan of work during 2010 are included in work presented by the external note 7 to the financial statements.
External Auditors auditors, including terms of The external audit was last tendered The Committee also has a policy in engagement and fees: in 2002.
This resulted in a change to relation to the employment of former the Groups external auditor, with reviewing the Groups policy on members of the external audit team.
Deloitte LLP replacing the previous the engagement of the external This policy states that whilst the incumbent audit firm.
The auditor for non-audit work: Company would not normally Committee recognises that auditor employ a former member of the assessing the risk of a possible independence is an essential part of external audit team, if appropriate, withdrawal of the external auditors the audit framework and the individual cases may be considered from the market: assurance it provides.
The by the Chairman of the Committee Committee is responsible for the and Chief Financial Officer.
reviewing the effectiveness of the development, implementation and external auditors, including Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 To fulfil its responsibility regarding criteria under the relative standards Overview the independence of the external continued to be met and accordingly As a result of its work during the auditors, the Committee has it was not necessary to tender for the year, the Audit Committee has undertaken a comprehensive audit work.
The Committee has concluded that it has acted in review during 2010 encompassing therefore unanimously recommended accordance with its terms of the following: to the Board that a proposal be put to reference and has ensured the the shareholders at the Annual independence and objectivity of the reviewed the independence of the General Meeting that Deloitte LLP be external auditors.
external auditors and the reappointed as external auditors and arrangements which Deloitte LLP The Chairman of the Audit that the Directors be authorised to fix have in place to identify, report Committee will be available at the their remuneration.
At the year end and manage conflicts of interest: Annual General Meeting to answer the independent auditors formally any questions about the work of confirmed their independence and reviewed changes in key external the Committee.
audit staff for the current year noting the role of the senior Internal Audit Remuneration Committee statutory audit partner, who signs The Audit Committee is required During the year, the Remuneration the audit report and who, in to assist the Board to fulfil its Committee consisted of four accordance with professional rules, responsibilities relating to the independent non-executive has not held office for more than adequacy of resourcing and plans of directors.
The Committee is chaired five years, and the arrangements the internal audit department.
During by Michael Wemms and its for the day to day management of the year, the Committee reviewed: composition is further described in 51 the audit relationship: the Remuneration Report on pages Internal Audits programme of 32 to 45.
It is responsible for advising considered the effectiveness of work and progress made against on the remuneration packages the external auditors through a planned activity: needed to attract, retain and review of their plan of work and motivate executive directors of the the outputs arising from the audit: results of key audits and other required quality.
The Remuneration significant findings including the Committee is responsible for considered the overall extent of adequacy and timeliness of developing strategy and policy on non-audit services provided by managements response: and executive remuneration, deciding on the external auditors, in addition to the remuneration packages of case by case approval of the staffing, reporting and individual executive directors and provision of non-audit services as effectiveness of divisional audits.
reviewing the remuneration and appropriate: and The Groups whistleblowing policy policy of certain other senior considered the likelihood of a contains arrangements for the Head executives who are not on the withdrawal of the auditor from the of Internal Audit to receive, in Board.
The Committee is regularly market and noted that there are no confidence, complaints on assisted in its work by its appointed contractual obligations to restrict accounting, risk issues, internal firm of professional advisers, the the choice of external auditors.
controls, auditing issues and related Chairman, the Chief Executive, the matters for reporting to the Audit Company Secretary and the As a result of its work above, and Committee as appropriate.
Issues Companys internal Human taking into account the tenure of the raised and investigated under this Resources function.
Full details of auditors, the Committee has policy were formally reviewed the Committees work are contained concluded that the independence during the year.
in the Remuneration Report which is incorporated in this Corporate Corporate governance report continued Governance Report by reference.
recruitment process for the role with individual directors annually This report includes details on of non-executive director in to discuss, amongst other things, remuneration policy, terms of anticipation of the fact that, from individual training and development appointment, and the remuneration May 2011, Ian Smith may cease needs.
A record of ongoing training of executive directors.
to meet the independence and development of directors is kept criteria for the purposes of the by the Company Secretary.
All executive directors notice and Combined Code.
Search contract periods do not exceed one consultants have been instructed Relations with shareholders year.
Executive directors service by the Committee in connection The Company considers its contracts also provide that with this process: and relationship with both institutional compensation on termination is and private investors to be important determined by reference to a notice the Committees terms of and readily enters into dialogue with period of 12 months.
reference and any necessary investors.
consulted extensively with its During 2010, the Committee met principal shareholders in the course three times.
In considering the recruitment of of 2010 in relation to the ongoing new non-executive directors, the progress of the Company and also in Nominations Committee Board is mindful of new provision relation to identifying appropriate The Nominations Committee B.
2 in the UK Corporate Governance executive incentive arrangements to consists of the Chairman of the Code which asks the Board to give reflect the changing business profile Board, who chairs the Committee, due consideration to the benefits of the Company.
All of the executive and the independent non-executive of diversity on the Board to ensure directors, the Chairman and the directors.
The Committee keeps an appropriate balance of skills 52 Senior Independent Director met under review the size, composition and experience.
with shareholders during the year and structure of the Board, including and all make themselves available The Groups induction programme for succession, and makes for meetings with shareholders as newly appointed directors recommendations to the Board for required.
The Companys website concentrates on familiarisation with all new appointments and www.
com the businesses of the Group, reappointments.
includes a specific investor relations including meeting directors and section and provides an effective During 2010, the Nominations executives individually, visiting channel for communication with Committee met three times operational locations, discussions existing and potential investors.
The to consider: with the Companys external advisers Board receives regular reports from and visiting a major shareholder.
The the reappointment of directors at the CFO with regard to relations with director also receives a pack of the 2010 AGM: the major shareholders and introductory materials.
developments and changes in their the appointment of Tiffany Hall as Ongoing training and development shareholdings.
The Board also a new non-executive director to for the directors includes attendance commissions regular feedback replace Peter Wallis: at formal conferences and internal reports from the Companys joint events as well as briefings from brokers, UBS and JP Morgan a review of the balance of skills external advisers.
and experience necessary within also encouraged to attend external the Board: The Annual General Meeting AGM seminars and briefings as part provides shareholders with an of their continuous professional the engagement of external opportunity to discuss the Groups development.
The Chairman meets recruitment consultants and the progress and operations directly Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 with the Board.
Shareholders are determined to be significant: The key controls to manage the invited to raise questions at the AGM therefore a confirmation in respect risks to the desired level are which is attended by all the of necessary actions has not been identified.
At the AGM, the Company considered appropriate.
A local database of risks and proposes separate resolutions on i.
Risk management controls is maintained within each each substantially separate issue The Board can confirm that, for the operating division and central and the numbers of proxy votes cast 2010 financial year and up to the service function.
This is for and against each resolution are date of approval of the annual report consolidated into a central register made available to shareholders and financial statements, there has which becomes the key risk when voting has been completed.
been an ongoing process for register for the Group.
The Group The notice of the AGM is sent to identifying, evaluating and managing Risk department facilitates the shareholders at least twenty working the significant risks faced by the identification of these risks and days before the meeting.
Group which is reviewed regularly by provides an independent appraisal the Board and accords with the of the interpretation of the scoring Risk and internal control Turnbull Guidance.
Under the mechanism, to ensure that the key The Board is responsible for the guidance of the Chief Financial risks are brought forward to the Groups system of internal control Officer, it is the responsibility of the Executive Committee.
The and for reviewing its effectiveness, Executive Committee to review the Executive Committee then reviews whilst the role of management is to effectiveness of the risk the key risks to assess the implement Board policies on risk management process and internal effectiveness of the risk and control.
Such a system is, controls on behalf of the Board.
however, designed to manage rather 53 Executive Committee regularly than eliminate the risks of failure to The senior management team reports to the Board on how risks achieve business objectives.
In within each division and within the are being managed.
In addition, pursuing these objectives, internal central functions are responsible there is a mechanism in place to controls can only provide reasonable for the ongoing review of their report significant control assurance against misstatement or functions risk registers.
Regular breakdowns or risk occurrences to loss.
The Combined Code reporting on internal and external the Executive Committee.
recommends that the Board at least changes that affect the risks or their annually reviews the effectiveness of An ongoing process for the effective importance to the business, and the Groups system of internal management of risk has been any risk occurrences, are reported controls, including financial, defined by the Board and is upwards through their register to operational and compliance controls operated in the following stages: the Executive Committee.
The Board has conducted reviews of the Each operating division and Key generic risks and their effectiveness of the system of management are regularly central function identifies key risks internal controls through the reported to and discussed at the through the adoption of both a processes described below and is Executive Committee.
bottom-up and top-down satisfied that it accords both with process.
These key risks are A review of the risk process and the Combined Code and with the regularly reviewed by the senior risk management systems is Turnbull Guidance.
During the management team in each undertaken by the Audit course of its review of the system of division.
The key risks to each Committee annually.
internal control, the Board has not business areas objectives are identified or been advised of any identified and scored for Key risks arising within the failings or weaknesses which it has probability and impact.
business are formally discussed Corporate governance report continued by the Group Board every six Going concern stage the Group has not sought months given that overall risk is The Groups business activities, any written commitment that the a matter reserved for the Board together with the factors likely to facility will be renewed.
affect its future development, renewal negotiations with the bank performance and position are set out in due course.
Internal control in the Chairmans statement on The Group has an established After making enquiries, the directors pages 8 to 9, the Chief Executives framework of internal controls, which have a reasonable expectation that statement on pages 10 to 14 and the includes the following key elements: the Company and the Group have Review of Operations and Finance on adequate resources to continue in pages 15 to 21.
The Review of The Board reviews the strategies operational existence for the Operations and Finance describes of the divisions and the executive foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they the financial position of the Group, its management are accountable for continue to adopt the going concern cash flows, liquidity position, their performance within the basis in preparing the Annual Report borrowing facilities, and the Groups agreed strategies.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its commercial and The Group and its subsidiaries Statement of directors financial risks.
The Groups financial operate control procedures responsibilities risk management objectives and its designed to ensure complete and The directors are responsible exposures to credit risk and liquidity accurate accounting of financial for preparing the Annual Report, risk in relation to financial instruments transactions, and to limit exposure Directors Remuneration Report are described in note 30. to loss of assets or fraud.
and the Financial Statements in Measures taken include physical 54 As highlighted in note 30 to the accordance with applicable law controls, segregation of duties in financial statements, the Group and regulations.
key areas and periodic Internal meets its day to day working capital Audit reviews.
Company law requires the directors requirements through an asset to prepare such financial backed lending facility which is The Audit Committee meets statements for each financial year.
The regularly and its responsibilities are Under that law the directors are current economic conditions create set out above.
It receives reports required to prepare Group financial uncertainty particularly over a the from the Internal Audit function on statements in accordance with level of demand for the Groups the results of work carried out International Financial Reporting products and b the exchange under an annually agreed audit Standards IFRSs as adopted by rate between sterling and both programme.
The Audit Committee the European Union and Article 4 of the Euro and the US dollar which has independent access to the the IAS Regulation and have chosen would impact the cost of the internal and external auditors.
to prepare the parent company Groups operations.
financial statements in accordance Internal Audit facilitates a process The Groups forecasts and with United Kingdom Generally whereby operating entities provide projections have been stress-tested Accepted Accounting Practice certified statements of compliance for reasonably possible adverse United Kingdom Accounting with internal financial controls.
The variations in trading performance.
effectiveness of the key controls The results of this testing show that Under company law the directors detailed in the compliance the Group should be able to operate must not approve the accounts statements are tested cyclically within the level of its current facility unless they are satisfied that they as part of the ongoing Internal and covenants.
The Groups banking give a true and fair view of the state Audit Programme.
facility expires in May 2014 so at this of affairs of the Company and of the Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 profit or loss of the Company for make an assessment of the the review of operations and that period.
Companys ability to continue as a finance along with other going concern.
documents which are In preparing the parent company incorporated into the Directors financial statements, the directors The directors are responsible for Report, together include a fair are required to: keeping adequate accounting review of the development and records that are sufficient to show performance of the business and select suitable accounting policies and explain the Companys the position of the Company and and then apply them consistently: transactions and disclose with the undertakings including the reasonable accuracy at any time the consolidation taken as a whole, make judgements and accounting financial position of the Company together with a description of the estimates that are reasonable and and enable them to ensure that the principal risks and uncertainties prudent: financial statements comply with the they face.
They are also state whether applicable UK responsible for safeguarding the Accounting Standards have been By order of the Board assets of the Company and hence followed: and Matthew Ingle for taking reasonable steps for the Chief Executive prepare the financial statements prevention and detection of fraud on the going concern basis unless and other irregularities.
Mark Robson it is inappropriate to presume that Chief Financial Officer The directors are responsible for the the Company will continue in maintenance and integrity of the business.
2 March 2011 55 corporate and financial information In preparing the Group financial included on the Companys website.
statements, International Accounting Legislation in the United Kingdom Standard 1 requires that directors: governing the preparation and dissemination of financial properly select and apply statements may differ from accounting policies: legislation in other jurisdictions.
present information, including Directors Responsibility accounting policies, in a manner Statement that provides relevant, reliable, We confirm to the best of our comparable and understandable knowledge: information: the financial statements, prepared provide additional disclosures in accordance with the relevant when compliance with the specific financial reporting framework, give requirements in IFRSs is a true and fair view of the assets, insufficient to enable users to liabilities, financial position and understand the impact of profit or loss of the Company and particular transactions, other the undertakings including the events and conditions on the consolidation taken as a whole: entitys financial position and and financial performance: and
