company B U S I N E S S financial oVERVIEW R E V I E W G o v e R n A n C e statements Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 mid CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 26 February 2011 3:17 AM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 41 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 Corporate Governance Report Combined Code This statement, which has been approved by the Board, reports on the Companys compliance during the year ended 31 December 2010 with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in June 2008 available on its website www.
uk and how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied.
Compliance with the principles relating to Directors remuneration is reported within the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 34 to 40.
The Company was fully compliant with the Combined Codes provisions throughout the year.
The Board The Board of Directors currently comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors.
Iain Paterson retired from the Board after ten years service on 8 June 2010 and David Barr was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
On Mr Patersons retirement from the Board, John Hofmeister was appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
This composition, with a separate Chairman and Chief Executive, ensures a balance of responsibilities and authorities.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment include details of their duties and expected time commitments required.
The Directors, together with brief biographical details, are identified on pages 28 and 29.
Excluding the Chairman, 67% of the Board is currently comprised of independent non-executive Directors.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of Ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company may also remove a Director.
In addition, further details of the workings of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 42.
As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010, at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in April 2011, all of the Directors of the Company will submit themselves for re-election.
The non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year term with subsequent reappointment conditional upon an appraisal and review process described below.
Letters of appointment for each of the independent non-executive Directors are available from the Company upon request and their terms of appointment are summarised on page 37.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are set out on pages 36 and 37.
On appointment to the Board, each Director receives comprehensive induction tailored to their experience and needs.
David Barr is receiving an induction to the Group, including site visits to subsidiaries.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors are encouraged to maintain their skills and knowledge to best practice standards and, where appropriate, attend update training courses on relevant topics.
The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible for keeping the Board informed of Corporate Governance developments and maintaining corporate awareness of legislative and regulatory changes.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
The Board normally meets formally five times a year and convened six times during 2010, of which one meeting was held in North America.
Meeting dates are set a year in advance.
Attendance by each of the Directors at Board or Committee meetings is detailed below.
Nomination Remuneration Audit Notes Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held in 2010 6 2 4 4 Richard Hunting 6 2 Dennis Proctor 6 2 Peter Rose 6 George Helland 6 2 4 4 John Hofmeister 6 2 4 4 John Nicholas 6 2 4 4 Iain Paterson 1 3 3 0 0 3 3 2 2 Note 1 retired on 8 June 2010, maximum possible number of meetings to be attended shown in brackets.
David Barr was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2011 and did not attend any meetings during 2010.
Board papers are always circulated in advance of meetings.
These include detailed financial reports on the Groups activities, reports on each operating subsidiary, health and safety, risk management and investor relations reports.
In addition, the meetings held in February and August focus on the full and half year results respectively and the meeting in December focuses on the budget for the following financial year.
Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 mid CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 26 February 2011 3:17 AM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 42 Corporate Governance Report continued authorisation process.
The Board is of the view that these The duties and responsibilities of the Board and its committees are formally agreed by the Board in writing.
procedures operated effectively throughout the year.
In addition, the division of responsibilities between the The Group operates a decentralised management Chairman and Chief Executive is set out in writing and structure to allow for rapid responses to customer agreed by the Board.
Matters specifically reserved for the requirements.
A framework of controls with discretionary Board include, but are not limited to, the following: limits and powers for local management is contained compliance with UK Company Law and the UK within a group manual.
Listing Rules: review of the Groups system of risk management, The Board has three main committees to which it internal control and assess its effectiveness: delegates responsibility and authorities.
approve all Stock Exchange announcements: approve the full and half year financial statements, Nomination Committee including the approval of dividends: Members of the Committee are Richard Hunting consider the Groups commercial strategy and approve Committee chairman, Dennis Proctor and the nonthe annual budget: executive Directors.
Iain Paterson retired from the consider recommendations of the Board subCommittee on 8 June 2010.
The Committee convened committees including Board remuneration, twice during the year and has written terms of reference appointments and their terms of reference.
approved by the Board, which are published on the Companys website.
Committee members in office The Board, its committees and each individual Director participated in all Committee meetings except for George participate in an annual performance evaluation Helland who did not attend the section of the meeting appraisal, the purpose of which is to confirm the which considered his reappointment.
The role of the continued effective contribution and performance of the Committee includes leading the process for Board individual or committee.
Evaluation of the Board was appointments and determining the terms of new undertaken by the non-executive Directors and took appointments.
The Committee also considers succession account of the Directors attendance and their planning which takes into account the experience and contribution at meetings, financial performance of the skills required of Board members.
The Committee met on Group against budget, compliance with corporate 24 August 2010 to consider the reappointment of George governance and best practice guidelines and market Helland for a further one year term.
The Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees were evaluated by the executive In August 2010, the Committee commenced a process to Directors and took account of communication with the appoint a new non-executive Director.
The Committee Board and compliance with terms of reference.
The considered the balance of experience currently evaluation of the Chairman was undertaken by the represented by the Board of Directors and the need to non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent regularly refresh the Board and concluded that a Director Director, and included an assessment of his leadership with oil industry knowledge would enhance its and direction of the Board.
The appraisal of the Chief capabilities.
The Committee appointed Boyden Executive was completed by the non-executive Directors Associates to assist the search process, and after together with the Chairman.
Evaluation of the other reviewing the available candidates completed a formal individual Directors took account of their contribution interview process.
On 14 December 2010 the Committee and, in the case of the Finance Director, the performance met and considered and recommended to the Board the of his executive duties.
appointment of David Barr, effective from 1 January 2011.
Mr Barr has considerable experience in the global oil Prior to the reappointment of a non-executive Director, services sector and is a valuable addition to the Company the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of as it continues its growth strategy.
the Directors contribution and commitment to the Board together with an evaluation of the Boards requirements.
Remuneration Committee In the case of a non-executive Director being Details of the Remuneration Committee are contained reappointed for a term beyond nine years, the Combined within its report on page 34.
The Committee, which Code recommends a particularly rigorous evaluation with convened four times during the year with all members in particular consideration being given to the need to tenure participating, has written terms of reference regularly refresh the Board and to continued approved by the Board, which are published on the independence.
The Nomination Committee undertook Companys website.
During the year, the Committee such an evaluation of George Helland prior to his reviewed its effectiveness and the Chairman reported reappointment for a one year term effective from these findings to the Board.
Iain Paterson retired from the 1October 2010, concluding that he remained a Committee on 8 June 2010.
David Barr joined the committed and independent contributor to the Board.
Committee on 1 January 2011 following his appointment George Helland did not participate in the evaluation to the Board.
process undertaken by the Committee.
Audit Committee The Company has procedures in place to deal with Members of the Committee comprise exclusively the potential conflicts of interest whereby actual and independent non-executive Directors.
John Nicholas was potential conflicts of interest are reviewed, and appointed as Audit Committee chairman on 24 February appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the 2010, succeeding Iain Paterson, who retired from the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict Board and from the Committee on 8 June 2010.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Committee met four times during the year and operates only non-conflicted Directors are involved in the company B U S I N E S S financial oVERVIEW R E V I E W G o v e R n A n C e statements Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 mid CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 26 February 2011 3:17 AM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 43 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 under written terms of reference approved by the Board, During the year, the Committee reviewed its effectiveness which are published on the Companys website.
All and the Chairman reported these findings to the Board.
Committee members attended all meetings held whilst in Institutional Shareholders their tenure during the year.
The Committee normally The Company uses a number of processes for meets in February, April to coincide with the Annual communicating with shareholders, including all stock General Meeting of the Company, August and December.
exchange announcements, the annual and half year The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and the reports, interim management statements issued twice a external auditors are invited to attend all meetings.
year, and the Annual General Meeting to which all The auditors present an audit report at the February, April shareholders are invited.
and August meetings for consideration by the Committee.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Finance Director Their full year report includes a statement on their meet on a one-to-one basis with all principal independence, their ability to remain objective and to shareholders at least twice a year, following the undertake an effective audit.
The Committee considers Companys half and full year results, or when requested and assesses this independence statement on behalf of the to update them on Group performance and strategy.
The Board taking into account the level of fees paid Board is in turn briefed by the Chief Executive, when particularly for non-audit services.
The Committee appropriate, on matters raised by shareholders.
considers the effectiveness of the audit by reviewing and taking account of any Financial Reporting Committee During the year, the Chairman and Senior Independent reports on the auditors, together with input from executive non-executive Director met with a number of management.
 LLP and its shareholders to discuss strategy, governance and other predecessor firms have been the Companys auditors for matters.
Their comments were passed on to the Board by many years.
The Audit Committee is satisfied with their the Chairman.
The non-executive Directors are also effectiveness and their independence and has not available to meet shareholders.
considered it necessary to require an independent tender process.
The Audit Committee considers the The Companys major shareholders are listed, together reappointment of the auditors annually and makes a with the information required under the Disclosure and recommendation to the Board.
6, within the Report of the Committee continued to closely monitor fees paid to the Directors on page 31. auditors in respect of non-audit services, which are analysed within note 9 on page 66 and includes 1.8m in Internal Controls respect of taxation advice and acquisition due diligence.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness the external auditor is monitored by, and, above certain and for compliance with the Turnbull guidance.
The thresholds, requires prior approval from the Committee to internal control system, which has been in place ensure that the provision of such services does not impair throughout 2010 and up to the date of approval of these their independence or objectivity.
At the August meeting, accounts, is an ongoing process designed to identify, which was held immediately prior to the announcement of evaluate and manage the significant risks to which the the half year results, the auditors presented their interim Company is exposed.
These systems of internal control report to the Committee, which included audit scope and are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks, fee estimates for the annual audit.
The Committee therefore they only provide reasonable, but not absolute normally meets with the auditors without executive assurance, against material misstatement or loss in the Directors present at the end of each formal meeting.
financial statements and of meeting internal control objectives.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness Other responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: of the Groups system of internal control for the period monitor and review of reports on the Groups system covered by these financial statements, the key features of of internal control: which are as follows: review of reports from the Groups internal audit process and agreement of internal audit scope: Management Structure within operational parameters review of the external auditors independence and set by the Board, management is delegated to the effectiveness of the audit process and assess the level executive Directors.
Subsidiaries operate within clearly and quality of service in relation to fees paid: defined policies and authorities contained within a group monitor the Groups financial statements and manual under a fide-centralised management structure.
All announcements: and senior management changes require the prior approval of monitor and approve engagements of the external the Chief Executive.
auditor to provide non-audit services to the Group.
Reporting and Consolidation all subsidiaries submit The Board received copies of all reports submitted to the detailed financial information in accordance with a Audit Committee.
This includes weekly, bi-monthly and quarterly treasury reports, monthly The Senior Independent non-executive Director, John management accounts, annual budgets and two-year Hofmeister, is the primary point of contact for staff of the plans, together with half year and annual statutory Company to raise in confidence, concerns they may have reporting.
The Groups consolidation process is over possible improprieties, financial or otherwise.
All maintained and updated with regular communication, employees have been notified of this arrangement including distribution of a group manual to all reporting through the corporate magazine, Company notice boards units.
The Group monitors and reviews new UK Listing and the Companys website.
Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 mid CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 26 February 2011 3:17 AM Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 44 Corporate Governance Report continued Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules, accounting statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true standards, interpretations and amendments and legislation and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the and other statutory requirements.
Subsidiary reporting Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
entities are supported by instruction from Group and structured training.
All data is subject to review and In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are assessment by management through the monitoring of required to: key performance ratios and comparison to targets and select suitable accounting policies and apply them budgets.
The content and format of reporting is kept consistently: under review and periodically amended to ensure make judgements and accounting estimates that are appropriate information is available.
reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU Strategic Planning and Budgeting strategic plans and annual budgets containing comprehensive financial have been followed, subject to any material departures projections are formally presented to the Board for disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and adoption and approval and form the basis for monitoring performance.
Clearly defined procedures exist for capital prepare the financial statements on the going concern expenditure proposals and authorisation.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Quality Assurance most of the business sectors within which the Group operates are highly regulated and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate subsidiaries are invariably required to be accredited, by accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the customer or an industry regulator, to national or the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial international quality organisations.
These organisations undertake regular audits and checks on subsidiary position of the Company and the Group and to enable procedures and practices ensuring compliance with them to ensure that the financial statements and the regulatory requirements.
Remuneration Committee Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Monitoring Process in addition to reports from external statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors auditors, the Audit Committee receives reports from the are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the internal auditor and monitors the internal audit process, Group and the Company and for taking reasonable steps as part of the Groups internal audit and risk assessment for the prevention and detection of fraud and other programme.
An annual programme of internal audit irregularities.
assignments is approved by the Audit Committee.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and All subsidiaries undertake formal self assessment risk integrity of the Companys website, www.
reviews a minimum of three times a year on their internal Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the control environment.
These reviews encompass the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may identification of the key business, financial, compliance differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
and operational risks facing the business, together with an assessment of the controls in place for managing and Pursuant to the Financial Service Authoritys Listing Rules mitigating these risks.
Additionally, risks are evaluated for and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, each of the their potential impact on the business.
The results of these Directors, whose names and responsibilities are listed on reviews, together with a review of risks facing the Group page 29, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and as a whole, are reported to the Board.
belief: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Code of Conduct recently published, the Code of IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view Conduct contains policies and procedures covering how of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the Company: and the Group conducts business and maintains its relationships with business partners.
The Code of the Business Review on pages 6 to 27 includes a fair Conduct is available on the Companys website for review of the development and performance of the Groups operations and the position of the Group and employees and business partners.
Compliance with the Code will be regularly monitored.
the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities By Order of the Board The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Committee Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Peter Rose adopted by the European Union EU.
Under Company Company Secretary Law, the Directors must not approve the financial 24 February 2011
