Strategy Performance Governance Financials Board of Directors 1.
Iain Napier, FCMA She was appointed to the Board as Corporate The Board is our Development Director in July 2007, with Chairman, 61 responsibility for strategic planning, business Appointed Chairman in January 2007. principal decision making development and corporate affairs, and she was Non-Executive Director from March 2000. akey member of the Altadis acquisition team.
forum and is accountable Chairman of Nominations Committee.
Following her appointment as Chief Operating Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass Officer in March 2009, Alison took on responsibility to shareholders for our PLC, Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and then for all of the Groups sales and marketing, ofBass Brewers and Bass International Brewers.
manufacturing and cigar business activities, performance and the He was then Vice President UK and Ireland for whilstretaining her existing responsibilities.
He was Chief good conduct of Non-Executive Director, Inchcape plc since Executive of Taylor Woodrow International Housing 1 July 2009. and Development from 2001 to 2005. our affairs.
Non-Executive Chairman of McBride PLC and Our Board focuses on areasthat John Menzies plc, and a Non-Executive Director 3.
Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA ofMolson Coors Brewing Company and William are important to our shareholders Finance Director, 58 Grant & Sons Holdings Limited.
strategy, risk management, operational Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996. performance, leadership development Chief Executives Committee to 30 September 2010 and regulatory matters.
and Operating Executive from 1 October 2010.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Chief Executive, 44 Limited from November 1989 and one of the Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010. for moreinformation visit: three-man Hanson team involved in the strategic Chief Executives Committee to 30 September 2010: www.
com reorganisation of the Group.
Since then he has Operating Executive and Development Executive played an integral part in shaping the strategic from 1 October 2010. direction of the Group.
Alison joined Imperial Tobacco in 1999 and was No external Director appointments.
appointed as Chief Executive on 13 May 2010.
She has held a number of senior roles in the Group including Director of Finance & Planning, Regional 4.
Graham Blashill, BSC Director Western Europe, Corporate Development Group Sales and Marketing Director, 63 Director and Chief Operating Officer.
Previously she was with  Appointed to the Board in October 2005. where she had worked with Imperial Tobacco Chief Executives Committee to 30 September 2010: forseveral years in a number of areas, Operating Executive and Development Executive .
Alison became Group Financial Controller in Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing 2001 and was responsible for the financial activities.
With over 40 years experience with the management and control of the Group.
In 2003 Group he has held a number of senior sales and she became Director of Finance & Planning and a marketing positions, including Managing Director member of the Chief Executives Committee, the UKand Regional Director for Western Europe.
then senior management steering group No external Director appointments.
responsible for implementing Group strategy.
In 2005 Alison was appointed Sales and Marketing Regional Director for Western Europe.
Pierre Jungels, CBE HON, PHD, C ENG Serves on the Board of Compass Partners 10.
Mark Williamson, CA SA InternationalLLP and is currently General Counsel Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 66 Non-Executive Director, 52 forSmiths Group plc.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2002.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: Chairman of Audit Committee: Memberof the Nominations Committee and the  Committee 8.
Non-Executive Director, 53 Pierre has held numerous senior international Mark has considerable international financial Appointed Non-Executive Director in positions within the oil industry with Shell andgeneral management experience.
He joined International, Petrofina SA and British Gas PLC.
December 2004. International Power in 2000 as Group Financial He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in 1996, leading Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Controller and was appointed to the Board as the business to substantial geographic and Remuneration Committee.
Previously, he financial growth until retirement in November 2001.
Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods wasGroup Financial Controller and Group Chief Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director Limited from October 1998 until January 2004, Accountant at Simon Group, the engineering and of Baker Hughes Inc. Chairman of Rockhopper latterly as Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores bulk chemicals storage group.
Exploration PLC and a Non-Executive Director Limited.
Prior to this she was worldwide President Serves on the Board of International Power plc.
ofWoodside Petroleum Ltd. and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, a part of Diageo plc.
Susan is also a former Non-Executive Director of SSL International 11.
Matthew Phillips, LLB plc, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Wm 6.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD, M Inst M General Counsel & Company Secretary to 30 Morrison Supermarkets plc and a former council Non-Executive Director, 58 September 2010: Group Corporate & Legal member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Affairs Director and Company Secretary from Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and Nominations Committee.
1 October 2010, 40 Non-Executive Director of Compass Group PLC Ken is an independent management consultant Appointed Company Secretary in October 2004. and Enterprise Inns Plc.
Also fellow of the Royal and a co-founder and Director of K-Energy, an Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Chairman Society of Arts.
He was President, ofthe Risk Co-ordination Committee, Secretary to Asia Pacific of Allied Domecq from 1996 until its and Member of the Chief Executives Committee acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
Prior to to 30 September 2010: Operating Executive and 9.
Berge Setrakian joining Allied Domecq, he held senior management Development Executive from 1 October 2010, Non-Executive Director, 61 positions in the Asia Pacific region with Seagram, Secretary to the Board and to the Audit, Appointed Non-Executive Director in June 2008.
Interbrew and International Distillers & Vintners Ltd Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal Director of K-Energy Pty Limited.
department in 2000 and was closely involved Berge is a senior partner in the law firm Dewey inthe acquisitions of Reemtsma and Altadis.
&LeBoeuf LLP and has extensive expertise in Previously he worked for law firms Linklaters international transactions.
He was a Non-Executive andBurges Salmon.
Director of Altadis, S. A. having been appointed in 7.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor May 2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of No external Director appointments.
Non-Executive Director, 57 Investcom, a telecommunications company which Appointed Non-Executive Director in July 2007. was acquired in 2006 by MTN, a  Committee, Audit Committee and based company.
Berge is currently the Executive Remuneration Committee.
Chairman and CEO of AGBU, the largest Michael was formerly General Counsel and Head philanthropic Armenian organisation in the world.
of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with He also serves as a Non-Executive Director on overall responsibility for corporate acquisitions and various not-for-profit organisations.
divestments and has extensive experience of both Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New private and public market transactions.
York, Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive Director of The Morganti Group, Inc. 6 7 8 9 10 11 57
