Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Governance Report Our commitment to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and business conduct remains fundamental to ensuring our long-term sustainability.
3 Board balance and independence: How do Introduction we ensureasensible balance of Executive and We remain committed to high standards of corporate Non-Executive Directors?
conduct and this report, together with the Directors 4 Appointments to the Board: How rigorous is our Remuneration Report, seeks to explain how in practice procedure for the appointment of new directors to weapply the principles of good governance advocated by theBoard?
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published inJune 2008 the Code.
This report also includes the 5 Information and professional development: How do we information required by the Disclosure and Transparency induct and regularly inform our Board?
Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys corporate 6 Performance evaluation: How do we formally evaluate governance statement, with the exception of the information our Board and Committees performance annually?
7 Re-election: How do we ensure planned and The Code sets out governance recommendations and best progressive refreshing of the Board?
practice provisions which apply to UK listed companies and B. Remuneration with which companies must either comply or provide an explanation for areas of non-compliance.
The Code is 1 The level and make-up of remuneration: What is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils our approach to remuneration and how do we link website www.
2 Procedure: What is our formal procedure for developing It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully our policy on executive remuneration?
compliant with the Code throughout the 2009 2010 financialyear.
C. Accountability and audit 1 Financial reporting: How do we ensure we In light of the UK Corporate Governance Code the present aclear and balanced assessment of the RevisedCode published in June 2010 we are reviewing Companys position?
and, if appropriate, will enhance our governance and internal control processes.
As advocated by the Revised Code, we 2 Internal control: What does our Board do to maintain are introducing annual re-election for all Directors with effect asound system of internal control?
from our Annual General Meeting AGM in 2011 and, in 3 Audit Committee and Auditors: How do we formally addition, we are proposing a resolution to amend our Articles apply financial reporting and internal control principles?
D. Relations with shareholders 1 Dialogue with institutional shareholders: How does How we meet our governance ourBoard ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with responsibilities inpractice shareholders takes place?
Directors 2 Constructive use of the AGM: How does the Board effectively use the AGM to engage with investors?
1 The Board: How do we ensure the Company is headed by an effective, collectively responsible Board?
2 Chairman and Chief Executive: How do we ensure no one individual has unfettered powers of decision?
