BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report Corporate governance report Ken Hanna Chairman Introduction from the Chairman The highest standards of governance help strengthen On the following pages we explain how we have used management and underpin decisions made by the Board corporate governance to help govern our processes during and the Executive Committee to deliver on shared goals in the past year.
the interests of all our stakeholders.
As Chairman it is my responsibility to ensure that the Board is able to operate effectively and in order to do this we need to have the right people with the right skills and the right information to enable open and productive discussions and decision making.
Ken Hanna, Chairman As a Board we have followed closely the developments in corporate governance during 2010 and the recommendations made and will implement the changes over the coming year.
The Board met seven times during the year and attendance is Compliance statement shown in the table on page 34.
It is the Boards view that the Company has been fully compliant with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance Matters discussed at the board meetings are set out in a Code throughout the year.
The following sections explain how formal schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board which is the Company has complied with the main and supporting available at www.
The principles of the Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code Board delegates some decisions to its Committees as there new Code was published in June 2010 and replaces the are issues best served by further discussions within specific Code.
The new Code applies to companies with accounting committee structures.
Further information on the Committees periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Whilst our formal can be found in their reports on pages 38 to 40.
Day to day obligation for 2010 is to report by reference to the Code, we have management is the responsibility of the Executive Directors and taken account of the new Code when preparing this report.
The Board is responsible for monitoring management and continually reviews their performance against The information required under DTR 7.2.
6 is given on pages the goals and targets set for the Companys long term plans, 49 to 50 and forms part of the Corporate Governance Report.
taking into account risks and opportunities facing the business.
The scheduled board meetings also included an overseas Going concern board meeting, meetings at two UK dealerships and a two day Details of the Groups business activities can be found in strategy meeting.
The Board and Executive Committee also have the Operating and Financial Reviews on pages 13 to 21.
The an annual informal dinner.
principal risks of the Group are shown on pages 22 to 23.
The Financial statements are shown on pages 51 to 120.
The overseas board meeting took place in the Groups Toyota business in Belgium.
The visit included meetings with After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable key management and an overview of operations.
The UK expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate operational board meetings were held at Croydon and Romford resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable after which the Board was given a tour of the dealerships.
As such, the Company and the Group continue to board meetings offer the Board an excellent opportunity to see adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report first hand the running of the business and to meet and talk to andAccounts.
Directors At the two day strategy meeting the Board and the Executive Committee developed the strategic plan.
The two day event The Board included detailed presentations from members of the Executive The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success Committee on key markets and operational issues, human of the Company.
In order to achieve success the Board is resources, including a discussion on succession planning, responsible for setting the strategic goals for the Group whilst Group strategy and financial updates.
The Board was also given ensuring that adequate financial and human resources a presentation on Inchcape Advantage and an update on are available.
Achievement of the strategic goals are also risk management.
An industry expert attended as part of the dependent on a system of effective controls which enable risk Board discussion on the industry landscape, market trends, to be managed and assessed, and these controls underpin technological developments and mobility trends.
the Boards decision making process.
The Board also has The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met during the responsibility for ensuring that these controls are robust and for year without the Executive Directors present.
setting the values and standards of the Group.
com 33 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Corporate governance report continued Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee CR Committee Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Number Attended Simon Borrows 2 2 1 1 Alison Cooper 7 7 4 4 Ken Hanna 7 7 3322 Andr Lacroix 7 7 2233 John McConnell 7 7 Nigel Northridge 77433 3 Graham Pimlott 6 6 4 4 Will Samuel 77443322 David Scotland 7744332233 Michael Wemms 7644332233 Simon Borrows joined the Group on 6 October 2010 Graham Pimlott left the Group on 31 October 2010 Chairman and Chief Executive Directors industry Balance of Executive As Chairman, Ken Hanna has responsibility for the leadership background experience Non-Executive Directors of the Board.
The Chairman ensures that the Board receives Financial 56% Non-Executive timely, accurate and concise information before each board Directors 67% Retail 44% meeting, that the agenda addresses all relevant issues and that Executive Directors 22% there is adequate time available for open debate amongst all Chairman 11% the board members.
Andr Lacroix is the Group Chief Executive with responsibility for the leadership of the Executive Committee and day to day operations of the Group.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive to ensure an appropriate balance of power andauthority.
During the year Ken Hanna became a Non-Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
Ken is also a Non-Executive Director of Tesco Will Samuel is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent plc.
The Board is satisfied that these additional commitments Non-Executive Director.
In his role, Will is available to any do not have an impact on the time commitment Ken has to shareholders whose concerns have not been resolved by the the Company and welcome the additional experience and Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director.
knowledge these positions will bring to the Boards discussions.
No such concerns arose during 2010.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is also available to act as an intermediary Appointments to the Board between board members if necessary.
It is important to the Company to maintain a strong skills Board balance and independence base across the Board members as this brings a depth of knowledge and experience to the matters under discussion.
The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, six NonThe Board regularly reviews its membership against objective Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
The biographies criteria to ensure that it remains appropriate to the business.
of the Directors are set out on page 30.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending Simon Borrows was appointed a Non-Executive Director on board appointments to the Board and an external consultancy 6 October 2010 and replaced Graham Pimlott as the Audit assists with the selection process.
Further information on the Committee Chairman on 1 November 2010.
Further details Nominations Committee can be found on page 38. of Simons appointment can be found in the Nominations Information and professional development Committee Report on page 38.
Graham decided to step down for personal reasons and left the Group on 31 October 2010.
All members of the Board receive a full board pack prior to Nigel Northridge replaced Michael Wemms as Chairman of each board or committee meeting.
Ensuring that the Board the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 January 2011. has access to all the information available regardless of Michael will remain a member of the Remuneration Committee.
whether they are committee members enables the Directors to keep themselves informed of all matters under discussion.
The All the Non-Executive Directors are considered independent in Board also receives regular additional financial updates on accordance with the Code.
Will Samuel and Michael Wemms performance and governance to enable them to stay informed are both Non-Executive Directors of Howden Joinery Group between board meetings.
Having regard to all the circumstances, including the fact that there are no cross shareholdings or business relationships All Directors receive a full induction programme on joining between Howden Joinery Group plc and the Company, the the Company which is designed to give the new director a Board is satisfied and has determined that they are independent comprehensive understanding of business operations and in respect of these roles.
Simon Borrows is Chairman of Greenhill strategy.
Simon Borrows received an induction in 2010 and his & Co International Ltd. Whilst Greenhill advised the Company programme consisted of a brieng with the General Counsel on its Rights Issue in 2009, this was a discreet activity and Simon and Group Company Secretary on his duties as a director did not have an active day to day role, therefore the Board and his obligations under the Code and the Disclosure and considers that Simon is independent.
Transparency Rules and one on one meetings with the members 34 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION of the Executive Committee and functional heads including tax, Re-election treasury and finance.
Simon also made site visits to Jaguar and In accordance with the provisions of the Code and Article Land Rover, Toyota, Lexus and Ford in Guildford, BMW in Croydon 74 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors are and Audi in Crawley.
The site visits are designed to give a full currently required to stand for election at the first AGM after their overview of the day to day operations of the business.
appointment and for re-election every three years thereafter.
Simon Borrows will stand for election as it is his first AGM after The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors appointment to the Board and Andr Lacroix and Will Samuel continually update their knowledge and familiarity with the will stand for re-election.
The Directors are able to obtain independent professional advice should they require it in order to carry out their duties.
As part of each meeting, the Board receive a governance Remuneration update from the Company Secretariat team to ensure that they Details of remuneration are set out in the Remuneration are fully informed of their obligations, best practice and any new Committee Report on page 40 and in the Directors Report on developments which are significant to them.
Performance evaluation Accountability and Audit A statement of the Directors responsibility for reporting the Process Financial statements is set out on pages 49 to 50.
An external facilitator was employed to carry out the The Board sets the tone for the Groups risk appetite and performance evaluation of the Board.
The evaluation culture and retains overall responsibility for risk management covered the effectiveness of the Board, each committees and internal control processes.
After the roll out of the performance against its objectives, risk management, Inchcape Peace of Mind iPOM programme in 2009, the iPOM board meetings, corporate governance, strategy and the Committee was established with responsibility for the day to day skills set of the Board.
Principal risks are validated and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Primary updates to the key risks are completed following the annual strategy meeting.
Focus Risks are identied and captured using an agreed risk framework The changes to the Board since 2009 have provided an which includes compliance with external reporting requirements.
opportunity to review the effectiveness of the Board and The Board annually assesses the processes to ensure they individual directors in discharging their duties.
Following the remain relevant and robust.
The systems and processes can only evaluation the Board have identied the following areas provide a reasonable but not absolute assurance against any offocus: material misstatement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
t with greater emphasis generally on risk management, the The Board regularly reviews the control procedures and Board will review the Groups risk management approach monitoring systems in the following areas: and in particular how it discharges its responsibilities.
Financial reporting t as the new Code comes into force, the Board will There is a comprehensive system with an annual budget review its policies to ensure that it continues to adopt approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reviewed bestpractices.
and reported against budget and, where appropriate, revised forecasts are presented at Board meetings.
The data Identication of actions consolidated into the Groups Financial statements is reviewed by management to ensure that it reects the true position of the Following the evaluation, the Board members concluded Group and complies with approved accounting policies.
that appropriate actions had been identied to address Investment appraisal areas that could be improved and that, overall the Board and Committees continued to perform effectively.
The Group has clearly dened policies for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
This process is managed by the Group Individual performance evaluation Capital Committee.
As part of the evaluation process the Chairman evaluated Internal Audit the performance of the Non-Executive Directors and met The adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups internal control each of them individually to discuss their performance.
The systems are monitored by the Internal Audit team who report to Non-Executives Directors also met without the presence of the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Internal Audit also works the Chairman to evaluate his performance during the year.
closely with management and the external auditor.
Business Unit Controls Conclusion Each business in the Group is required to identify its key risks and the control procedures in place to mitigate those risks.
This Following the performance evaluation process, the evaluation takes place twice a year as part of the preparation Chairman has confirmed that the Non-Executive and update of the business plans.
Financial reporting systems Directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate are monitored through regular reporting and are continually commitment to their roles, the Board will continue to review reviewed by management.
com 35 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Corporate governance report continued During 2010, the Managing Director and Finance Director of identied and reviewed both at Group and operational level.
This each business unit in the Group signed a compliance certicate allows a cross market and cross functional risk management to confirm: approach as well as allowing for the early identication of issues that may arise.
t the accuracy and completeness of the accounts submitted for consolidation: Through this structure, and depending on the nature of a risk, risks are managed, monitored and escalated for discussion t compliance with local laws and regulations: with the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the t the absence of fraud: Board as appropriate and in accordance with approved terms of reference.
Specically, the Group iPOM Committee manages t the absence of conicted directorships: and compliance with agreed policies and applicable legislation, t compliance with Inchcape policies.
is responsible for issuing new and updated policies to reect changes in both regulation and the Groups risk prole and seeks Details of the Audit Committee can be found in the Audit to identify key emerging or systematic risks before issues arise.
Building on the lessons learnt since the introduction of iPOM iPOM and taking into account best practice, the iPOM Committee The iPOM programme aims to maximise the opportunities has reviewed the Groups approach to risk identication, to improve performance and meet strategic goals with an mitigation and management and operates a more streamlined integrated, simple approach to risk management.
Our seven approach using eight principal categories which are shown step structure provides a framework with which each risk based on pages 22 to 23.
This ensures consistency across all key risk activity must comply and be assessed against.
In addition the iPOM Committee has eliminated Each market has an iPOM Committee which reports into the duplication of risk processes which enables more consistent Group iPOM Committee.
This provides a structure for risks to be tracking and action plans to be utilised.
Inchcape committee structure Inchcape plc Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Corporate Committee Committee Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: Financial Reporting Remuneration Policy Group Strategy Balance of the Board Oversight of the Financial Risk Management Incentive Plans Operational Management Leadership of the Group Group CR Programme Internal Control Performance Targets Delegated authorities: Delegated authorities: iPOM Committee Group Capital Committee Risk Oversight Oversight of Group Principal Risks Assessment Capital Expenditure Control Processes Director and the Director of Audit and Risk.
Operational heads Executive committee are invited to attend for all or part of any meeting.
From 2011 the The Executive Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Group HR Director will become a member of the Committee.
Biographies of the members of the Executive Committee can be found on pages 31 to 32.
The Committee met five times during 2010 to review risk management and control processes.
It is the principal The Committee has responsibility for managing the day to day operational risk committee.
Its review covers such matters as operations of the Group.
The Committee met four times during responses to significant risks that have been identied, output 2010.
These meetings were held over a number of days and from monitoring system processes and changes made to the the Committee discussed all aspects of the business and the internal controlsystems.
Group Capital Committee GCC The Committee delegates various areas to sub-committees.
These are: The GCC consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Business Development Director, the iPOM Committee Group Financial Controller, the General Counsel and Group The iPOM Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
Its Company Secretary and the Group Capital Projects Manager.
members are the Group Finance Director, the General Counsel The Committee meets on a regular basis and its remit is the and Group Company Secretary, the Group Corporate Affairs oversight of capital expenditure for the Group.
36 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
