BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors Report: Governance Investor relations Investor relations Shareholder prole Analyst coverage As at 31 December 2010 the Company had 7,830 holdings on We are aware of 12 analysts who have regularly published notes its register of ordinary shareholders 2009: 8,837.
71% of the on the Company during 2010 and we provide names of these total share register was held on behalf of investment institutions analysts, their rms and contact details on our website.
such as pension funds, mutual funds, insurance funds and funds Total shareholder return TSR managed for private individuals 2009: 69%.
The majority of The following graph illustrates the Groups TSR over a five year funds are managed from the UK including 8% in Scotland.
period, relative to the performance of the total return index of the Register analysis by holder FTSE mid-250 group of companies excluding investment trusts.
TSR Register analysis by is essentially share price growth plus re-invested dividends.
The FTSE geography mid-250 has been chosen as the most suitable comparator group Unit trusts & UK as it is the general market index in which the Company appears.
mutual funds USA Pension funds Israel Insurance Europe companies Historical TSR performance Other Private investors Other 200 150 100 significant shareholdings 50 As at 7 March 2011, the Company had been notied of the following significant interests: 0 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Holding No.
of shares % holding Inchcape FTSE mid 250 excluding investment trust Prudential plc 55,333,305 12.01 Mr George Horesh 41,487,781 8.99 Source: Datastream Axa SA 29,285,293 6.36 Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five FMR LLC 23,633,665 5.13 years FTSE 250 excluding investment companies comparisons based on 30 trading day average values.
These are updated on the Companys website Dealing in Inchcape shares Communication with shareholders The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock A comprehensive investor relations programme has been in Exchange.
Prices are reported daily in the Financial Times and on place for many years with senior management, Executive and our website.
For further information please call Computershare Non-Executive Directors meeting with existing and prospective Investor Services on 44 0 870 707 1076. institutional investors on a regular basis.
These meetings cover a wide range of issues including strategy, performance and The share price by volume graph shows the steady growth in governance.
During the year, over 170 existing or prospective the share price closing at 356.6p as at 31 December 2010.
The shareholders or their representatives attended meetings, Companys shares trade within the FTSE 250 index and at the year roadshows or conferences held by the Company.
143 by market capitalisation in the FTSE 350 2009: 136.
The Companys market capitalisation at 31 December Shareholders are also kept informed through regular press 2010 was 1,642.1m 2009: 1,374.3m.
The average daily number releases.
These are made available to the London Stock of shares traded on the London Stock Exchange was 1.97m 2009: Exchange and the Companys website.
Presentations were 2.47m adjusted for Share Consolidation.
This represents an average held for analysts for our annual and half year results.
Recorded of 0.43% of the Companys shares traded each day 2009: 0.54%.
conference calls are also held on the release of Interim Management Statements for analysts.
These presentations and calls are recorded and published on the Company website so Share price by volume during 2010 that all investors may access them.
The Board is provided with regular updates on the views and 400 80 issues raised by the Companys investors.
During the year, the 350 70 Board received external presentations from advisors, including 300 60 the Companys brokers, on shareholder and market perception 250 50 200 of the Companys strategy.
40 150 30 Annual General Meeting AGM 100 20 50 10 The Board is equally concerned with the views of private 0 0 shareholders and encourages them to attend the AGM which Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 10 gives shareholders the opportunity to ask questions and vote on resolutions.
If shareholders are unable to attend they can Inchcape share price Volume give their views using the prepaid reply form issued each year Source: Datastream with the AGM documentation.
The Company complies with the Code as it relates to voting, the proposal of separate resolutions Electronic communications on each substantially separate issue and the attendance of To reduce printing and paper usage, shareholders are Committee Chairmen.
Details of proxy voting by shareholders, encouraged to sign up to receive electronic communications.
including votes withheld, are made available on the Companys Details are on the Companys website.
com 37 Total monthly volume m Month end price p Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Corporate governance report continued CR Committee report Nominations Committee report David Scotland Ken Hanna Chairman Chairman Responsibilities Responsibilities The key responsibilities of the CR Committee are to: The key responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are to: t Consider the Groups CR strategy and monitor relevant t Evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience external developments: on the Board: t Review the Groups CR policy and to consider whether it t Nominate suitable candidates to the Board for approval: continues to meet the Groups CR strategy and objectives: t Review the leadership needs of the Group: and t Review and monitor the Groups CR risk exposure: t Election and re-election of Directors at the AGM.
t Review and approve the annual CR Report.
The full terms of reference can be found at Full terms of reference can be found at www.
com about us governance www.
com about us governance A formal Committee of the Board was established in 2010 The Nominations Committee is chaired by Ken Hanna.
It to review and monitor the CR strategy implemented by the comprises three Non-Executive Directors and the Group Chief Company.
The CR Committee is chaired by David Scotland Executive.
The Group HR Director and external advisors may and consists of two Non-Executive Directors, the Group Chief be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and Executive, the Group HR Director and the General Counsel and whenappropriate.
The Committee met twice during 2010.
Attendance is set out in The Committee met three times during 2010.
Attendance of the table on page 34. these meetings is set out in the table on page 34.
Activities Activities After evaluating the balance of the Board, the Committee During 2010, the Committee evaluated the scope of the CR recommended the appointment of a new Non-Executive activities of the Group with a view to ensuring that the Groups Director and prepared a description of the role and skills day to day business operations respond to the opportunities, required.
An external consultant assisted with the search and and avoid the risks, posed by CR issues.
Through a network of Simon Borrows was identied as a suitable candidate.
Simon locally based CR Champions, employees with global and local received a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what responsibilities support the work of the CR Committee.
Our is expected of him in terms of time commitment, Committee activities are focused through our Aware campaign.
service and involvement outside of Board meetings.
The remit of the CR Committee is to: The Committee also reviewed the experience of the current Board members and the skills required to effectively discharge its duties.
t seek to eliminate discriminatory practices in our business: The Committee advised that the skills and experience of the t promote the support of fundamental human rights in all our current Board members remained adequate and appropriate.
operations: During the year, the Committee endorsed the establishment t support our brand partners in seeking to enforce positive of a formal CR Committee as it was recognised that CR is an labour practices: important part of the strategic agenda and would benefit from a formal Board Committee.
The Committee approved its terms of t support freedom of association and as applicable, collective reference and membership and confirmed that there should be bargaining arrangements: at least three meetings per year.
t monitor and report accidents and lost time incidents to The Committee recommended the election of Alison Cooper, ensure that the safety of our staff and customers remains at Nigel Northridge and Graham Pimlott at the 2010 AGM, all of the top of our agenda: and whom were elected by shareholders for a three year term.
The t review policies and procedures for our people and have Committee recommends the re-election of Andr Lacroix and Will appropriate training programmes in place.
Samuel and the election of Simon Borrows, by shareholders, at Full details can be found in the CR Report on pages 24 to 29. the 2011 AGM.
The Committee also reviewed its membership and terms of reference during the year to ensure it remained compliant with the principles of the Code.
38 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION with his appointment.
The Board and senior management also Audit Committee report provide input into the auditors own review of their performance.
After the formal review the Committee agreed that the auditors remained effective during 2010.
The Committee also agreed the role of the auditors for 2011 and their fees for the coming year.
The Committee reviewed its policy regarding the scope and extent of non audit services provided to it by its auditors during the year.
The purpose of the policy is to ensure that the external Simon Borrows auditors remain objective and independent.
The Committee is Chairman responsible for approving the engagement of the auditors for any non audit work and restrictions are imposed on permitted Responsibilities areas of non audit work.
The Committee tests the performance of the auditors against this policy and reviews all the factors The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: in the engagement of the auditors in non audit work.
After t Monitor the integrity of the Financial statements including reviewing the performance of the auditors the Committee all formal announcements relating to performance: agreed that they remain independent.
t Monitor the audit of annual accounts: Following the assessment of effectiveness and independence, the Committee makes its recommendation to the Board for the t Review Group accounting policies: re-appointment of the auditors by the shareholders at the AGM.
t Review internal controls and risk management systems: A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non audit services t Whistleblowing: is provided in note 3d on page 74. t Review internal audit function: The Committee received reports from the Internal Audit team at each Committee meeting to enable it to review and monitor t Recommend the appointment of external auditors: and the Groups internal control procedures and processes.
These t Oversee the relationship with external auditors.
reports provide the Committee with an update from Group Internal Audit on their activities in accordance with the 2009 The full terms of reference can be found at and 2010 audit plans.
The reports also contained the results www.
com about us governance from the Key Control Questionnaire which is completed by senior management and gives an overview of how each of the Graham Pimlott was the Chairman of the Audit Committee until Groups business units are complying with business processes 31 October 2010 after which Simon Borrows was appointed as and controls and the Principal Risks Assessment which Chairman.
All members of the Committee are independent establishes the key risks facing the Group.
Reports were also Non-Executive Directors.
Will Samuel is a chartered accountant received from the external auditors.
and the Board has determined that he has recent and relevant Any concerns under the Groups Whistleblowing Policy financial experience as required by the Code.
are reported at the Committee meetings.
The policy is Only members of the Committee have the right to attend communicated to employees on a global basis and enables Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the employees to raise concerns with the Disclosure Response Team Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group in cases where conduct may be deemed to be contrary to the Audit and Risk Director and external auditors attend by invitation.
The Committee met four times during 2010.
Two meetings are The Committee also reviewed its membership and terms of scheduled to coincide with the financial calendar and focus reference during the year to ensure it remained compliant with on a review of financial risks and two meetings focus on nonthe principles of the Code.
financial risks to ensure that we have a balanced approach.
Attendance of these meetings is shown on page 34.
The Committee also met with external auditors without management present.
Activities The Committee plans its activities around key financial dates of the Company.
During the year the Committee reviewed the Financial statements for the 2009 Annual Report and the 2010 interim report.
The review included an assessment of the going concern statement and an impairment review.
The Committee continuously reviews the effectiveness of the audit partner and auditors throughout the year and carries out a formal review of their effectiveness annually.
In line with best practice, the  audit partner changed in April 2010 after the announcement of the Groups 2009 full year results as he had been with the Company for five years.
A managed handover took place during the first half of 2010 and was completed by May 2010.
The Committee reviewed the skills and experience of the new audit partner and were satisfied www.
com 39 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance report continued Corporate governance report continued The Committee also reviewed its membership and terms of Remuneration Committee report reference during the year to ensure it remained compliant with the principles of the Code.
Chairmans remuneration The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Remuneration Committee, taking advice from the remuneration consultants on best practice and competitive levels taking into Nigel Northridge account responsibilities and time commitment.
Life assurance Chairman is provided under the Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme but the appointment is not pensionable, nor is the Chairman eligible for pension scheme membership or participation in the Responsibilities Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to: The fees paid to the Chairman are shown on page 46. t Set the Remuneration Policy: Non-Executive Directors remuneration t Review share based incentive schemes: The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors consists of fees for services in connection with Board and Committee t Set annual bonus targets: and meetings.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are determined by t Set share performance targets.
the Board, within the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed annually, The full terms of reference can be found at taking advice from the remuneration consultants on best www.
com about us governance practice and competitive levels.
The levels of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors reect the time commitment and The Remuneration Committee consists of five Non-Executive responsibilities of the role.
The Non-Executive Directors are not Directors.
Michael Wemms was the Chairman of the involved in deciding their fees.
Nigel Northridge was Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme appointed as Chairman with effect from 1 January 2011.
Michael Wemms remains a member of the Committee.
membership or participation in the Companys bonus, share option or other incentive schemes.
No one other than the Remuneration Committee Chairman and its members are entitled to attend meetings.
However the Group The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are shown on page 46.
Chief Executive and Group HR Director advise the Remuneration External appointments Committee internally and attend meetings upon invitation.
The Company recognises that its Executive Directors may be Kepler Associates, as external consultants, also attend meetings invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies upon invitation.
No Director or Executive is involved in deciding and that this additional experience is likely to benefit the his or her own remuneration.
The Executive Directors are generally permitted to take one Non-Executive Directorship as long as it does not lead The Committee met three times during 2010 and attendance of to conicts of interest or undue time commitment.
Andr Lacroix these meetings is shown on the table on page 34. holds two such positions as Non-Executive Director for Reckitt Kepler Associates was appointed as remuneration advisors Benckiser for which he earned a fee of 85,000 and as Nonduring 2010.
Kepler ensures that the Committee receives Executive Chairman of Good Restaurants AG for which he does independent advice and their terms of reference can be found not receive a fee.
on the Company website at www.
Kepler Associates has no other connection with the Company other than as remuneration advisors.
Activities During the year, the Committee reviewed the remuneration policy to ensure that it remains relevant and competitive.
It was agreed in 2009 that a review of the existing policy was needed to ensure that the Company remains able to attract, retain and motivate talented employees to deliver on the Company strategy and to remain consistent with best practice.
The Committee has worked closely with its remuneration advisors, Kepler Associates, to develop a new policy.
As stated in the 2009 Annual Report, the Committee carried out a consultation with its major shareholders in respect of the remuneration policy in order to seek their views and to discuss any questions they may have.
Further details can be found in the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 41 to 45.
The Committee also approved the bonus structure for 2010 and the award levels and performance targets for the share option plan.
Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors can be found in the tables on pages 46 to 48.
40 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
