Governance Corporate Governance Statement The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders r approving appointments to, and removals from, for its standards of governance and is therefore committed the Board and of the Company Secretary: to the principles of corporate governance contained in r approving policies relating to Directors remuneration: the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and that was issued in 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council.
It is in the Boards view that the Company has been fully r reviewing the dividend policy and determining the compliant with all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 amounts of dividends.
of the code throughout the year ended 31 December2010.
Together this report and the Directors Remuneration The Board has delegated the following activities to the Report on pages 38 to 47, explain how the Company has Executive Directors: applied the principles and supporting principles of Good Governance set out in the Code.
r the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the As a Company listed on the London Stock Exchange, longer-term objectives and priorities established by Informa is subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial the Board: Services Authority and complies with the provisions of the Combined Code and relevant institutional r implementation of the strategies and policies of the shareholder guidelines.
Group as determined by the Board: As Informa is incorporated in Jersey, it is not subject r monitoring of the operating and financial results to the UK Companies Act.
However, the Board considers against plans and budgets: it appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which r monitoring the performance of acquisitions and are similar to those that apply to a UK registered Company investments against plans and objectives: and are consistent with the relevant provisions of the UK Companies Act.
r prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources: and The Board Informa plc is the ultimate holding Company of the r developing and implementing risk management systems.
Informa Group of companies the Group or Informa and is controlled by its Board of Directors.
The Board The Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive members are set out on pages 20 to 21.
The Boards main and Senior Independent Director roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Board, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the Director comply with the guidance from the UK Institute of necessary financial and human resources are made Chartered Secretaries and Administrators ICSA and as such available to enable those objectives to be met.
These are set out in writing and have been approved by the Board.
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
The Derek Mapp has been Non-Executive Chairman since specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: 17 March 2008 and as Chairman, he leads the Board and is responsible for setting its agenda and ensuring its r approving the Groups long-term objectives and effectiveness.
He is also responsible for ensuring that commercial strategy: Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
He r approving the Groups annual operating and capital promotes a culture of openness and debate to facilitate expenditure budgets: the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and r reviewing operational and financial performance: constructive relations between the Executive and NonExecutive Directors.
He also acts on the results of the Board r approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital performance evaluation by leading on the implementation projects: of any required changes to the Board and its Committees including recognising the strengths and addressing the r reviewing the Groups systems of internal control weaknesses of the Board, and, where appropriate, proposes and risk management: new members be appointed to the Board or seeking the resignation of Directors.
The Chairman holds periodic r reviewing the environmental, health and safety meetings with Non-Executive Directors without the policies of the Group: Executives present.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 31 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 33 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Peter Rigby was re-appointed as Chief Executive on executives.
On appointment the Directors are also advised 17March 2008 and has the responsibility of running the of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director Company.
As Chief Executive, he has direct charge of the of a listed Company.
Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board Throughout their period in office, the Directors are regularly for its operational and financial performance.
He is also updated on the Groups business and the environment in primarily responsible for implementation of the Companys which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with strategy including ensuring the achievement of the Groups senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at budgets and optimising the Groups resources.
He also has Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, any changes to the legal and governance requirements of identifying and executing new business opportunities and the Group and those which affect themselves as Directors for management development and remuneration.
and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to Dr Pamela Kirby was appointed as Senior Independent ensure they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation Director on 17 March 2008 and is available to meet and changing commercial risks.
shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee existing mechanisms for investor communication.
These papers are supplemented by any as a sounding Board for the Chairman and, if and when information specifically requested by the Directors from appropriate, serves as an intermediary for the other Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly Directors and Directors Independence management reports from the Chief Executive and the As at 31 December 2010 the Board comprised five Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom is the and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Chairman, and two Executive Directors all of whom, except Performance Evaluation of the Board and its Committees Stephen Carter, have served throughout the 2010 financial The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by year.
Stephen Carter was appointed by the Board as a fifth the Chairman, for the annual internal evaluation of the Non-Executive Director on 11 May 2010. performance of the Board, its principal committees and The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors individual Directors.
On appointment the Directors are who constructively challenge and help develop proposals made aware that their performance will be subject to on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, evaluation.
The Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Independent Director meet at least annually to appraise the The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and Chairmans performance.
number that their views carry significant weight in the In respect of the 2010 financial year the Board Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of commissioned Alvarez and Marsal and Hanson Green its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character to carry out an external evaluation of the corporate and judgement.
In particular none of them has any personal governance of Informa plc, including an evaluation of or business relationships which give rise to any conflict or its Chairman.
A comprehensive process has been carried potential conflict and each freely contributes to Board and out which has included a review of Board and committee committee discussions and decision making.
papers and agendas, and interviews with all Directors, the There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to Company Secretary and a selection of senior managers, obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups shareholders and the Companys stockbrokers.
It has also expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order included observations of Board and committee meetings to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors contracts and several planning and informational meetings with the are available for inspection at the registered office and Chairman and Company Secretary.
The review resulted in principal office during normal business hours and will be a detailed analysis of the operation and effectiveness of available for inspection at the AGM.
both the Board and its committees and of compliance with the Combined Code and the new UK corporate governance Information and Professional Development code.
The feedback was provided both orally and in a On appointment the Directors receive relevant information written report.
The conclusions provided a very positive about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters report on the Companys governance and provided some reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and suggestions for improvement.
These are being considered by membership of the principal Board Committees and the the Board as part of its decision making for 2011. powers delegated to those Committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and the Re-election latest financial information about the Group.
This is The Companys Articles of Association provide for all supplemented by introductory meetings with key senior Directors to be subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
32 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 34 21 03 2011 17:33 The Board is satisfied, following independent formal Groups products and services.
The Group adopts an evaluation, that each Director continues to be effective extensive budgeting process in forecasting its trading and to demonstrate commitment to their role.
results and cash flows and updates these forecasts to reflect current trading on a regular basis.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the The Groups net debt and banking covenants are discussed Board through the Chairman on all governance matters in the Financial Review on pages 15 to 19 and the exposure and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
to liquidity risk is discussed in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Relations with Shareholders The Company is committed to maintaining good The Group sensitises its projections to reflect reasonably communications with investors.
Each of Derek Mapp as possible changes in trading performance and cash Chairman and Dr Pamela Kirby as Senior Independent conversions, taking into account its substantial deferred Director provides the Board with feedback on any issues revenues 309.8m at 31 December 2010.
These forecasts raised with them by shareholders.
and projections for the period up to 30 June 2012, show that the Group is expected to be able to operate within the level The Executive Directors have frequent discussions of its current facility and meet its covenant requirements with institutional shareholders on a range of issues, for a period of one year from the date of the signing including governance and strategy, affecting the Groups of the Groups financial statements for the year ended performance.
Meetings are also held with the Groups 31December 2010. largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the announcement of the Groups interim After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable and annual results and on other occasions.
In addition, expectation that there are no material uncertainties that the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for may cast significant doubt about the Companys ability to discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following continue as a going concern.
Accordingly, they continue meetings held with shareholders after the interim and to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual annual results announcements, the Board is provided with report and financial statements.
feedback from the Executive Directors, the Groups brokers Procedures to Deal with Directors Conflicts of Interest and its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
The Companys Articles, which were adopted by The Companys brokers reports on the Group are also shareholders on 2 June 2009, include provisions covering circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of Directors conflicts of interest.
significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
The Articles allow the Board to authorise any matter that The AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to avoid and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during conflicts of interest.
The Company has procedures in place the meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after to deal with a situation where a Director has a conflict of the meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
As part of this process, the Board will endeavour to: number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate r consider each conflict situation separately on its resolution is proposed for each item.
particular facts: The Groups corporate website at www.
com provides r consider the conflict situation in conjunction with the a wide range of information about the Group which is of Companys Articles: interest to both institutional and private investors.
This includes all announcements made by the Company to the r keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations FSA as well as video recordings of the interim and annual granted by Directors and the scope of any approvals presentations made to analysts, and details of the Groups given: and business and sectors in which it operates.
Going Concern Basis The Groups business activities, together with the factors Internal Control and Risk Management likely to affect its future development, performance and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal position are set out in the Chairmans Statement and control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system Chief Executives Review on pages 10 to 14. is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide As set out on pages 26 to 30 a number of risk factors reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material and uncertainties affect the Groups results and financial misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance position.
In particular the current economic climate recognises that the cost of control procedures should not creates uncertainties over the level of demand for the exceed the expected benefits.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 33 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 35 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee considered evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the the following reporting: Group.
This process was in place throughout the year under r The Risk Committee reports on the effectiveness of risk review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report management, governance and compliance activity and Financial Statements, and is in accordance with the within Informa.
This Committee comprises the Chief Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Executive, a cross section of senior officers and Directors on the Combined Code.
managers of the Group and is chaired by the Finance The key features of Informas system of internal control Director.
The Risk Committee supports the Board in its and risk management systems in relation to the financial consideration of current and forward-looking material reporting process include: business risk exposures.
r #VTJOFTT QMBOOJOH m all business units produce and r The external auditors present their proposed annual agree an annual business plan against which the audit plan for approval by the Audit Committee and performance of the business is regularly monitored.
report on any issues identified in the course of their work, including internal control reports on control r 'JOBODJBM BOBMZTJT m each business units operating weaknesses, which were provided to the Audit profitability and capital expenditure are closely Committee as well as executive management.
Management incentives are tied to financial results.
These results include explanations r Internal Audit present their proposed annual audit plan for of variances between forecast, actual and budgeted approval by the Audit Committee and reports on reviews performance, and are reviewed in detail by Executive and tests of key business processes and control activities, management on a monthly basis.
Key financial including following up the implementation of management information is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
action plans to address any identified control weaknesses and reporting any overdue actions to the Audit Committee.
"r SPVQ ""VUIPSJUZ 'SBNFXPSL m the framework provides clear guidelines for all business units In order to ensure the quality of the Internal Audit function of the approval limits for capital and operating and provide assurance that the Internal Audit function expenditure, and other key business decisions."
complies with the Standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors, during 2010 the Audit Committee appointed r 3JTL BTTFTTNFOU m a risk assessment is embedded into RSM Tenon to conduct an independent External Quality the operations of the Group as part of each business Assurance review of the Internal Audit function, which is units annual plan submitted to Executive management further described below.
The remit, approach and delivery and the Board for approval.
Each business unit of the Internal Audit function were found to be satisfactory, considers the significant risks to its business and to the and the function was found to comply with the International achievement of the proposed plan.
In doing so, each Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
unit considers risk in terms of probability of occurrence and potential impact on performance, and mitigating The Board confirms that no significant failings or actions, control effectiveness and management weaknesses have been identified from the reviews responsibility are identified to address these risks.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Board Meetings and Committees system of internal controls, including financial, operational No unscheduled meetings were held during the year.
and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups The number of scheduled Board meetings and Committee high-level internal control arrangements.
In performing its meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year are set out below.
Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee meetings of 7 meetings of 4 meetings of 4 meetings of 1 Derek Mapp 7 1 Peter Rigby 7 1 Adam Walker 7 Pamela Kirby1 7 4 1 John Davis 7 4 4 1 Brendan ONeill 7 4 4 Stephen Carter2 5 2 1 Dr Pamela Kirby stood down from the Audit Committee on 11 May 2010.
2 Stephen Carter was appointed a Director on 11 May 2010.
He joined the Audit Committee on the same date.
34 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 36 21 03 2011 17:33 Remuneration Committee The membership of the Remuneration Committee during Nomination Committee 2010 is set out below left.
The Chairman also usually attends meetings by invitation.
The Committees terms of reference Chairman were reviewed and amended in February 2011 and are Derek Mapp available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: Other members Dr Pamela Kirby r set, review and recommend to the Board for approval John Davis the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: Secretary John Burton r set, review and approve the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors including terms Objective and conditions of employment and any changes to To ensure there is a formal, rigorous and transparent the packages: and procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board and its Committees.
r approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
Nomination Committee The membership of the Nomination Committee during 2010 is set out above.
The Chief Executive also usually Audit Committee attends meetings by invitation.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and amended in February 2011 and Chairman are available on the Companys website.
The composition of Dr Brendan ONeill the Committee is set out above.
The Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and experience that the Board Other members requires and seeks the appointment of Directors who meet John Davis those requirements to ensure that the Board is eff ective in Stephen Carter appointed 11 May 2010 discharging its responsibilities.
Dr Pamela Kirby stepped down from the Committee The Nomination Committee met once during 2010 to on 11 May 2010 discuss the appointment of Stephen Carter as NonExecutive Director.
For the purpose of this appointment, Secretary the process including use of an external search fi rm and John Burton selection criteria were set by the Board as a whole.
Objective To be responsible for corporate reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and for maintaining Remuneration Committee the relationship with the Companys auditors.
Chair Dr Pamela Kirby Audit Committee The membership of the Audit Committee during 2010 Other members is set out above.
Dr Brendan ONeill John Davis The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and amended in February 2011 and are available on the Secretary Companys website.
The Committees terms of reference John Burton allow it to obtain independent external advice at the Objective Companys expense.
No such advice was obtained during To set, review and recommend for approval the 2010.
The Audit Committee has at least one member remuneration policy and strategy, and individual possessing recent and relevant experience, as described remuneration packages of the Executive Directors in the Smith Report appended to the Code.
Its Chairman, and to approve the introduction and rules of Dr Brendan ONeill, has extensive experience of audit all Group share-based incentive schemes.
committee procedures, and John Davis is a qualifi ed chartered accountant and until November 2010 was the Chief Financial Offi cer of Yell Group plc.
The meetings of the Committee operate so as to investigate the key Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 35 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 37 21 03 2011 17:33 Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued accounting, audit and risk issues that are relevant to the r recommending to the full Board, which adopted the Group.
The mixture of experience of its members assist in recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte LLP providing a challenging environment in which these issues as the Groups external auditors: are debated.
The Finance Director, Deputy Finance Director, r reviewing and approving the audit fee and Head of Internal Audit, Chief Operating Officer and Head of reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Tax attend all or part of its proceedings in order to provide Groups external auditors: information to, and be questioned by, the Committee.
The composition of the Committee was reviewed during r reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the year and the Board and Committee are satisfied that it the Groups financial statements, which included key has the expertise and resource to fulfill its responsibilities areas of scope of work: key risks on the financial effectively including those relating to risk and control.
statements: confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups of engagement for the audit: financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible r reviewing the Groups system of controls and its for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process effectiveness.
In particular: it approves the annual and making recommendations to the Board in relation to internal audit plan and biannually it reviews the work the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of done by Internal Audit and actions which follow from the external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an the work: appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services r reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage and fees.
The Committee also, in accordance with Turnbull risks including regular consultation with the Head of Guidance, reviews annually, and has done so during the year Internal Audit and in particular the operation of the and up to the date of this report, the Groups system of internal Groups risk committee : and controls and the process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
It reviews r reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function which and performance of significant recent acquisitions includes business risk management and is responsible for compared to plans.
approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate These responsibilities are principally carried out through the arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise Risk Committee whose activities are overseen by the Chairman matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable of the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive The Audit Committee also undertakes a thorough performance Directors and management, as well as privately with both evaluation which is led by the Chairman of the Committee.
the external and internal auditors.
The Committee has during the year to 31 December 2010 received sufficient, External Auditors reliable and timely information from the Senior Managers The Audit Committee is also responsible for the development, to enable it to fulfil its duties.
implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for In 2010 the Committee has fulfilled its duties under monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with its terms of reference during the year and discharged ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, its responsibilities primarily by: and day to day responsibility to the Finance Director.
It states r reviewing the Groups draft preliminary and interim that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the Board results statements prior to Board approval and and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the reviewing the external auditors detailed reports primary contact.
The policy also sets out the categories of nonthereon.
In particular reviewing the opinions of audit services which the external auditors will and will not be management and the auditors in relation to the allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
carrying values of the Groups assets and any To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the contingent liabilities: external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: r reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups r the external auditors plan for the current year, accounting policies: noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner, r reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial who signs the audit report and who, in accordance statements of matters such as the adoption of with professional rules, has not held office for more International Financial Reporting Standards: than five years, and any changes in the key audit staff: 36 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 38 21 03 2011 17:33 r the arrangements for day-to-day management Corporate Responsibility of the audit relationship: During 2010, Keith Brownlie was the senior executive with day-to-day responsibility for Corporate Responsibility CR r a report from the external auditors describing their direction and development.
Keith is retiring in early 2011, arrangements to identify, report and manage any with responsibility for CR being passed to Emma Blaney, conflicts of interest: and Director of HR.
The Groups CR priorities and strategy are formulated and led by a CR committee which reports into r the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the Board.
Meetings are minuted and communicated to the external auditors, in addition to its case-by-case other senior level committees when appropriate.
approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
CR priorities have been decided upon using a diverse range of stakeholder insights including: To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: r in-house expertise from colleagues: r the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors r regular presentations from external parties at Group independence and objectivity: CR Committee meetings: r the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit r institutional investor feedback and insights: plan and any variations from the plan: r staff communications: r the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit r feedback and questions from the Groups customers: judgements: and r dialogue with Trade Unions and Non-governmental r the content of the external auditors reporting on Organisations NGOs : internal control.
r the Groups membership of networks such as the Following the above, the Audit Committee has MediaCSRForum: and recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP is rer advice from our retained CR advisers.
Deloitte LLP has been the Groups external auditors since 2004.
The Audit Committee considers that The Group CR Strategy has five key pillars: the relationship with the external auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
The external 1. providing a rewarding, fair and inspiring workplace auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible for staff: for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years and the current lead audit partner has been in place since 2009.
2. ensuring product integrity and quality: There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditor.
3. managing environmental impacts: The Company has in place a policy for the provision of 4. maintaining and improving customer service levels: non-audit services by the external auditors.
This policy and provides that the firms services may only be provided where 5. giving back to the communities in which it operates.
1 auditor objectivity and independence may be securely safeguarded and 2 where the fees payable either in respect Further information can be found on each of the above of the assigned work or overall in any year do not exceed the in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 48 to 49. amount of fees payable in respect of its audit work.
During 2010 an External Quality Assurance review of the Groups Internal Audit function was carried out.
The purpose Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by of the review was to provide an independent perspective on the functions conformance with the Definition of Internal John Burton Auditing and the International Standards for the Professional Company Secretary Practice of Internal Auditing as well as an evaluation of the application of the applicable Code Ethics.
The conclusion 22 February 2011 was that the remit, approach and delivery of the internal audit function are found to be satisfactory.
While some areas of process improvement were identified, the related recommendations set out in the report are not deemed to be significant, and were designed further to enhance the current internal audit processes and procedures.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 37 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
