42 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued a revised UK In addition, the Audit Committee reviews: Corporate Governance Code the new UK Code, building on the regular reports from management, Global Internal Audit and the contents of the familiar Combined Code on Corporate Governance external auditor on the effectiveness of systems for internal the Combined Code.
The new UK Code applies to financial years control, financial reporting and risk management: beginning on or after 29 June 2010. the timeliness and effectiveness of corrective action taken by IHG takes its corporate governance responsibilities very seriously management: and and aims to implement and uphold robust and responsible business material financial and non-financial risks.
processes and policies throughout the Group.
The Board has The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the therefore already fully reviewed the overall objectives and contents system of risk management and internal control during the year of the new UK Code, anticipates implementing a number of ended 31 December 2010.
This covered all material controls, improved practices arising from its recommendations and will including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk report on the Groups compliance with the new UK Code as part management systems, and took into account any material of its 2011 Corporate Governance statement.
developments since the year end.
In this section of the Annual Report, we continue formally to report The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out our compliance against the provisions of the Combined Code, above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system of applicable for our 2010 financial year.
However, we also aim to risk management and internal control is designed to manage, describe IHGs evolving approach towards governance, control, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business risk management and compliance, recognising the changes objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide expected ahead.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Combined Code compliance misstatement or loss.
Whilst areas for improvement have been identified and actions initiated as a result of the above process, The Board considers that the Company has complied with all the no significant shortcomings have been identified from the annual provisions of the Combined Code, available at www.
throughout the year ended 31 December 2010.
As IHGs shares are also listed on the New York Stock Exchange Control environment NYSE, the Company is subject to the rules of the NYSE, US The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
To comply with our US obligations, arising from to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, the key financial controls across all procedures necessary to apply the Combined Code, including clear our business units have been identified and evaluated.
This has operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authorities.
enabled appropriate representations regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls to be made in the Companys Annual The Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Operating Report on Form 20-F.
Committees have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: With regard to insurance against risk, whilst the insurance market has again softened in some areas, certain risks remain difficult to strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series of insure both as to breadth and cost of coverage.
In some cases Group and regional strategic reviews: external insurance is not available at all or not at an economic financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning price.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of and accounting framework: external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the availability of capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and such cover, its price and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks authorisation processes: and involved.
Our approach to risk management, key risk mitigating risk management through an ongoing process, which has been activities and the principal risk factors that could affect the Group in place up to the date of the accounts.
This provides assurance are set out in the Business Review on pages 31 to 36. through reports from the Head of Risk Management, the Head of Global Internal Audit, and, as appropriate, from management, that the significant risks faced by the Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Corporate governance 43 Directors of the Company during 2010 were: Board and Committee structure To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board Date of original and Committee structure operates as set out below.
1 Position appointment David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
03 The Board Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive 3.2.
05 The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, James Abrahamson President, The Americas 1.8.
10 four Executive and six Non-Executive Directors meets the Kirk Kinsell President, Europe, requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, Middle East and Africa 1.8.
10 excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Solomons Chief Financial Officer In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors are and Head of Commercial independent.
The Chairman was independent on his original Development 10.2.
Collectively, the Board has an appropriate David Kappler Non-Executive Director and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable Senior Independent Director 21.6.
04 it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The roles Graham Allan Non-Executive Director 1.1.
10 of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive are separate and have Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
05 The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 direction, development, performance and control of the Group.
Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 1.12.07 It therefore approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the 1 The capital reorganisation of the Group, effective on 27 June 2005, entailed the insertion of a new parent company of the Group.
All Directors serving at that performance of past investments and maintains an overview time signed new letters of appointment effective from that date.
The dates and control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
shown above represent the original dates of appointment of each of the Directors to the Groups parent company.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, risk management, governance and compliance and considers regulatory changes and developments in advance, to ensure that Current Directors biographical details are set out on page 38 of this IHG is well-positioned to maintain the Groups trusted reputation in Annual Report.
These include their main external commitments.
The Board also ensures that the necessary financial On appointment, Non-Executive Directors participate in induction and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
programmes designed to meet their individual needs and to The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal activities refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and of the Group and with central and regional management.
regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas.
It is the Comprehensive induction programmes are also put in place for any Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the Executive Director who may join the Group and tailored induction is required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a provided for newly appointed Executive Directors from within the structured way.
Group, focusing on their responsibilities as Board Directors.
Such The schedule of matters which are reserved for the Boards programmes were implemented for James Abrahamson and attention and decision may be found on the Companys website Kirk Kinsell on their appointments in August 2010.
com investors under corporate governance main programmes accord with best practice guidelines.
The updating of all Directors skills and knowledge and understanding of the Groups operations is a progressive exercise.
This is accomplished at Board and strategy meetings, through business presentations and visits to hotels and other premises in the regions, and through contact with employees.
Going forward, it is intended that the Chairman will regularly review and agree training and development needs with each Director.
Eight regular Board meetings are scheduled each year, including a two-day meeting which considers the Groups strategy.
Further meetings are held as needed.
All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in advance of and by presentations at these meetings.
During 2010, eight Board meetings were held.
These were attended by all Directors.
Should any Director be unable to attend a meeting, he or she would be provided with all the papers and information relevant to that meeting and be able to discuss matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
44 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued The Companys Articles of Association allow the Directors to Chairman authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest, where David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
The Board has conflicts of interest as a standing He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited, agenda item at each meeting and during 2010 asked each of the a member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers Directors to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts by returning and Mergers, and a Director of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC.
a questionnaire to the Company Secretary.
The Board considered In May 2010 he was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Amadeus all the responses to the questionnaire and approved potential IT Holding SA.
conflicts as it deemed appropriate.
The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring the efficient Performance evaluations of the Board, its main Committees and operation of the Board and its Committees, for overseeing the Directors were undertaken for 2010.
An independent external corporate governance matters and ensuring they are addressed, facilitator assists in the performance evaluation in alternate years.
for representing the Group externally and communicating This facilitator has no other connection with IHG.
Working closely with the Chief evaluation was conducted internally by the Company Secretary.
Executive and the Company Secretary, he also ensures that The 2010 Board evaluations, including those of the Committees, the Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction to the Group Chairman and all Directors, involved completion of comprehensive and its business and that all Directors are fully informed of relevant questionnaires and the Chairman having discussions with each matters.
The Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Director individually.
Directors, without Executive Directors present.
The Board questionnaire covered its role and organisation, agenda, Chief Executive information flow, monitoring of Group performance, leadership Andrew Cosslett was Chief Executive throughout the year.
He has and culture and focus on priority tasks, including strategy and responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement the corporate governance.
He is responsible for the executive The Board received feedback through a presentation at a meeting management of the Group.
He is a member of the Executive of the full Board, and the findings were discussed.
It was concluded Committee of the World Travel & Tourism Council and a member that the Board was operating effectively and areas where more of the Presidents Committee of the CBI.
Neither of these positions emphasis could be considered were identified.
The work and effectiveness during the year of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility Senior Independent Director Committees and their respective Chairmen were also evaluated.
David Kappler was Senior Independent Director throughout the These reviews concluded that each Committee was operating in year.
His responsibilities include being available to liaise with an effective manner.
shareholders who have issues to raise and leading the With regard to the performance of individual Directors, attention performance evaluation of the Chairman.
was focused on levels of skill, experience, attendance and Non-Executive Directors contribution, ability to listen and to address key issues.
As part of A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors the evaluation process, the Chairman held meetings with each represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
There are Director and it was concluded that they continue to make an currently six such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive effective contribution to the work of the Board.
All Directors are Chairman, each of whom has significant external commercial well prepared and informed concerning items to be considered by experience.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, the Board, have a good understanding of the Groups business and meet during the year to consider the Groups business and retain a strong commitment to their roles.
During the year, the Non-Executive Directors met together without Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing the Chairman present, under the chairmanship of the Senior professional development during the year and of gaining further Independent Director, to appraise the Chairmans performance.
insight into the Groups business.
In addition, the training All the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, met to requirements of the Non-Executive Directors are kept under review.
appraise the Chief Executives performance.
In accordance with the recommendations of the new UK Code it Company Secretary is the Chairmans intention to report next year how the principles All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have applied Secretary.
His responsibilities include ensuring good information during 2011. flows to the Board and its Committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
He facilitates the induction of Directors, the regular updating and refreshing of their skills and knowledge and he assists them in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, he is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance and generally for keeping the Board up to date on all legal, regulatory and other developments.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
THE BOARD, SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Corporate governance 45 Committees Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which are approved by the Board and which are subject to review every year.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler who has significant recent and relevant financial experience and is the Committees financial expert.
During 2010 the other Committee members were Graham Allan, Ralph Kugler and Jennifer Laing.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least four times a year.
The Committee met five times in 2010.
The Audit Committees role is described on page 47.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Ralph Kugler, also comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: David Kappler, Jonathan Linen and Ying Yeh.
It meets at least four times a year.
The Committee met five times during 2010.
The Remuneration Committees role is described on page 49.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Board and all the Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board except when matters relating to this position are to be discussed, in which case it is chaired by an independent Non-Executive Director.
It meets at least twice a year and additional meetings are held as necessary.
The Committee met eight times during 2010.
The Committee leads the process for Board appointments and nominates candidates for approval by the Board.
The balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Board members is evaluated in order to define the requirements for a particular appointment.
The Committee generally engages external consultants to advise on candidates for Board appointments and appointments are made on merit, against objective criteria, including ability to commit time, and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Committee also has responsibility for succession planning and assists in identifying and developing the role of the Senior Independent Director.
During 2010 the Committee discussed succession planning for both the Executive Committee and the Board, considered and recommended new Executive Director appointments, which have now been implemented, and considered the appointment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired by Jennifer Laing, was established in February 2009.
The other Committee member during 2010 was Ralph Kugler.
Graham Allan joined the Committee in January 2011.
Meetings are regularly attended by other members of the Board and Executive Committee.
The Committee is scheduled to meet at least twice a year and met three times in 2010.
The Corporate Responsibility Committees role is described on page 28.
A summary of each Directors attendance at the Board and its principal Committee meetings during 2010 is provided in the table below: Corporate Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Board Committee Committee Committee Committee David Webster Chairman 8 n a n a 8 n a Andrew Cosslett Executive Director 8 n a n a n a n a James Abrahamson Executive Director 4 n a n a n a n a Kirk Kinsell Executive Director 4 n a n a n a n a Richard Solomons Executive Director 8 n a n a n a n a Graham Allan Non-Executive Director 8 5 n a 8 n a David Kappler Non-Executive Director 8 5 5 8 n a Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 8 5 5 7 2 Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 8 5 n a 8 3 Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 8 n a 4 8 n a Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director 8 n a 5 8 n a Total meetings held 8 5 5 8 3 Appointed a Director on 1 August 2010: attended all Board meetings from this date onwards.
Unable to attend one meeting due to overseas travel commitment.
Unable to attend one meeting due to family bereavement.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It consists of the Executive Directors and the most senior executives from the Group and usually meets monthly.
Its role is to consider and manage a range of important strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It is responsible for monitoring the performance of the business.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and recommends to the Board the most significant investment proposals.
46 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate governance continued Disclosure Committee Shareholder relations The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the Groups Financial The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary and other senior half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive executives, reports to the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Financial Officer give presentations on these results and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in information required to be disclosed in reports pursuant to UK facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, fairly presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone represents the Groups position in all material respects.
conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
The data used in these presentations and conferences may be General Purposes Committee found at www.
com investors under financial library.
The General Purposes Committee comprises any one Executive IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with its Committee member together with a senior officer from an agreed and major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by an Executive discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the Committee member.
It attends to business of a routine nature and business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, the to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors are agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
available to meet with major shareholders to understand their issues Appointment, removal and re-election of Directors and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Facilitated, structured meetings are encouraged and any new Director is The rules governing the appointment and removal of Directors are available for meetings with major shareholders as a matter of course.
set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
New Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the Meeting following appointment, and the office of a Director shall Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the be vacated in the circumstances defined in Article 85 of the Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations activities.
Articles of Association, eg prohibition by law, bankruptcy, absence Additionally, the Annual General Meeting AGM provides a useful without leave.
interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also The Companys Articles of Association provide that those Directors customers.
IHG facilitates both postal and electronic voting and all who have not been subject to election by shareholders within the resolutions are voted on by way of a poll.
This ensures that all votes last three years, must retire and stand for re-election at the next are counted on the basis of one vote for every share held.
At the AGM Annual General Meeting.
itself shareholders receive presentations on the Companys performance and may ask questions of the Board, including the The new UK Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 Chairman and Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
All votes companies submit themselves for election or re-election as cast in respect of each resolution at the AGM are published on the appropriate by shareholders every year.
Although IHG is not Companys website immediately after the Meeting.
A comprehensive obliged to follow this recommendation until its Annual General range of information about the Group is maintained and available to Meeting in 2012, the Board has decided to submit the appointment shareholders through the Companys website.
of all its Directors for shareholder approval in 2011.
Therefore, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for election or re-election Information on share capital and substantial shareholdings in the at the next Annual General Meeting.
Company is set out on page 40 of the Directors Report.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders at the Further information same time as this Report, provides further information about the The terms of reference of all of the Committees of the Board were Directors standing for election and re-election.
Information on reviewed during the year against the latest best practice guidance.
Executive Directors service contracts is set out on page 55.
The A number of amendments were made to update the Audit, Non-Executive Chairman and the six independent Non-Executive Remuneration and Nomination Committees terms of reference, Directors have letters of appointment.
All Directors service which are available on the Companys website contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection www.
com investors under corporate governance committees by shareholders in accordance with relevant legislation.
or from the Company Secretarys office on request.
Independent advice The Articles of Association of the Company are available on There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board the Companys website www.
com investors under may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of corporate governance.
their duties and they have access to the advice and services of As required by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences the Company Secretary, the Companys external legal advisers between the Companys corporate governance practices and and the external auditors.
those followed by US companies may be found on the Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate governance NYSE differences.
George Turner Company Secretary 14 February 2011
