84 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report We are committed to high standards of corporate governance and in this report set out how we comply with the principles in the Combined Code and explain our reasons for any areas of non-compliance during 2010.
Left Blackstone Massachusetts Right Shuweihat S1 UAE Following the completion of the appointment as Chairman.
Tony Isaac has The full Board met ten times during 2010.
Combination, the GDF SUEZ Group holds served on the Board for over nine years.
Attendance by Directors at these approximately 70% of the issued share However, the Board has determined that meetings, and the Board Committee capital of the Company.
GDF SUEZ has Tony is still independent in character and meetings held during the year, are detailed taken up its right to appoint four directors in judgement of the Company and this is in the adjacent table.
including the Chairman to the Board.
demonstrated by his contribution to Board In addition to the Board and Committee The report contains information on Board meetings and his other interests outside meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and structure and Committees for 2010. the Group.
Therefore all five Non-Executive the Non-Executive Directors was held Directors were considered to be without the Executive Directors being independent.
Tony Isaac was the Senior The Board present.
The Non-Executive Directors also Independent Director.
There were no met without the Chairman being present.
The Board believes that it has the skills and changes to the Board during 2010.
This meeting was chaired by Tony Isaac, experience necessary to provide effective During 2010 the structure of the Board was the Senior Independent Director, and leadership and control of the Company.
not in strict compliance with the Combined included a review of the Chairmans At the end of 2010 the Board comprised Code in that the number of Non-Executive performance.
the Chairman Sir Neville Simms, six Directors was less than the number Combined Code www.
uk corporate Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark of Executive Directors.
cfm Williamson, Tony Concannon, Bruce Levy, Directors considered that the Board Steve Riley and Ranald Spiers and five worked effectively and that the NonNon-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, Alan Executive Directors have a sufficiently Murray, John Roberts, Struan Robertson strong and independent presence at and David Weston.
Sir Neville Simms was Board meetings to provide an effective considered independent on his counterbalance to the Executive Directors.
GovernanCe 85 Board Audit Remuneration Appointments HS&E ten Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings three seven one two meetings meetings meeting meetings Sir Neville Simms 10 n a 7 1 Philip Cox 10 n a n a n a 2 Tony Concannon 10 n a n a n a 1 Tony Isaac 10 2 7 1 2 Bruce Levy 9 n a n a n a Alan Murray 10 3 7 1 Steve Riley 10 n a n a n a 1 John Roberts 10 3 7 1 Struan Robertson 10 3 7 1 2 Ranald Spiers 10 n a n a n a 1 3 David Weston 9 3 7 1 Mark Williamson 10 n a n a n a Notes: 1 Tony Isaac missed one Audit Committee meeting during 2010 due to illness.
He passed comments on each of the relevant papers to the Chairman prior to the meeting.
2 B ruce Levy missed one Board meeting during 2010 due to travel disruption.
3 D avid Weston missed one Board meeting during 2010 due to a pre-existing business commitment.
Following the completion of the Combination the Board has the following members: Dirk Beeuwsaert Non-Executive Chairman GDF SUEZ Appointed Director Sir Neville Simms Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Bernard Attali Independent Non-Executive Director Tony Isaac Independent Non-Executive Director David Weston Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Rob Young Independent Non-Executive Director Michael Zaoui Independent Non-Executive Director Grard Mestrallet GDF SUEZ Appointed Director Jean-Franois Cirelli GDF SUEZ Appointed Director Grard Lamarche GDF SUEZ Appointed Director Philip Cox Executive Director CEO Mark Williamson Executive Director CFO Guy Richelle Executive Director COO Biographic details of the new Directors are set out on pages 59 to 60 character and judgement and has Board membership concluded that it wishes them to continue In accordance with best practice all of in their role beyond the 2011 Annual the Directors will submit themselves for General Meeting AGM.
In addition, re-election every year.
considering the changed nature of the Board, the significantly increased size The Board has reviewed the independence of the business and the new majority of Tony Isaac and Sir Neville Simms who shareholder base, the Board regards have both served on the Board for more these as effectively new appointments.
The Board considers them This was demonstrated by the need for both to be effective and demonstrably the shares in the Company to be relisted committed to their role, considers that they at the time of the Combination.
are still independent of the Company in 86 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report and investment proposals in advance of Non-Executive Directors Board training Board meetings, as well as management and their function Arrangements are in place to ensure reports on the operational and financial Through membership of the Board that newly appointed Directors receive a performance of the business.
Financial Committees, the Non-Executive Directors comprehensive briefing on the Company.
performance is monitored on a monthly have responsibilities for: Training is provided for Directors on their basis and the overall performance of the overseeing that systems of internal roles and their legal obligations to ensure Group is reviewed against approved control and risk management are that they are fully conversant with their budgets.
At least once a year, the CEO appropriate and effective responsibilities as Directors.
presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board for review and approval.
Each managing the relationship with Periodically, the Board meets at the site investment decision is made in the the external auditor of one of the Groups power stations and context of this plan.
briefings are also given at Board meetings evaluating the performance of on particular parts of the business, The Board has established business values management in meeting targets including regional and functional reviews.
and standards for the Group, which provide and objectives Due to the implementation of the a framework for the Group to balance setting the remuneration Combination there were no Board visits the interests of all its stakeholders in the of Executive Directors to local business operations in 2010. conduct of its business.
The Companys However, the Health, Safety and Code of Business Conduct the Code appointing Executive Directors Environment HS&E Committee visited has been formally adopted by the Board planning senior management Fujairah F2 in the UAE and T-Power in and is set out on the Companys intranet.
This Code includes a whistle-blowing procedure.
The Board has also reviewed Directors are also kept informed of Executive Directors holding potential conflicts of the Directors in changes to the regulatory regime, such accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Non-Executive Directorships as the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
All of the Directors have access to The Board did not carry out a review of its The Company has a policy of encouraging the advice and services of the Company performance during 2010.
There were a its Executive Directors to hold a nonSecretary and also to external number of reasons for this.
First, there was executive directorship in another company.
independent advice should they so wish.
an externally facilitated review carried out This broadens their experience and helps during 2009 which had very positive results.
improve their contributions to the Group.
Insurance Secondly, the Combination has resulted in During 2010 Philip Cox was a Nona largely reconstituted Board for 2011 and Executive Director of Wm Morrison The Company has in place appropriate therefore, in the circumstances, it was Supermarkets PLC, where he is the insurance cover in respect of legal action considered that only limited benefit would Chairman of the Audit Committee.
be obtained from a Board review in 2010. remuneration for this role is retained by him and for year ended 31 January 2011 was Operation of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive 73,333.
Similarly, Steve Riley and Mark Officer Williamson are respectively Non-Executive The Board has responsibility for defining There is a clear division of responsibilities Directors of Shanks Group plc and strategy, ensuring the successful at the head of the Company between the Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
They are implementation of approved projects roles of the Chairman and the CEO.
The each entitled to retain their remuneration proposals and for reviewing the operations Chairman is responsible for the leadership for their roles which was, in 2010, 36,500 of the Group.
Prior to agreeing the and effective operation of the Board, in for Steve Riley and 85,000 for Mark Combination the Board spent a significant terms of its agenda, decision making and Williamson, who is also Chairman of the amount of time reviewing the strategy and the utilisation of the skills and experience Audit Committee at Imperial Tobacco.
strategic direction of the Group.
He monitors, with the review led to the conclusion that the assistance of the Company Secretary, Combination offered the best long-term the information provided to the Board benefit for shareholders.
The Board also to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, reviews annually the risk policies and timely and clear.
The Chairman is also profile of the Group and it maintains a responsible for ensuring that there is schedule of all matters requiring specific effective engagement and communication Board approval.
The CEO is responsible included all strategy decisions and for the overall management of the Group significant capital investment proposals and for leading the Executive Team and and acquisitions.
The Board receives operational teams in implementing the information on capital expenditure projects strategies approved by the Board.
GovernanCe 87 In addition it reviews the report prepared In 2010 the Committee comprised the Board Committees by the Risk Committee to ensure all independent Non-Executive Directors The Company has established the relevant risks are addressed in these of the Company and the Chairman.
The following Committees: the Audit external and internal audit processes.
Chairman of the Committee for 2010 was Committee: the Remuneration Committee: Time was set aside for the Committee John Roberts.
The Company Secretary the Appointments Committee and the to meet the external auditor and the acted as secretary to the Committee and HS&E Committee.
Throughout 2010 no Head of Internal Audit without Executive the Head of Global Resources acted person other than a Committee member Management present.
as advisor to the Committee.
In 2010, was entitled to attend the meetings of Towers Watson acted as external advisor The Company also issues Interim these Committees, except at the invitation to the Committee.
Management Statements IMS every of the Committee.
The full terms of quarter.
Each IMS is approved by a Following completion of the Combination reference for each Committee are Committee of the Board comprising the Remuneration Committee is chaired available on the Companys website.
the Chairman, the Chair of the Audit by Bernard Attali.
com investors Committee, the CEO and CFO.
of the Committee are Dirk Beeuwsaert, corporate-governance board-committees Grard Lamarche, David Weston and During 2010 the Audit Committee comprised Sir Rob Young.
all the independent Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee of the Company.
The Audit Committee The Committee manages the relationship Appointments Committee Chairman was Alan Murray.
Alan is a Fellow with the external auditor.
The Committee The Appointments Committee is of the Chartered Institute of Management annually reviews and approves the terms responsible for matters of management Accountants and was previously Chief of the appointment of the external auditor succession and the identification and Financial Officer of Hanson PLC.
It fixes the level of the appointment of Directors.
It also reviews Company Secretary acted as secretary to auditors remuneration ensuring it is the Board structure, size and composition, the Committee.
In addition to the members appropriate and does not compromise the and makes recommendations to the Board of the Committee, regular attendees at the effectiveness of the audit and reviews the with regard to changes that are deemed Audit Committee meetings included scope and adequacy of the audit of the desirable.
In 2010 the Committee representatives of the external auditor, Groups annual consolidated financial comprised the Chairman and all of the the Chairman, the CEO, the CFO, other statements.
The Committee also puts in independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors, the Group Controller place policies and procedures to ensure of the Company.
The Chairman of the and the Head of Internal Audit.
that the external auditor remains Committee for 2010 was Sir Neville Simms.
It reviews these, and the Following completion of the Combination The Company Secretary acted as auditors independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee is chaired by Tony secretary to the Committee.
This review includes the overall Isaac.
Tony is a Fellow of the Chartered Following completion of the Combination relationship between the auditor and the Institute of Management Accountants and, the Appointments Committee is chaired Company, including the safeguards before becoming Chief Executive of The by Sir Neville Simms.
The other members established by the external auditor for BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance of the Committee are Bernard Attali, maintaining independence, the rotation of Director.
The other members of the Audit Dirk Beeuwsaert, Tony Isaac and partners and staff who work on the audit, Committee are Grard Lamarche, Grard Lamarche.
and the level and nature of non-audit Sir Neville Simms and Michael Zaoui.
services provided by the auditor.
Remuneration Committee The Committee reviews all financial reports The Remuneration Committee is which for 2010 consisted of the responsible for ensuring that the overall Preliminary Results Announcement, remuneration of Executive Directors is Annual Report and the Interim Report maintained on a sensible and comparable including consideration of the Groups basis and enables the Company to accounting policies and major judgemental compete effectively for good calibre areas.
The Committee reviews the executives.
It monitors the performance effectiveness of the Groups systems of of Executive Directors against targets, internal control, and reviews the scope sets the performance conditions for the and the annual plan of the internal audit annual bonus and long-term incentive plan function and satisfies itself of its adequacy, awards, and reviews the remuneration particularly in terms of resources and levels and other conditions of service performance against its annual plan.
of senior managers immediately below Board level.
88 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report International Power also runs, within GDF SUEZs relationship with International Health, Safety and Environment Committee the terms of the regulatory framework, Power, as its 70% majority shareholder, frequent contact programmes with is governed by a Relationship Agreement.
The HS&E Committee was established with effect from 1 January 2008.
It is responsible industry analysts and institutional investors The Relationship Agreement, amongst to discuss matters of strategy and financial other things, sets out the arrangements for: for reviewing the Groups HS&E policies, objectives and performance.
Contact is made principally GDF SUEZs right to appoint four by the CEO and the CFO.
On issues Committee was chaired by Struan Directors to the Companys Board Robertson during 2010 and also comprised of major importance the Chairman communicates with major shareholders.
the constitution of the various one other Non-Executive Director and the CEO.
In addition, the Head of Operations The Senior Independent Non-Executive Committees of the Board Director for 2010 this was Tony Isaac and, and Engineering attended meetings of the the Board considering certain reserved Committee.
During 2010 the HS&E following completion of the Combination, matters, which require the approval is Sir Neville Simms is also available Committee met twice, once at Fujairah F2 of at least two GDF SUEZ appointed in the UAE and once at T-Power in Belgium as an alternative point of contact if Directors shareholders have concerns over the both during the construction phase where health and safety are critical.
At these Chairmans performance, or where the restriction on GDF SUEZs ability contact with the Chairman or the use of to deal in voting shares in the Company meetings the Committee reviewed, amongst other things, HS&E data, Group other communication channels would be for the 18 months following completion inappropriate.
All results, presentations of the Combination health and safety initiatives and the corporate environmental policy.
The and Stock Exchange announcements potential business conflicts between are available to shareholders on the Company Secretary acted as secretary the Group and members of the GDF to the Committee.
SUEZ Group Following completion of the Combination www.
com investors resultsmaintaining the Company as an and-presentations the Committee is chaired by David independent company Weston.
The other members of the At each Board meeting, an update is given The Relationship Agreement terminates Committee are Dirk Beeuwsaert and Sir Neville Simms.
on movements in major shareholdings upon GDF SUEZ ceasing to hold at least and on contact programmes between 50% interest in the voting shares of the the Executive Directors and institutional Company.
Reports on the Company The Board is accountable to shareholders issued by financial analysts are circulated for the performance and activities of the to Board members.
International Power ensures that the Directors to gain an understanding of its AGM provides shareholders with an the views and opinions of those with an opportunity to receive comprehensive interest in the Company.
information on all aspects of the Groups During 2007 the Company implemented business activities and to question senior the provisions, approved by shareholders management about business issues and at the 2007 AGM, that allow for all prospects.
shareholder documents to be provided All proxy votes are counted and the level electronically unless otherwise requested of proxy votes lodged for each resolution by the shareholder.
To ensure all is reported at the AGM and on the shareholders are kept informed of the Companys website.
In line with best Companys performance for 2010, all the practice, the Company aims to ensure that shareholders who did not elect to receive the Notice of AGM and the Annual Report a hard copy of the Annual Report will are sent to shareholders at least 20 receive the Results Brief.
This balances working days before the AGM.
the Companys desire to reduce its costs and impact on the environment with www.
com investors keeping shareholders informed of the  general-meetings Groups progress.
In addition, during 2010, the Companys CEO and CFO met with representatives of the United Kingdom Shareholders Association.
GovernanCe 89 Any system of internal control is designed Accountability and audit Internal control to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of The Board is mindful of its responsibility to The Board has responsibility for the failure to achieve business objectives.
The present a balanced and understandable Groups system of internal control and for system can only provide reasonable, and assessment of International Powers monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
not absolute, assurance against material financial position and prospects, both financial misstatement or loss.
The Board Systems are in place to meet the to investors and regulatory authorities.
reviewed the effectiveness of internal requirements of the Combined Code The Preliminary Announcement, Annual control procedures during 2010.
Following the Report, Interim Report and IMSs are the principal features of the Groups systems Company deregistering from the Securities principal means of achieving this objective.
of internal control are as follows: and Exchange Commission in the US, An explanation of the responsibilities of the in June 2007, it is no longer required to Control environment Directors in connection with the financial comply with the terms of the SarbanesThe Board encourages a culture of statements is set out in the responsibility Oxley Act.
However, the Group has integrity and openness.
The Group has statement of the Directors.
The Directors implemented procedures and systems an organisational structure with clear lines confirm in the Directors report their view deriving from that compliance programme of accountability and authority across that the Group is a going concern.
to ensure key controls are embedded into its worldwide operations, supported by the internal control framework.
Responsibility statement of the Directors appropriate reporting procedures.
Each page 113 We consider that we have an appropriate of the regional businesses is accountable and robust internal control system for to the CEO and is managed within the KPMG Audit Plc is the auditor of the Group financial reporting and performance strategic guidelines and delegated and parent company financial statements monitoring.
We previously reviewed our authorities adopted by the Board.
The responsibility of financial reporting controls to ensure they Executive Team, chaired by the CEO the external auditor is set out in the were able to meet the requirements of and comprising the Executive Directors, Independent auditors report.
section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act regional heads and functional heads, for the year ended 31 December 2006. meets regularly to discuss issues facing Independent auditors report page 190 Although we are no longer subject to the the Group.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have continued Since the formation of International Power plc to maintain that standard for financial Control procedures in 2000, following demerger, KPMG Audit reporting controls, and this is supported Control procedures have been established Plc has been the external auditor of the through an annual regime of control, in each of the Groups operations to Group.
The continuing appointment of self assessments and certifications by safeguard the Groups assets from loss KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor has business and function managers, and or misuse and to ensure appropriate been recommended to the Board based reviews by Group Internal Audit.
authorisation and recording of financial on a review of performance, and a transactions.
All acquisition and consideration of fee levels, which is In order to measure our performance, the investment decisions are subject conducted annually.
The external audit for delivery of our strategy and to provide an to disciplined investment appraisal 2010 was not subject to a tender process.
early warning of variances to our forecasts, processes.
Risk management procedures we monitor a number of performance The Audit Committee has a process in are in place for the Groups operations, indicators.
During 2010 the principal place to approve all non-audit services including its energy marketing and trading financial key performance indicators KPIs provided by the external auditor to ensure activities, which are overseen by the Global were profit from operations PFO, earnings that the objectivity and independence of Commodities Risk Committee.
This per share EPS and free cash flow, and the external auditor are not compromised.
Committee comprises Executive Directors, the non-financial KPIs related to health Our policies specify the services from the Executive Team and Senior Managers, and safety, environmental performance which the external auditor is excluded and and is chaired by the CFO.
The Group and the availability of plant.
the approval process for all other services.
Treasury function operates under defined KPIs pages 32 to 37 policies and the oversight of the Treasury Committee, which is chaired by the CFO.
90 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance report Business Unit Managers provide annual Performance reporting Corporate reporting and information self-certification statements of compliance The Company has a disclosure committee with procedures.
These statements give which is chaired by the Company Corporate plan assurance that controls are in operation Secretary and is comprised of Executive management submits an annual and confirm that programmes are in place representatives from the Internal Audit, corporate plan to the Board for approval.
to address any weaknesses in internal Corporate Communications, Global The plan for each business unit is the control.
The certification process Resources, Operations and Engineering, quantified assessment of its planned embraces all areas of material risk.
The Company Secretariat and External operating and financial performance Internal Audit department reviews the Financial Reporting departments.
It for the next financial year, together with statements on behalf of the disclosure reviews the Annual Report, the Summary strategic reviews for the following four committee and reports any significant Annual Report and the Results Brief.
Group management reviews issues to the Audit Committee.
the plans with each operational team.
Risk identification The individual plans are based on key and management Compliance with the economic and financial assumptions and As outlined in the section Our approach incorporate an assessment of the risk and Combined Code to risk and risk management there is sensitivities underlying the projections.
There were three areas where the a continuous process for identifying, Board was not fully compliant with the evaluating and managing the key risks Performance monitoring requirements of the revised Combined faced by the Group.
Activities are coMonthly performance and financial reports Code throughout 2010: ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is are produced for each business unit, chaired by the CFO and has responsibility, with comparisons to budget.
Reports During the year there were more on behalf of the Board, for ensuring the Executive Directors than Non-Executive are consolidated for overall review by the adequacy of systems for identifying Executive Team, together with forecasts Directors on the Board as discussed and assessing significant risks, that on page 84. for the income statement and cash flow.
appropriate control systems and other Detailed reports are presented to the The Senior Independent Director mitigating actions are in place, and that Board on a regular basis.
did not have a contact programme residual exposures are consistent with to communicate with institutional the Group strategy and objectives.
Performance review investors, primarily to avoid potential Each business unit is subject to regular Our approach to risk and risk management confusion over channels of performance reviews with Group pages 18 to 31 communication and because the management during the year.
Actual Board considers this unnecessary.
results and forecasts for the year are During 2010 one institutional Monitoring compared to budget.
Key operational shareholder contacted the Senior The Board reviews the effectiveness of and financial results are reviewed together Independent Director to discuss established internal controls through the with the risk profile and business succession issues at the Board level.
Audit Committee, which receives reports environment of the reporting unit.
from management, the Groups Internal The Board did not carry out a review Audit function, and the external auditor of its performance during 2010 Investment projects on the systems of internal control and risk Investment projects are subject to formal as discussed on page 86. management arrangements.
review and authorisation procedures with In all other respects, the Company designated levels of authority, including The Internal Audit department reviews the complied with the provisions of the a review by the Investment Committee effectiveness of internal controls and risk Combined Code throughout the period ICOM chaired by the CEO and management through a work programme, of the review.
Major which is based on the Groups objectives projects are subject to Board review and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit and approval.
Findings are reported to the Executive Team and the Audit Committee.
GovernanCe 91 Provision D. 2.1 of the Combined New Board structure The new Board structure, which has been Code provides that the Remuneration Committee should be made up outlined in this report and which took effect on completion of the Combination, entirely of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, the Chairman was described in the Circular sent to shareholders dated 19 November 2010 of the Board may also be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The and was part of the arrangements approved by an overwhelming majority International Power Remuneration Committee comprises five members at the General Meeting held to approve the Combination.
These arrangements with a majority including the International Power Remuneration are in compliance with the revised Combined Code, save in relation Committee Chairman being Independent Non-Executive Directors.
to the following matters: The corporate governance arrangements Electrabel S. A. a wholly-owned subsidiary of GDF SUEZ, has the referred to above are considered by the Board to be appropriate given the right to appoint a Non-Independent Chairman of International Power and shareholding structure of International Power and the terms of the Relationship on appointment that Director will not fulfil the independence criteria set out Agreement.
1.1 of the Combined Code as required by provision A.
3.1 Independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Combined Code.
Each of the Independent Non-Executive Provision B.
2.1 of the Combined Directors is considered to be independent Code provides that a Nomination for the purposes of the Combined Code.
Committee should lead the process Sir Neville Simms and Tony Isaac have for Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board.
each served on the International Power Board for more than nine years and, in However, Electrabel S. A. has enshrined rights under the Relationship the case of Sir Neville, he has also been Non-Executive Chairman of International Agreement to appoint some of the Directors to the Board and Power since 2000.
Each of Sir Neville and Tony Isaac continues to be effective and to Committees of the enlarged International Power Board.
to demonstrate commitment to the role and is regarded as being independent in Provision C. 3.1 of the Combined Code character and judgement.
Therefore, each provides that the Audit Committee of them is considered to be independent should be made up entirely of for these purposes.
The International Power Michael Zaouis brother, Yoel, is head of European Investment Banking at Audit Committee comprises four members with a majority including Goldman Sachs, one of the financial advisers to GDF SUEZ in connection the International Power Audit Committee Chairman being with the Combination.
Notwithstanding this relationship, Michael is considered Independent Non-Executive Directors.
to be independent in character and judgement and, accordingly, eligible for appointment as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
By order of the Board Franois Graux Company Secretary 1 March 2011
