Corporate Governance Report Chairmans foreword The Board of Intertek Group plc recognises and is committed to Contents the highest standards of corporate governance.
On 27 May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued the UK Corporate Governance 46 Chairmans foreword Code the new Code following its review of the Combined Code 47 Governance framework on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code, which is the end result of 47 Board attendance a year of consultation on the state of governance in the UK.
48 Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer The new Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. and Senior Independent Director 48 Board balance and independence In July 2010 the Board reviewed and discussed the new Code, noting that the comply or explain reporting mechanism continues 48 Professional development to underpin the UK corporate governance system and that the 49 Performance evaluation proposed changes have been made to increase the effectiveness of boards and make them more accountable to their shareholders.
49 Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts The Board concluded that Intertek Group plc is in a strong position of interests to comply with the provisions of that Code.
However, we will continue to explain fully our reasons for any non-compliance if the 49 The Board and its Committees Board feels compliance is not in the best interests of the Company 50 The Remuneration Committee or our shareholders.
In line with the recommendation made by the new Code we have decided to introduce the annual re-election of 50 The Nominations Committee all directors from 2011.
51 The Audit and Risk Committee To ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board, each year all 52 Internal control directors take part in a rigorous review of its effectiveness and the 53 Shareholders results of this review are discussed at the January Board meeting and an action plan formulated.
During 2010 the Nominations Committee 53 Going concern continued to consider if the Board has the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge necessary to face challenges on key business decisions and risks.
We have recently announced that two additional Non-Executive Directors, Michael Wareing and Alan Brown will be joining the Board with effect from 15 April 2011.
I am delighted that they will be joining us and am sure that they will make a valuable addition to the Intertek Board.
Steps have been taken to further strengthen the internal controls and risk management structures within the business.
All these areas are described more fully in the following Corporate Governance Report.
I can confirm on behalf of the Board of Intertek Group plc that we are resolute in adhering to strong corporate governance guidelines and practices to ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board and the long-term success of the Group.
Vanni Treves Chairman 46 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com Governance framework If a Director has any concerns about the Group or a proposed The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance action, then such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes and this report outlines its compliance with the provisions of the as a matter of course.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, Combined Code which remains applicable to the accounting period all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant information.
under review, until the new Code becomes effective.
The Combined Papers are circulated well before the Board and Committee meetings Code is available at www.
Throughout 2010 the Group to ensure that Directors have the necessary time to read and review.
complied with all but one of the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports and information which enable them to scrutinise the Groups The one area of non-compliance is that prior to 13 May 2010 the and managements performance against agreed objectives and membership of the Audit and Risk Committee included Vanni Treves, prior performance.
Chairman of the Company, which did not accord with the requirement of section C. 3.1 of the Combined Code.
On 13 May Board attendance 2010 the Board reviewed and discussed the composition of the Name Position Attendance Audit and Risk Committee.
As Edward Astle had been appointed Vanni Treves 8 8 to that committee in 2009, the Board agreed to accept the decision Chairman of Vanni Treves to step down as a member of the Committee and since that date the composition of the Committee has complied Wolfhart Hauser 8 8 with the Combined Code.
Chief Executive Officer Lloyd Pitchford appointed 26 April 2010 6 6 The Board is responsible and accountable to shareholders for Chief Financial Officer ensuring that the Company is appropriately managed and that David Allvey 8 8 it achieves its objectives.
The Boards main role is to understand Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and meet its obligations to the Companys shareholders and others, to lead the Group within a framework of prudent and effective Edward Astle 8 8 controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed, to approve Independent Non-Executive Director the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that sufficient Gavin Darby 8 8 resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives.
Independent Non-Executive Director The Board also ensures that plans are in place for orderly succession Christopher Knight 8 8 for appointments to the Board and to senior management.
Independent Non-Executive Director During the year, the Board consisted of a Non-Executive Chairman, Debra Rade 8 8 three Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Directors.
All Directors have a wide range of experience and skills, bringing independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, Former Directors performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The Directors' Bill Spencer retired 31 March 2010 2 2 biographies appear on page 43.
During the year, the Board met Chief Financial Officer eight times, in addition to frequent informal contact between Mark Loughead retired 31 December 2010 8 8 Directors to discuss the Groups affairs and develop its business.
Chief Operating Officer Directors attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on the right.
Also on several occasions during 2010, the Chairman met with Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board member.
the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had discussions without the Chairman being present.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 47 Corporate Governance Report Role of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to Senior Independent Director ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are In order to avoid any one individual having unfettered powers, fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term there is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper and the Chief Executive Officer.
These have been set out in writing account of the interests of customers, employees and other and approved by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors are all experienced individuals and through their mix of skills and business experience Vanni Treves was appointed Chairman of the Board in May 2002, they contribute significantly to the effective functioning of the Board at which point he met the independence criteria as set out in the and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that Combined Code.
His responsibilities as Chairman include: the no one individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that the Directors At the forthcoming AGM all Directors will stand for re-election receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective by shareholders.
communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution to the Board of the Non-Executive Directors in Professional development particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between the Upon appointment to the Board, new Non-Executive Directors Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairmans other receive a formal induction programme, co-ordinated by the Group main commitments are detailed in his biography on page 43.
Company Secretary, tailored to suit the individuals previous experience.
Ongoing training is provided to Directors as necessary, Wolfhart Hauser, the Chief Executive Officer, has direct charge for example, on best practice and changes in legislation, of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board developments in the economic and regulatory environment and for the financial and operational performance of the Group.
In addition, visits to sites are usually arranged at least once a year and one Board meeting is held abroad David Allvey was appointed Senior Independent Director in May which provides an opportunity for the Board to meet more senior 2002.
His responsibilities include leading the Non-Executive managers within the Group and to further their knowledge of the Directors annual consideration of the Chairmans performance Groups operations.
In November 2010 meetings were held in Miami and holding discussions with the Non-Executive Directors without with the focus on reviewing and discussing the regional strategy management present.
David Allvey is readily available to for Latin America.
During the visit the Board met members of the shareholders if they have concerns that remain unresolved after Intertek Operations Committee and other senior managers within contacting the Group through the usual channels of the Chairman the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors also attend various seminars or any of the Executive Directors, or where such contact is during the year on topics relevant to a publicly listed company.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Board balance and independence Company Secretary, who will assist in arranging any additional The Nominations Committee reviewed the independence of all the training and information as required.
The appointment and removal Non-Executive Directors taking into account the criteria outlined of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as in A.
As a result, there was no change a whole.
to the independent status of the current Non-Executive Directors and the Board considers David Allvey, Edward Astle, Gavin Darby, All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional Christopher Knight and Debra Rade to be independent in character advice, at the Groups expense, in the performance of their duties as and judgement.
All the Non-Executive Directors continue to Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
The Company demonstrate the necessary characteristics of independence expected has granted an indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each of by the Board and they have no material relationships or links the Directors and Group Company Secretary.
Directors and officers to the business which would compromise their independence.
liability insurance is in place.
48 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com The Board believes that strong corporate governance improves the The Audit and Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees performance of the business and enhances shareholder value.
During also each held an evaluation of their work and effectiveness during its meetings in 2010 the Board received and discussed reports from the year, the results of which were reported to the Board by the the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Group Company Secretary.
The reviews concluded that each Officer on strategy, debt financing, market reports, share trading Committee was operating in an efficient and effective manner.
reports, analysts forecasts, potential acquisitions, litigation reports, The Board will continue to develop the evaluation process in order final and interim dividend recommendations, potential contract bids, to ensure that it can properly review, on an annual basis, its road show and investor feedback, budgets, tax policy, Annual Report, performance and that of its individual members and Committees.
Half Year Results, interim management statements, announcements and a wide range of other issues.
Procedures to deal with Directors conflicts of interests The Board has a formal system to deal with conflicts of Directors Performance evaluation interests.
Each year all Directors complete a questionnaire in order Once again, the Board engaged in a rigorous performance to identify any conflicts or potential conflicts of interests.
The evaluation process led by the Chairman comprising a series of decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by nondetailed questionnaires which provide a framework for the evaluation conflicted Directors, meaning those who have no interest in the process.
This provides a source of information not just on the Boards matter being considered.
The authorised decisions are reviewed on performance but also on that of individual Directors and the Chairman.
an annual basis or, where appropriate, authorisation is sought prior There are questionnaires for each of the following: the Board: to the appointment of any new directors or if a new conflict arises.
each individual Director: and the Audit and Risk, Nominations and During 2010 this procedure operated effectively.
For 2010, no external facilitated evaluation was carried out as it was felt that an internal evaluation continued The Board and its Committees to be appropriate.
The performance evaluation process will continue The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject to be under review in the future.
to regular reporting to the Board, so that the performance of management can be reviewed and monitored.
A Board Approval This annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Matrix is in place which formally outlines the matters specifically Committees ensures that the performance of each individual requiring the consent of the full Board.
Matters include: Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board and group strategy: each Committee are properly measured and debated.
annual budget: annual Report, Half Year Results and related announcements: The Chairman assesses the individual performance of each Director, capital expenditure: taking into account discussions with other Directors.
The Senior acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside Independent Director has discussions with the other Executive delegated limits: and Non-Executive Directors, without the Chairman being present, material contracts: in order to appraise the Chairmans performance during the year.
dividend policy: Following feedback from the Board evaluation process which was approval of tax, treasury and risk management policies.
discussed by the Board in January 2010, presentations from senior management to the Board have continued throughout 2010 and The Board Approval Matrix also identifies areas where the Board has a session held on regional strategy to increase the understanding delegated authority to executive management, subject to certain of the operations and opportunities.
Each of the presentations made financial limits.
Where any of the activities involve amounts greater to the Board also includes a section on risk to ensure that all Directors than those limits they are referred to the Board.
are fully briefed in this area.
The performance of the Board and each Director was, and is, effective, and all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles to the Company evidenced, inter alia, by the Board and Committee attendance records set out in this report.
The evaluations further demonstrate that the Board has an appropriate set of skills, that all the Directors add value to the overall effectiveness and success of the Group, and that no substantial issues have arisen out of the evaluation process.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 49 Corporate Governance Report In order to operate effectively and to give appropriate attention The main purpose of the Committee is to nominate candidates to and consideration to matters, the Board has established three fill Board vacancies, review talent mapping and succession planning Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures for the Board and senior management and make recommendations and powers.
These terms of reference are available on request from on the balance and composition of the Board.
In the event of any the Group Company Secretary at the registered office or can be perceived conflict of interest, a sub committee comprising nondownloaded from www.
These Committees comprise conflicted Directors is appointed.
the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board is kept informed by During the year the Board accepted the Committees the Committee chairmen through the provision of a summary recommendations that Lloyd Pitchford be appointed as successor of the issues discussed and decisions taken by the Committee.
to Bill Spencer who retired as Chief Financial Officer from the Board on 31 March 2010.
The following sections explain the responsibilities of each Board Committee and the areas that they covered during the year.
The Nominations Committee membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during the year: The Remuneration Committee Name Attendance At the end of 2010, this Committee comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors, David Allvey Chairman, Gavin Darby and Vanni Treves Chairman 2 2 Christopher Knight together with Vanni Treves.
The Combined Code David Allvey 2 2 requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least three Christopher Knight 2 2 independent Non-Executive Directors whilst allowing the Chairman Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend of the Board of Directors of the Company, if considered independent as a Committee member.
on appointment, to be a member.
Organisation and succession planning are important components in The Committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with ensuring the continued success of the Group.
As part of the strategy the Board the framework or board policy for the remuneration of processes our operations plan the future organisation needed and the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives and for address the consequent talent pipelines for all key roles across the the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of additional Group.
The Group first introduced a global integrated approach benefits for each of the Executive Directors, including pension rights to talent in 2006.
This is central to building our customer-centric and any compensation for loss of office.
The Committee is also organisation for continued growth.
Linked with the other HR responsible for the implementation and operation of employee share frameworks in place across the Group, this delivers a pragmatic incentive arrangements.
Details of the matters discussed and actions approach to talent management in a global yet geographically taken by the Remuneration Committee, including the Groups dispersed business.
remuneration for Executive Directors, and details of benefits, share options, pension entitlements, service contracts and compensation Organisation and talent reviews cascade across the global organisation payments are given in the Remuneration Report which starts on conducted by career committees of the appropriate Executives.
The page 54. principal actions resulting from these reviews relate to development of executive capacity across Intertek.
Annual reviews of the overall Membership and attendance at meetings during the year was process and global priorities, as well as detailed plans at the most as follows: senior levels, are reviewed annually by the Nominations Committee.
Name Attendance Bearing in mind the balance of existing skills, knowledge and David Allvey Chairman 7 7 experience of the Board, a job description is prepared for any new Gavin Darby 7 7 Board position and when a Non-Executive Director is appointed, the Committee requires confirmation that he or she can devote sufficient Christopher Knight 7 7 time to fulfil the commitments of the role.
The Committee ensures Vanni Treves 7 7 that the search for any board candidate is conducted, on merit, Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of as a Committee member.
diversity on the board, including gender.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection The Nominations Committee by any person at the Companys registered office during normal This Committee currently comprises, Vanni Treves Chairman, business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to the meeting David Allvey and Christopher Knight.
During 2010 this Committee and during the meeting.
All new Directors are subject to election was evaluated and the Board agreed that membership of the by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment and then Committee was appropriate and effective.
The composition subject to re-election by shareholders every year.
of the Committee is in compliance with the Combined Code.
50 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the The Audit and Risk Committee seeks to ensure the continued Remuneration Report.
independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors.
A revised policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external The Audit and Risk Committee auditors has been approved in February 2011 to ensure that auditors This Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
To this end, the policy David Allvey Chairman, Edward Astle and Christopher Knight.
highlights those areas where the external auditor cannot provide Until 13 May 2010 Vanni Treves also served as a member of the services to the Group, including inter alia, the provision of Group Committee.
As Chairman of the Board of Directors, Vanni Treves management functions, internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal was not viewed as independent and therefore the Committee did advice and recruitment and remuneration advice.
The external auditors not comply with the Combined Code.
Notwithstanding the nonconfirm by way of a letter to the Board that processes to ensure compliance with the Combined Code, the Committee felt that compliance with this policy are in place, and that these processes are Vanni Treves continued to contribute valuable legal knowledge and monitored regularly.
A detailed breakdown of the audit and non-audit experience to the discussions of the Committee and hence remained fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year is set out in note 5 a member until 13 May 2010 when, following the appointment of to the financial statements.
Edward Astle in September 2009, Vanni Treves stepped down as a member of the Committee.
Both David Allvey and Christopher The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc Knight have recent and relevant financial experience as detailed be reappointed the Groups external auditor at the forthcoming AGM.
in their biographies on page 43.
At its meetings during 2010 the Committee reviewed and endorsed The key functions of the Audit and Risk Committee are to monitor prior to submission to the Board, the Groups 2009 Annual Report and the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal 2010 Half Year Results.
The Chairman and other Committee members announcements relating to the Groups performance and review also attend meetings with the external auditors and management to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and discuss any accounting issues associated with the annual audit.
In accordance with its terms of reference, reviewed the Groups arrangements for the avoidance and detection the Committee is responsible for: of fraud and related matters, whistle-blowing and hotlines, monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process compliance, training, quality assurance systems and potential claims and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the affecting the Group.
appointment, reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors, and for ensuring that an appropriate relationship The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual is maintained between the Group and its external auditors: Report and the Half Year Results announcement remains with reviewing annually the effectiveness of the Groups systems of the Board.
internal control, risk management, the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group and the efficacy of the Membership and attendance at meetings was as follows during internal audit function: the year: monitoring the progress of internal audit activity against the Name Attendance annual plan, and reviewing the strategy, scope and approach of the internal audit and risk management teams: David Allvey Chairman 4 4 reviewing the corrective action taken by management to address Edward Astle 4 4 any control issues identified by the internal audit and risk Christopher Knight 4 4 management function: and approving the appointment and termination of the Vice President Vanni Treves retired from the Committee 13 May 2010 1 1 Risk Management and Internal Audit and meeting with him Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a at least once a year without management present.
Committee meetings are usually attended by the Groups external auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Vice President Financial Control and the Vice President Risk Management and Internal Audit.
The Groups external auditors meet with the members of the Audit and Risk Committee at least once a year without management present.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 51 Corporate Governance Report Internal control The Group maintains a robust stance in regard to breaches of ethics The Groups primary business objectives require adherence to local, and all employees are required to sign a certificate confirming their national and international laws and require the Groups employees understanding that any breaches of the Groups Code of Ethics will to show integrity and honesty in all business dealings.
Risk result in disciplinary action that may include summary dismissal of management and internal controls are therefore embedded in the the employee concerned.
To support Group policies and to facilitate running of each division and support function, assuring the accuracy the raising of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of and validity of reports and certificates that the Group provides to financial reporting or any other matters, the Group provides and customers.
The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining publicises email and telephone hotlines so that staff may report the Groups system of internal control and risk management and anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices.
Such a system can realistically only All complaints are investigated thoroughly with action taken manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business as appropriate.
The number of complaints received, together objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against with the corrective actions taken, is reported to the Audit and material misstatement or loss.
During 2010, 141 complaints were received and investigated 122 in 2009.
The Group continues to publicise the There are number of controls in place to ensure that the Group existence of hotlines to internal and external parties, and sees has robust procedures for preparing consolidated accounts and for hotlines as an important tool in eradicating isolated cases of poor financial reporting.
Intertek has a clear set of Accounting Policies and behaviour.
Most investigations concluded that the complaint was Procedures available to all staff.
This gives instructions on accounting unfounded, but corrective action was taken where appropriate.
There are ongoing reviews of adherence to these policies by Group Internal Audit and by Finance Management.
In carrying out its review, the Audit and Risk Committee endeavours The Group is audited externally by KPMG Audit Plc.
to ensure that the Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, checks, systems and risk management techniques The Board confirms that in addition to internal audits, there is an so as to be in line with best practice on such matters.
During 2010 ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any the control environment within the Group has been strengthened significant risks to the Groups short-and long-term value, including by the establishment of two internal committees.
The Risk Control those arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
This and Assurance Committee RCA was established in July 2010 process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with with the remit of overseeing the development of the internal the Turnbull Guidance, has been in place for the year under review control framework, reviewing risk matrices and risk management and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Any breaches procedures, monitoring issues and providing a conduit of of internal controls identified by the Groups control review information to senior management.
The Committee comprises the procedures are reported to the Audit and Risk Committee and Chief Financial Officer, Group Company Secretary, Group Executive corrective action taken.
In carrying out the risk review, the Board is Vice President of Human Resources, Vice President Financial Control, satisfied that it received adequate information from the operations Chief Financial Officer Asia and Vice President Risk Management and around the world.
Training is provided to Directors on these matters Internal Audit and meets every month.
An Investment Committee where necessary.
has also been established with the remit of approving and reviewing requests for expenditure throughout the business within certain The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the limits as outlined in the Board Approval Matrix.
This Committee system of financial and non-financial internal control during the year.
comprises the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer.
In particular, it has reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying and evaluating all significant risks affecting Each operating division and support function is responsible for the the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to that are managed.
This is reinforced by the Intertek Compliance Code area of business, together with the design and operation of suitable and Code of Ethics, which provide practical guidance and instruction internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and for employees.
The Codes are available at www.
are reviewed by the RCA, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external factors including control breakdowns, disruption of information systems, litigation, loss of key facilities, retention of key staff, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
Operation of the controls is designed to minimise the occurrence of risk or its consequences.
52 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Governance www.
com A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant reporting has been established which provides a documented changes in the business and the external environment which could trail of accountability.
These procedures are applied across Group impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with operations and provide for continuing assurances to be given at monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of increasingly higher levels of management and finally, to the Board.
This key performance figures against budgets and forecasts.
Information process is facilitated by Internal Audit which also provides assurance as is also provided with regard to risk indicators.
The Board approves to the operation and validity of the system of internal controls.
Planned the treasury policy and the Treasury departments activities are also corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion.
subject to regular internal audits.
Each division and support function reports annually to the Audit Shareholders and Risk Committee via the Vice President Risk Management and The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective Internal Audit on its review of risks and how they are managed.
Each investor relations and communication programme as part of its year senior operational managers throughout the Group confirm the ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Group adequacy of their systems of internal controls, compliance with Group produces an Annual Report which is available to shareholders and also policies, local laws and regulations and report any control weaknesses publishes interim management statements and Half Year Results.
The identified in the past year.
A separate review of the key financial Group website www.
com contains up-to-date information on controls is undertaken by the finance function.
One of the Audit and its activities and published financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe Risk Committees main roles is to review, on behalf of the Board, the via the Investors section of www.
com to receive email alerts key risks inherent in the business and the system of controls necessary of important announcements made by the Group.
The Companies Act to ensure such risks are properly managed.
2006 and the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules enable communications with shareholders using electronic means via Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions, and the the Group website or by email.
The Groups Annual Report, notices findings reported to divisional management and to compliance of meetings and proxy forms are provided electronically as a default officers.
Each division has at least one compliance officer who option.
However, shareholders are also able to request paper copies undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality of documents if they so choose.
assurance audits or by other means, such as the employee hotline.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit and Any significant comments received from institutional shareholders Risk Committee.
are communicated directly to the Board, and all analysts and brokers reports on the Group are sent to each Director.
Each geographic region has at least one internal auditor who is independent of the divisions.
Sites are reviewed regularly on The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity a schedule based on materiality and perceived risk.
Reports of to further develop their understanding of the Company and to ask significant findings are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee questions of the full Board on the matters put to the meeting, which monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit including the Annual Report.
All Board members attend the AGM function.
The internal audit department was awarded ISO 9001 and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Nominations accreditation in 2003 which was successfully renewed for a further and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
An external accreditation body conducts At General Meetings a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made surveillance audits of the internal audit department every year available to all shareholders and is also available on the Group website.
and conducts a more detailed review every three years.
The Company proposes a resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions inappropriately.
The Group will, from time to time, be required by its customers to operate in countries where there is potential political and economic Going concern risk.
In doing so, the Group fulfils its policy of facilitating international After making diligent enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable trade inspection and audit services that help to prevent corruption and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue assist with humanitarian aid.
Where there are no laws in place that in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue prohibit business dealings in certain countries, the Group will consider to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups operating in those countries, but only in compliance with its stringent financial statements.
