Corporate Governance Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance and the Board is pleased to confirm that during the year the Company has been fully compliant This report has been prepared in accordance with section 1 of with the provisions of the Combined Code.
the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code.
The Board The report, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 38 Role to 50, describes how the principles set out in the Combined Code The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of have been applied.
A printed copy of the Combined Code can the Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs be obtained free of charge from FRC publications by telephone to create shareholder value.
The Board provides leadership and 44 0 20 8247 1264, email customer.
co. uk and sets the Companys strategic aims.
com Its duties are set out in a formal schedule of matters specifically The Company is committed to high standards of corporate reserved for decision by the Board as summarised below.
governance, and the Board is pleased to report that throughout the year under review the Company has been fully compliant Schedule of matters reserved for the Board with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code.
Overall management of the Group and its long-term TheInvensys Code of Conduct which is part of the broader objectives, commercial strategy and operational planning Compliance Programme aims to ensure the business acts Acquisitions, disposals and other transactions outside of with integrity and complies with all laws.
delegated limits Material changes to the Groups corporate structure Approval of financial results and dividend policy, and experience to enable them to constructively challenge and declaration of interim and final dividends develop the Groups strategy and direction.
Changes to the Groups capital structure Changes to the Board and other senior executive leaders Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the Appointment of the Groups principal advisers operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is Any major changes to the Groups pension plans particularly important in ensuring that the strategy and business Approval of the Code of Conduct and other Group policies proposals of the executive management team are fully debated, to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of shareholders Certain decision-making is delegated through structured and also take account of issues affecting employees, customers, procedures to committees as described on page 33 and, for suppliers and the many communities with which Invensys interacts.
operational matters, to senior management.
The Senior Independent Director is Michael Parker, who has Directors: composition and independence held this role since December 2006.
Mr Parker, as the Senior The Board is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, who was appointed Independent Director, is available for shareholders to contact non-executive director and Deputy Chairman on 1 January and is also responsible for leading the Chairmans annual 2009 and replaced Martin Jay as Chairman when he retired on performance evaluation.
Jean-Claude Guez, non-executive director and Executive directors are encouraged not to hold more than Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also retired on 17 July one external non-executive directorship, which is in line with 2009.
Steve Hare resigned from the Board effective 31 May 2009 the Combined Code requirement.
The Chief Executive, Ulf and was succeeded by Wayne Edmunds, who joined the Board Henriksson, joined the board of Hexagon AB as a non-executive and became Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2009. director on 2 May 2007 following the confirmation that there was Francesco Caio and Dr Martin Read were appointed as nonno conflict between the business of the Group and Hexagon AB.
Paul Lester joined as an Hexagon AB is a Swedish global technology group, listed on additional non-executive director on 1 January 2010.
At the end the Swedish Stock Exchange, specialising in measurement of the year, the Board consisted of two executive directors and technologies, polymers and engineering components.
This is six non-executive directors, in addition to the Chairman.
the only non-executive directorship that Mr Henriksson holds.
The Chief Financial Officer, Wayne Edmunds, does not hold The Board any external non-executive directorships.
Chairman 1 Executive directors 2 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-executive directors 6 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, which is defined in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
He facilitates the contribution of the non-executive directors and effective communication with shareholders.
He ensures that constructive relations exist between the executive and non-executive directors.
The Board considers that all of the current non-executive directors The Chief Executive is responsible for executing the strategy are independent.
The non-executive directors are drawn from approved by the Board and for the leadership of the Group.
diverse international businesses and bring a range of skills and | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Corporate Governance continued Audit Remuneration Nominating Board Committee Committee Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible 1 Current directors Sir Nigel Rudd 9 9 4 4 3 3 2 Ulf Henriksson 8 8 3 3 3 Wayne Edmunds 7 7 4 Francesco Caio 6 6 3 3 4 4 Bay Green 9 9 5 5 7 7 3 3 5 Paul Lester 3 3 2 2 Michael Parker 9 9 5 5 9 9 3 3 4 Dr Martin Read 6 6 4 4 2 2 Pat Zito 8 9 5 5 8 9 3 3 1 Former directors 6 Jean-Claude Guez 2 2 1 1 7 Steve Hare 1 1 6 Martin Jay 2 2 1 1 1 Details of meetings of the Contracts Committee are dealt with separately on page 33.
2 Mr Henriksson was not entitled to attend one Board meeting as it related to a remuneration matter in which he had a conflict of interest.
3 Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 1 June 2009.
4 Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 18 July 2009.
5 Attendance at meetings from date of appointment on 1 January 2010.
6 Attendance at meetings to date of retirement on 17 July 2009.
7 Attendance at meetings to date of resignation effective 31 May 2009.
Meetings Performance evaluation There is an agreed schedule of Board and committee meetings.
The Board has a formal review process that covers an evaluation The table above sets out the attendance by directors at Board of the performance ofthe Board and its committees, and an and committee meetings.
This analysis includes the committee appraisal of the performance of individual directors including members attendance at meetings, but does not include the Chairman.
attendance of other directors by invitation of the respective In respect of the individual evaluations, all members of the Board committee chairman.
There were also informal meetings of the are asked to assess themselves and provide feedback on other Chairman and the non-executive directors without the executive directors.
The evaluations are led as indicated below.
Board member 2009 10 evaluation led by Election and re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association require that any director Chairman Senior Independent Director appointed during the year should stand for election at the first Senior Independent Director and Chairman Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
In other non-executive directors addition, the Articles of Association require that one third of all directors shall retire at each AGM and that all directors must seek Executive directors Chairman and non-executive re-election at least once every three years.
directors The biographies of all directors, including those whom the Board recommends for election or re-election, are set out on page 7.
For the evaluation of the Board and its committees, directors are required to complete a questionnaire and provide comments on Company Secretary procedures and effectiveness.
The process involves assessment The Company Secretary is Victoria Hull, who is also Chief Legal by reference to the relevant roles and responsibilities under Officer.
She was appointed as Company Secretary on 1 January review, the terms of reference of the committees, and best 2006 and acts as secretary to all of the committees of the Board.
Results of the evaluation provide a basis for the The Company Secretary is accountable to the Board and advises continuing improvement in the Boards procedures, action on corporate governance matters.
She ensures that the Board plans and objectives for the following year.
The Board is receives briefings on changes in regulation and law, and that satisfied that each director is committed to his role and that procedures are followed.
To enable the Board to perform its the Board and each of its committees remain effective.
duties, all directors have full and timely access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is decided upon by the Board as a whole.
| 32 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Induction and development Groups Investor Relations team.
During the year a report was On appointment, new directors receive an induction programme commissioned from an external advisory firm to solicit external tailored to their specific requirements based on their experience.
views on the Company from major shareholders.
The Chairman The objective is to provide directors with a combination of and the Senior Independent Director are available to meet selected written information and the opportunity to visit business with major shareholders on request.
The Chairman of the sites and meet with key leaders of the Group.
Accordingly, an Remuneration Committee also meets with major shareholders induction programme was developed for Francesco Caio, Paul to discuss matters relating to changes in remuneration policy.
Lester and Dr Martin Read, who were appointed during the year.
Shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Dr Read as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee also met Group during the course of the year through half-yearly and with advisers and major shareholders.
preliminary results, interim management statements and other The continuing development of the directors, collectively and announcements of material developments that are released individually, is effected through a number of channels.
Independent through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
professional advisers are made available in order for directors to The results presentations made to the investment community are discuss matters of significance to the Group, and directors are webcast and copies of supporting material made available on the encouraged to attend external briefings.
The Board ensures that Groups website.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer directors have access to independent professional advice on how maintain regular dialogue with the major institutional shareholders to discharge their responsibilities as directors of the Company.
and participate in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company at any time by contacting the Directors conflicts of interest Investor Relations team, whose contact details are listed on the In line with the Companies Act 2006, directors are required to Groups website.
avoid any situation in which they have or can have a direct or The annual report and accounts are made available to indirect interest that conflicts or may possibly conflict with the shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
Directors interests of the Company, unless authorised by the Board.
The are available at the AGM to answer questions, which provides a Companys Articles of Association were amended in 2008 to allow useful interface with private shareholders.
Shareholders also have the Board to authorise such conflicts and to impose such limits or an opportunity to meet informally with directors after the meeting.
conditions as it deems necessary.
There is no breach of duty if the Resolutions are proposed separately and voting is conducted by relevant matter has been authorised in advance.
polls at general meetings, and voting results are announced The Company has established a procedure whereby actual and through the London Stock Exchange.
The results and proxy levels potential conflicts of interest are reviewed regularly, and in any are also available on the Groups website and on request from the event annually.
Appropriate authorisation is required prior to the Company Secretary.
The Company is permitted under its Articles appointment of any new director, and when any new conflict arises of Association to send or supply communications to shareholders for a director or there is a change in circumstances that may affect electronically, and the Company now supplies information such an authorisation previously given.
Authorisations are granted by as notices of meetings, forms of proxy and annual reports and those directors who have no interest in the matter being considered accounts via the Groups website.
Shareholders are notified by and are recorded by the Company Secretary in the Register of email or post when new information is available on the website.
Where there is a conflict, the Board will The Company sends hard copy communications to those confirm whether any conditions should be imposed under the shareholders who have requested them.
Shareholders may at any terms of the authorisation.
time revoke a previous instruction and elect to receive hard copies or electronic copies of shareholder information.
During the year the Board considers the procedure was operated effectively.
Remuneration Committee report Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies, together Board committees with information on the remuneration and share interests of The Board delegates specific authorities to its Nominating directors, are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 38 Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and to 50.
The Remuneration Report should be read in conjunction Contracts Committee, all of which operate within defined terms of with this Corporate Governance report, of which it forms an reference.
Board committees are authorised to engage the services integral part.
of external advisers as circumstances require, at the Companys expense.
Contracts Committee report Reports of the Board committees are set out from this page to The Contracts Committee was established in September 2008 page 37.
Directors receive copies of all committee minutes and to review certain tenders and contracts falling within the Boards the chairman of each committee provides an update on matters of terms of reference and due for submission to clients in the period significance at the Board meeting following the committee meeting.
when there is no scheduled Board meeting to consider them.
Meetings of the Contracts Committee must comprise at least one Communication with shareholders but preferably both executive directors, the Chairman or in his Communication with shareholders is at all times given a high place the Senior Independent Director and any other nonpriority, and a number of means are used to promote greater executive director.
The terms of reference for the Contracts understanding and dialogue with the investment community.
The Committee are available on the Groups website.
The Contracts Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and the Committee met on five occasions during the year.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee report Members Meetings Bay Green Chairman Details of the meetings held during the year by the Audit Francesco Caio Committee and of members attendance are detailed on Michael Parker page 32.
Pat Zito Role and activities The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are non-executive directors of the Company and has been chaired available on the Groups website.
Set out below are the by Bay Green since December 2006.
Mr Green is a qualified Audit Committees responsibilities and the main activities chartered accountant and fellow of the Institute of Chartered undertaken during the year.
Accountants of England and Wales and, with over 30 years in financial roles, he is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Combined Code.
He has held a number of senior positions in Dresdner Kleinwort and is a specialist adviser to the Wholesale and Institutional Markets Business Unit of the Financial Services Authority.
Francesco Caio became a member of the Audit Committee on 18 July 2009.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities during the year Monitoring the integrity of the Groups Financial The Audit Committee reviewed the financial disclosures in the Statements and reviewing significant financial reporting Groups Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly financial issues and accounting policies report prior to their publication.
This included a review of the accounting policies and financial reporting judgements.
It also reviewed the contents of the interim management statements issued by the Company.
Reviewing the Groups systems of internal control and risk In accordance with the Turnbull 2005 guidance and on behalf management, and monitoring the effectiveness of the of the Board, the Audit Committee undertook an annual internal audit function assessment of the Groups system of internal control.
Included in the assessment were: consideration of the key risks facing the divisions as part of the review of the Groups strategic planning and annual operating planning processes, and the review of reports from the Risk Committee: review of the enhancements to the overall control environment: consideration of the key elements of the Groups control processes, including organisational structure, the application of governance rules and systems, information management including monthly reporting routines and risk management activities: reports received from both internal and external audit during the course of the year: review of the operations and effectiveness of internal audit and receipt of regular reports on projects undertaken: and the findings from the annual self-assessment questionnaire, which requires all senior managers, from reporting unit level upwards, to certify compliance with the Groups financial andoperational procedures and controls, including environmental, health and safety matters and the Invensys Code of Conduct.
The Audit Committee monitored the Groups whistle-blowing programme as set out on page 36.
| 34 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Responsibilities of the Audit Committee Activities during the year Making recommendations to the Board on the The Audit Committee recommended to the Board the appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the 2010 AGM.
The including non-audit services of the external auditor basis of recommendation to the Board for the reappointment is described below.
The external audit plan and fee proposal were approved, along with the terms of engagement for the year.
The Audit Committee also agreed the policy on auditor independence and provision of non-audit services.
Review annually its terms of reference The terms of reference were reviewed without change.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the performance of the As detailed on page 32 an evaluation was conducted during Audit Committee the year.
Accountability and audit External auditor Financial reporting Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor since October The Group has comprehensive planning and financial reporting 1999, following the merger of Siebe and BTR in February 1999.
Management prepares detailed operational budgets Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise, for the year ahead and a three-year strategic plan, which are resources and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness reviewed and approved by the Board.
Performance is monitored of the audit process.
The assessment as to effectiveness is through the monthly reporting of financial results and regular conducted through an external audit questionnaire with senior updating of forecasts for the year.
The Group Accounting Policies finance management.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied Manual is used by all businesses in the Group to ensure that with these aspects of the audit service.
transactions and balances are recognised and measured in Consistent with market practice, Ernst & Young LLPs audit services accordance with the Groups prescribed accounting policies.
All to the Group are provided annually through terms of engagement businesses submit their results using the Groups consolidation which are reviewed by the Audit Committee.
These terms do not system, which ensures that information is gathered and presented include any contractual obligations under which the directors in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the would be prevented from appointing a different firm.
Following consideration of these matters at a meeting of the Audit Internal control Committee in May 2010, a unanimous recommendation was made The directors are responsible for the establishment and to the Board for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the maintenance of an effective system of internal control.
Each of Companys external auditor to be proposed to shareholders at the the Groups divisions is accountable to the Chief Executive and 2010 AGM.
The Audit Committee makes an assessment from time is managed by executive leadership, which provides day-to-day to time on whether there would be any benefit from a change in control over the divisions operations within the strategic auditor or a competitive tendering process.
guidelines and delegated authorities determined by the Board.
The Audit Committee has guidelines to ensure that the The internal control system is designed to meet the Groups independence of Ernst & Young LLP, as the auditor of the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed, but it should Financial Statements, is not impaired by providing non-audit be appreciated that, however effective a system of internal control services.
These guidelines govern the provision of non-audit is, it can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance services by Ernst & Young LLP by identifying certain non-audit against material misstatement or loss.
services that the auditor is prohibited from providing.
The engagements for non-audit services that are not prohibited are subject to formal approval based on the level of fees involved, with some services being covered by a pre-approval process with a quarterly cap.
In respect of such non-audit services, the Audit Committee takes into account the cost-effectiveness of the firm and their knowledge of the Group.
Services and fees are reported to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
Details of the amounts paid to Ernst & Young LLP as external auditor during the year for audit and other services are set out in Note 5 to the Group Financial Statements.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Corporate Governance continued The findings of the annual assessment of the Groups system of Internal audit internal controls undertaken by the Audit Committee, as detailed Internal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the on page 34, were presented to the Board.
Areas for improvement Audit Committee, and its responsibilities include the examination were identified and actions are in hand to improve the relevant and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the Groups control procedures.
The Board is satisfied that the information system of internal control.
The audit plan is constructed to cover that it received throughout the year on internal controls and the Invensys globally over a fouryear cycle, with a degree of tailoring information from the annual assessment on internal controls were to address specific risk concerns.
During the year, Internal Audit sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups reported regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of system of internal controls.
internal control issues arising in the course of its Internal Audit reviews of the Groups operations.
As detailed earlier in this report, Risk management the Audit Committee provides a consolidated review to assist the The Board has established a structured approach to identifying, Board in undertaking its own annual review of internal control.
evaluating, managing, monitoring, and reporting on key risks In light of the changing nature of the Groups business, the facing the Group.
geographic spread of operations and the need for certain The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk specialist audit resources e. g. IT, the majority of internal audit management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board work is outsourced to Deloitte LLP.
A small Internal Audit function, through the Audit Committee.
It also monitors the mitigating reporting to the Senior Vice President Business Risk, has been actions put in place by the relevant operational managers to retained to manage the outsourcing contract and undertake address the identified risks.
The risk management process is certain ad hoc assignments.
outlined in Risks and Uncertainties on page 28.
Whistle-blowing The Senior Vice President Business Risk chairs the Risk Committee, The Audit Committee reviews arrangements under which and its meetings are attended by the Chief Executive, the Chief employees can, on a confidential basis, raise concerns about Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary, potential irregularities, and the arrangements for follow-up the Chief Human Resources Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, actions.
A helpline is operated by Global Compliance Services the Chief of Staff and the Vice President Risk Management and Inc, an independent company, and is publicised to employees Insurance.
During the year, its activities have included reviewing through the Invensys Code of Conduct.
As part of the new the Groups risk framework which tracks the principal risks and Compliance Programme the helpline is being more heavily uncertainties faced by the Group across its businesses, reviewing promoted across the Group and made more accessible to the development and implementation of the Groups new employees.
Compliance Programme, and assessing a report produced by an external party which reviewed the Risk Committee function and its Any investigations are undertaken by the Vice President of risk monitoring processes.
A summary of the principal risks facing Compliance and any material investigations are brought to the the Group is presented on pages 29 to 30. immediate attention of the Audit Committee, which determines appropriate follow-up actions.
Statistics on the volume and general nature of calls are reported annually to the Audit Committee and the Board.
In addition, employees can raise concerns through other means such as electronic or postal mail sent to the Board or management, which correspondence is investigated in the same manner as concerns raised through the helpline.
The Board receives regular updates on compliance issues at Board meetings from the Chief Legal Officer.
No material issues were reported through these processes during the year.
| 36 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Nominating Committee report Members Meetings Sir Nigel Rudd Chairman Details of the meetings held during the year by the Nominating Bay Green Committee and members attendance are detailed on page 32.
Ulf Henriksson Michael Parker Role and activities Dr Martin Read The terms of reference for the Nominating Committee are Pat Zito available on the Groups website.
Set out below are the Nominating Committees responsibilities and the main activities Martin Jay was the former Chairman of the Nominating Committee undertaken during the year.
until his retirement on 17 July 2009.
The Nominating Committee is now chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, the Chairman.
Dr Martin Read joined the Nominating Committee on 18 July 2009.
Responsibilities of the Nominating Committee Activities during the year Reviewing the composition and size of the Board and its As part of its annual strategy meeting, the Nominating committees Committee agreed that in the context of the Groups strategy and its stage of development, the Board had the appropriate blend of skills and experience.
Making recommendations to the Board for the The Nominating Committee conducted a search for a new appointment, reappointment and retirement of directors non-executive director.
An external firm assisted with this search, which resulted in Paul Lester being nominated and appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
Consider succession planning Succession planning for all of the senior executive team was considered as part of the Nominating Committees annual strategy meeting.
Review annually its terms of reference The terms of reference were revised without material changes.
Make recommendations to the Board regarding the The provisions regarding election and re-election are set out election and re-election of directors at the AGM on page 32.
Following evaluation and recommendation by the Nominating Committee, it was agreed that Francesco Caio, Paul Lester and Dr Martin Read would stand for election at the 2010 AGM, and Ulf Henriksson and Pat Zito would be proposed for re-election.
Conduct an annual evaluation of the performance of the As detailed on page 32 an evaluation was conducted during Nominating Committee the year.
The Corporate Governance report was approved by the Board of directors on 23 May 2010 and signed on its behalf by Victoria Hull Chief Legal Officer and Company Secretary | Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37
