53 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Audit Committee report Governance Financial statements Committee overview Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors.
The current members are: John Ormerod Chairman Mike Clasper Andy Haste appointed 27 September 2010 John Ormerod was appointed as Chairman on 1 January 2010.
Archie Norman was appointed to the Committee on 2 February 2010 and stepped down on 31 December 2010.
Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on page 52.
The Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least one member of Dear Shareholder, the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considered this requirement during 2010, and concluded that the wide On the following pages we set out the Audit Committees report for range of business and financial experience of the Committee members 2010.
The report comprises four sections: as a whole, gained at the highest level of UK FTSE 100 companies and Committee overview: other blue-chip organisations, was sufficient to enable the Committee to fulfil its terms of reference in a robust and independent manner.
Activities in 2010: Biographical details of the members of the Committee including their Auditors: and qualifications are set out on pages 46 and 47.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director, Group Financial Controller, Throughout 2010 the Audit Committee the Committee continued Head of Internal Audit Deloitte, external auditors KPMG and to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, representatives of senior management regularly attend Committee to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys meetings.
The Committee as a whole has the opportunity to internal control and risk management systems, and to review meet privately with the internal and external auditors prior to arrangements for its employees to raise concerns in confidence.
The Committee has also been responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and making Role recommendations to the Board in relation to the re-appointment and The role of the Committee is to: remuneration of the Companys external auditor.
monitor the integrity of the consolidated and parent company During the year the Committee reviewed the results of a financial statements: fundamental review of the Groups risk management process.
Changes are being implemented to sharpen the focus on key risks review the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management assisting the Board to identify the changing risks faced by the Group: systems: to establish the Groups risk appetite: and through internal audit and review the arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in other procedures to monitor the risk management processes.
confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or The Committee works to a structured programme of activities with other matters: agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the function: and Committee is required to consider regularly.
consider and make recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Committee reports regularly to the Board on its work.
appointment, re-appointment, replacement and remuneration of the Companys external auditor.
John Ormerod Chairman, Audit Committee 2 March 2011 54 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Audit Committee report continued Activities in 2010 Auditors The Committees activities during the year included: Independence and objectivity reviewing the Groups financial statements including the format and The Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided to layout of the detailed disclosures : the Group by its external auditor, and has developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity which is reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, available in full on the Companys website at www.
com reviewing key judgements and estimates and considering related accounting treatments in specific areas such as revenue recognition: The policy is based on the five key principles which underpin the assumptions underlying the quantification of pension scheme provision of other services by the external auditor.
These are that the liabilities: impairment of goodwill and other assets and provisions for auditor may not provide a service which: taxation and other liabilities: places them in a position to audit their own work: reviewing the analysis supporting the carrying value of goodwill: creates a mutuality of interest: reviewing the Groups cash flow forecasts and facilities to support the results in the auditor developing close personal relationships with ITV going concern statement in the annual report.
The going concern employees: statement is set out on page 75: results in the auditor functioning as a manager or employee of ITV: or reviewing and approving the annual external audit process, the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, considering the puts the auditor in the role of advocate for ITV.
findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had The Committee has pre-approved the categories of other services that been satisfactorily resolved: may be performed by the external auditor and explicitly set out the reviewing the management letter arising from the 2009 year-end categories of work that they may not perform.
For this purpose auditing external audit and monitoring implementation of recommended the accounts of subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation and improvements: other services that generally only the auditor can reasonably provide are regarded as audit services.
monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditor.
Further information is given in the The auditors are eligible for selection to provide non-audit services only to Auditors section: the extent that their skills and experience make them a competitive and most appropriate supplier of these services.
approving the internal audit plan, considering internal audit reports, the actions taken to implement the recommendations made in those The Committee believes that a 1:1 ratio for the annual split between reports and the status of progress against previously agreed actions: audit and other fees charged by the external auditor is important.
However, it is also of the view this should not act as a hard ceiling on nonreviewing the internal audit relationship with Deloitte with agreement audit fees but as a guide that may be exceeded from time to time to to continue on this basis for a further 12 months and reviewing ensure flexibility so that the Company receives the best and most procedures to ensure appropriate independence is maintained: appropriate advice.
Non-audit services will be subject to market tenders reviewing the results of a fundamental review of the Groups risk or tests and will be awarded to the most appropriate provider.
Approval management processes: is required from the Committee Chairman for any engagement of the external auditor where the fee is likely to be in excess of 0.1 million.
continuing to monitor the implementation of the integrated finance A report on the level of non-audit work provided by the auditor is given processes and system: to the Committee half-yearly.
reviewing the effectiveness of the whistleblowing process through Details of the related audit and other services are set out in note 2.1 of which the employees may, in confidence, raise concerns: the consolidated financial statements.
The significant engagements are reviewing processes for the prevention of bribery and fraud: categorised as follows: receiving reports from the Treasury department on their tax restructuring work in relation to overseas subsidiaries: and activities: and reviewing indirect and payroll tax controls and processes.
considering regulatory and professional developments in respect of The senior audit partner and the independent reviewing partner serve no financial accounting and reporting.
more than five years continuously in either role and other key partners serve no longer than seven consecutive years.
The Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff.
Performance The Committee performs a specific evaluation of the performance of the external auditor annually, through assessment of the results of questionnaires completed by relevant senior management in addition to committee members own views of auditor performance.
It is the Companys policy to carry out periodic market testing either through benchmarking or a form of audit tender.
Re-appointment During the year the Committee considered the tenure KPMG Audit Plc has been ITVs auditor since 2004, performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non-audit work undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in May 2010.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc was re-appointed for a further year.
55 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing the Groups systems of internal control.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these systems is delegated to management.
Such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: Strategy and financial reporting: the strategy is reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Group performs a comprehensive annual strategy review and five-year financial planning exercise.
The five-year plan feeds into the annual budget cycle.
The executive directors review the detailed budgets, strategies and action plans and the Board approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, with actual results compared to budget and forecasts and key trends and variances explained and analysed.
Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: the Group has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures, and approval limits in respect of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, investment and treasury transactions were reviewed during the year in line with new board structures shown on page 48.
Risk assessment and management: management is responsible for identifying the risks facing the business and for establishing controls and procedures to monitor and mitigate those risks.
The Board is responsible for establishing a robust risk management process and for regularly reviewing the identified risks.
The Committee keeps the effectiveness of the process under regular review.
Details on the Companys key risks can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Control environment: financial controls, policies and procedures are considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process.
These controls are reviewed to ensure risks are identified and the processes and procedures are in accordance with and aligned to the strategy.
The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, reporting to both the Management Board and the Committee.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: controls are monitored by senior management, internal audit and the Committee.
Directors of each business team are required annually to confirm compliance with internal control in their area.
Remedial plans are put in place where controls are weak or there are opportunities for improvement.
Serious control weaknesses if any are reported to the Board and actions taken as appropriate.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
The Committee members are subject to the programme of continuing professional development that applies to the full board.
Approval The Audit Committee report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2011 and signed on its behalf by John Ormerod.
