66 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Other governance and statutory disclosures Substantial shareholdings Creditor payment policy As at 2 March 2011 the Company had received notifications from The Companys policy, in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle the the following companies and institutions of the voting interests of terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction, ensure themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share awareness of the terms and to abide by those terms provided that capital carrying rights to vote in all circumstances of the Company it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in numbers of shares and percentage interests are as at the accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Company does notification dates.
not follow any code or standard payment practice.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Company as at 31 December Shares % 2010 was nil days 2009: nil.
170,580,317 4.39 Blackrock, Inc. 429,509,856 11.04 Pension Scheme indemnities Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 275,411,157 7.08 Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in section 1 Sky Holdings Ltd 291,684,730 7.50 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year Legal and General Investment ended 31 December 2010 and remain in force for the benefit of each Management Ltd 153,692,144 3.95 of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, an associated company of ITV plc.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted Notes: by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of ITV 1 Subsidiary of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
2 A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 115.
Audit Share capital The directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Issued: At the date of this report there were 3,889,129,751 ordinary report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each on the London Stock Exchange.
Further details of the movements in the director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a director in authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the year are order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and set out on page 113. to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will be Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
com or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Annual General Meeting Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, 11 May 2011 in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed at 11.00 am at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad by law from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Annual Transparency rules, certain employees are required to seek approval General Meeting contains an explanation of special business to be to deal in ITV shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements considered at the meeting.
A copy of the Notice will be available between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of on the Companys website at www.
securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company By order of the Board carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Companys Articles of Association Andrew Garard may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Company Secretary 2 March 2011 Purchase of own shares: The directors have the authority to purchase up to 388.9 million of the Companys ordinary shares.
The authority ITV plc remains valid until the 2011 Annual General Meeting, or 6 August 2011 The London Television Centre if earlier.
Upper Ground London SE1 9LT Trusts: The Company has a discretionary trust funded by loans to Registered number 4967001 acquire shares for the potential benefit of employees of the Group.
Details of shares held by the trust at 31 December 2010 are set out in Documents for corporate governance note 4.7.
During the year shares have been released from the trust in respect of share schemes for employees.
The trust waives the right to The following documents are available on the Companys website dividends payable on those shares held by the trust that are not subject at www.
com: to any share plan operated by the Company where participants are Terms of engagement for non-executive directors: the beneficial but not registered owners of shares.
Schedule of matters reserved to the Board: Change of control Terms of reference for the Audit, Disclosure, General Purpose, All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a Nomination and Remuneration Committees: change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally Auditors Independence Policy: vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Certain of the Groups Guidelines for seeking independent advice: bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the Directors indemnity: and issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of any other significant agreements Terms of reference for remuneration consultants.
to which it is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
