48 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance Leadership Board structure Set out below is an outline of the governance structure at ITV.
Formal Board Committees ITV plc Board General Purpose Remuneration Audit Nomination Disclosure ITV Management Board Dear Shareholder, The Board of ITV takes corporate governance within the organisation ITV Studios Board ITV Broadcasting Board seriously and follows the main principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
On the following pages we set out ITVs Governance policy.
The report comprises the following sections: Leadership: Details of membership of the ITV Management Board can be found on our website at www.
The Board has approved a formal How the Board operates: framework for approval of expenditure within the Company around this Effectiveness: governance framework.
Relations with shareholders: Composition and appointments Audit Committee report: and The composition of the Board during 2010 is set out in the table on Remuneration report.
Our aim is to ensure that shareholders are given the information they The Board currently consists of two executive directors and five nonneed to decide whether the management and the Board are being executive directors.
Biographical details for each of the directors are set effective.
During 2010 ITV plc complied with the requirements of the Combined During the year we made the following changes to the Board: Code on Corporate Governance the Code with one exception C. 3.1.
Archie Norman, Adam Crozier and Lucy Neville-Rolfe were appointed I was appointed a member of the Audit Committee on 2 February to the Board with effect from 1 January 2010, 26 April 2010 and 2010 to enable the Committee to remain quorate until Andy Haste 3 September 2010 respectively: and took up membership.
I stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 31 December 2010.
Baroness Usha Prashar, John Cresswell and Rupert Howell stepped down from the Board with effect from 31 March 2010, 23 April 2010 From 1 January 2011 ITV plc has followed the requirements of the UK and 1 June 2010 respectively.
Corporate Governance Code the New Code and will continue to do so during 2011.
The Board has decided that due to recent changes John Ormerod completed three years as a non-executive director in to the structure of the Board the requirement for annual election of January 2011.
It was agreed that he should serve a further term subject Board members B.
7.1 will not be put in place in 2011. to the Board succession planning framework.
Archie Norman 2 March 2011 49 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Roles How the Board operates A summary of the roles of each of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Meetings and the Senior Independent Director are shown in the table below.
Full job descriptions have been agreed by the Board.
The number of meetings held during the year and attendance of directors is set out in the table on page 52.
The Board approves annually Role Description a schedule of matters to be considered at each meeting and at each meeting of its committees.
Meetings are normally held in London and Chairman Archie Normans principal responsibilities are to: when appropriate at different regional offices.
lead the Board, ensuring that it is effective in Board meetings are structured around the following areas: setting and implementing the Groups direction and strategy: and operational and functional updates: act as the Companys leading representative for all financial updates: key shareholders.
strategy and risk: and The Board is satisfied that his other professional other reporting.
commitments do not interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
Senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
Chief Executive Adam Crozier has responsibility for the performance of Some of the matters scheduled for consideration in 2011 include: the Companys businesses, as dictated by the overall strategy agreed by the Board.
strategy for international content business: strategy for news: and Senior Mike Clasper was appointed as Senior Independent Independent Director on 1 January 2010.
His principal responsibilities strategy for the schedule, commissioning and brands.
Director are to: Meetings between the Chairman and non-executive directors are act as Chairman of the Board when the Chairman scheduled on the annual board programme to formally discuss is conflicted: governance issues.
The Chief Executive is sometimes invited to attend.
act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns when Responsibility and delegation other channels are inappropriate: and Specific responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective the Board.
setting long-term objectives and corporate strategy and approving an annual budget: approving major acquisitions: approving major divestments and capital expenditure: approving appointments to the Board: reviewing systems of internal control and risk management: and approving policies relating to directors remuneration.
The matters reserved to the Board are available on our website at www.
com 50 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued Board Committees The current membership of each committee other than the Disclosure Committee is set out below: The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its committees General Purpose Remuneration Audit Nomination detailed on the following pages.
The terms of reference for each committee are reviewed annually and the current versions are available Mike Clasper on the Companys website at www.
com Adam Crozier General Purpose Committee: the Committee is comprised of the Ian Griffiths executive directors.
The Committee meets as required to conduct the Andy Haste Companys business within the clearly defined limits delegated by the Lucy Neville-Rolfe Board and subject to those matters reserved to the Board.
Archie Norman Remuneration Committee: see the Remuneration report on page 56.
John Ormerod Audit Committee: see the Audit Committee report on page 53.
Denotes Chairman Nomination Committee: The Committee is comprised of the Internal Control non-executive directors.
The Board is required to review, at least annually, all material internal Archie Norman became Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2010 controls including financial, operational, and compliance controls and risk and Lucy Neville-Rolfe joined the Committee on 27 September 2010. management systems.
The Board has conducted a review of the Full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls for the year table on page 52. ended 31 December 2010.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied with the internal control requirements of the Code throughout Role: the role of the Committee is to: the year, maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and review the structure, size and composition of the Board: minimising risk.
Further information is set out in the Audit Committee report on page 55. identify and nominate for Board approval, candidates to fill board vacancies: Board tenure evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be the Board: elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM consider succession planning for directors and other senior following their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all directors executives: and are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
consider any conflicts of interest that may be reported by directors The graph below shows the current balance of the Board.
During 2010 these tasks were undertaken by the full Board.
The Board 0-2 years intends to resume the normal Nomination Committee programme in 1 2-4 years 2011.
4-6 years 3 Disclosure Committee: the Committee is comprised of certain senior management of the Company.
The function of the Committee, 3 in accordance with the Companys Inside Information Policy, is to ensure compliance with continuing obligations under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules through the timely public disclosure of material information.
Succession planning and diversity The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to ensure that: board tenure is appropriate and encourages fresh thinking and new ideas: the Board is sufficiently diverse and has the appropriate mix of generalist and specialist skills: and non-executive directors have the appropriate level of independence, from the executive and each other.
Outside appointments With the approval of the Board, executive directors as part of their professional development may accept external appointments as nonexecutive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Details of fees received by executive directors during 2010 can be found in the Remuneration report on page 61.
51 Overview Strategy & operations Performance & financials Responsibility Governance Financial statements Non-executive directors Effectiveness The Board considers each of its current non-executive directors to be Induction and continuing professional development independent in both character and judgement.
They constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, and bring The Company has a policy and programme for induction and continuing strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the professional development.
On appointment, each director takes part in a Boards deliberations.
comprehensive induction programme where they: The Board also considers that the non-executive directors are of receive information about the Group in the form of presentations by sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight executives from all parts of the business and on the regulatory in the Boards decision making.
Each brings skills and experience in environment: different aspects.
meet representatives of the Companys key advisers: Terms of engagement: non-executive directors all have a contract of receive information about the role of the Board and the matters service, and are appointed for an initial period of three years.
At the reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of third anniversary of appointment the director will discuss with the board committees and the powers delegated to those committees: Board whether it is appropriate for a further term to be served, subject to the Board succession planning framework which provides that any receive information about the Companys corporate governance further term may be adjusted in length should that be in the interests practices and procedures and the latest financial information about of an orderly succession of non-executive directors to the Board.
the Group: and The re-appointment of directors who have served for more than are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director nine years will be subject to annual review.
An outline of the terms of of a listed company.
engagement can be found on our website at www.
com This is supplemented by visits to key locations, including studios and Time commitment: non-executive directors are expected to commit regional sites, and meetings with key senior executives and with major 18 to 20 days per annum.
The Board is satisfied that each of the shareholders where appropriate.
non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
During their period in office, the directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the competitive and regulatory environments in Professional advice and Board support which they operate.
This is done through: Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the regular updates on changes affecting the Group and the market in Companys expense when the directors deem it necessary in order for which it operates through written briefings and meetings with senior them to carry out their responsibilities.
The directors also have access to executives across the Group and from meetings with key advisers: the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who acts as secretary regular updates on changes to the legal and governance to the Board, and Group Secretariat who ensure that board processes requirements of the Group and in relation to their own position and corporate governance practices are followed.
as directors: and Insurance and indemnities presentations given at board and committee meetings on business matters and technical update sessions from external advisers where The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers appropriate.
which is renewed on an annual basis.
The Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors.
A copy of the indemnity can be The Chairman addresses the development needs of the Board as a found on our website at www.
com whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness.
He ensures that the directors professional development needs are identified and that Conflicts of interest they are adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as directors.
The Board is authorised to approve conflicts.
It has delegated the authorisation of conflicts to the Nomination Committee and has adopted a Conflicts of Interest Policy.
The policy outlines how conflicts will be dealt with and the process for directors to follow when notifying the Company of an actual or potential conflict.
When deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest, only those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision.
In addition, the Nomination Committee will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation where appropriate.
The Board has considered in detail the current external appointments of the directors which may give rise to a situational conflict and has authorised potential conflicts where appropriate.
This authorisation can be reviewed at any time but will always be subject to annual review.
The Board is confident that these procedures operate effectively.
52 ITV plc Report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Relations with shareholders The Board has established a formal process for the annual evaluation of The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with the performance of the Board, its committees, and individual directors shareholders.
In addition to the final and interim results presentations with particular attention given to those who are due for re-election.
The and the AGM, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders directors are made aware on appointment that their performance will be and senior management were held throughout 2010.
The Chairman subject to an annual evaluation and that a director would not be put up gave feedback to the Board on issues raised with him by major for re-election at an AGM unless the Chairman has decided that they shareholders.
This process will continue throughout 2011. continue to perform effectively and show commitment to the role.
The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide range The evaluation is focused around board processes, board roles and of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
responsibilities, board culture and committee roles and processes.
The Company has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance both following Some of the actions taken during the year resulting from the 2009 the Companys announcements and in response to individual evaluation include: ad hoc requests.
Objectives Achievements Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board will Review content of board papers for Finance reports and management reports attend the AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during presentation and clarity of issues have all been refined the meeting and to meet with directors prior to and after the formal Review the balance of time spent Annual board programme has been proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman will review the Groups on strategic and routine business reviewed and refined current trading.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related Ensure sufficient board succession Succession planning will be considered documents, is made available to shareholders on the Companys planning in place further during 2011 website or mailed to them, if they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are During 2010 the Board changed significantly and a formal external proposed on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting all evaluation was not considered appropriate.
However, an informal internal resolutions are taken on a poll.
The level of votes lodged on a resolution evaluation of the effectiveness of the individual directors and of the is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Board and its committees was carried out by the Chairman and Senior Companys website at www.
The Company regularly seeks feedback on perception of the Company The quality of papers circulated and presentations made to the Board amongst its shareholders and the investor community more broadly via has improved significantly allowing more time for discussion and its corporate brokers.
The Company considers annually whether it is debate.
The Board are satisfied that questions are answered honestly appropriate to commission an investor audit.
Details of the AGM are set out page 66 and shareholder information can be found on page 115.
Board and Committee membership, and attendance at meetings in 2010 Attendance in 2010 Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Date of appointment Status Notes to Board 8 6 5 Current directors Mike Clasper Independent and SID 3 January 2006 8 6 5 Adam Crozier Executive 26 April 2010 5 Ian Griffiths Executive 9 September 2008 8 Andy Haste Independent 1 11 August 2008 7 3 5 Lucy Neville-Rolfe Independent 3 September 2010 2 Archie Norman Independent 2, 3 1 January 2010 8 5 5 John Ormerod Independent 18 January 2008 8 6 4 Date of resignation Directors who stepped down from Board and in the year Committees John Cresswell Executive 16 January 2006 23 April 2010 3 Rupert Howell Executive 28 February 2008 1 June 2010 4 Baroness Usha Prashar Independent 4 7 February 2005 31 March 2010 1 1 Notes: 1 Missed one board meeting due to an RSA board meeting.
2 Independent on appointment to the Board.
3 Missed one audit committee due to unavoidable overseas commitment.
4 Missed two board meetings and one remuneration committee meeting due to involvement with the Iraq Inquiry.
