Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance Compliance The Companies Act provides that directors must avoid a situation The following sections explain how the Company applies the main where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that principles of Section 1 of the UK Combined Code on Corporate conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with a companys interests.
The Board is committed to Directors of public companies may authorise conflicts and potential strong governance practices and, during the year, the Company conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys articles of association has complied with all the provisions of the Code.
Shareholders approved the appropriate amendments to the Companys Articles at the 2008 AGM.
The Board has established The Board procedures for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts, The Board has been chaired by David Tyler since 1 November 2009 and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts following the resignation of Philip Hampton.
It consists of three by the Board.
In accordance with the Act, the Board considered and Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors in addition to authorised each Directors reported potential conflicts of interest the Chairman.
Dr John McAdam is the Senior Independent Director.
Whenever a Director takes on additional external The Directors biographical details are set out on pages 24 and 25. responsibilities, the Board considers any potential conflicts that may arise and whether the Director continues to have sufficient time to The Board is scheduled to meet eight times during the year, including fulfill his or her role as a Director of the Company.
The Board will a two-day strategy conference.
The Chairman and Non-Executive continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on Directors met during the year without the Executive Directors being a regular basis.
present, and the Non-Executive Directors also met during the year without the Executive Directors or the Chairman being present.
The Boards role The Board has a number of key responsibilities and formally reserved The Chairman powers.
It regularly considers strategic issues, key projects and David Tyler joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October major investments and monitors performance against delivery of 2009 and assumed the role of Chairman on 1 November 2009.
The the agreed key targets.
It approves the corporate plan and the annual Nomination Committee led the recruitment process as described budget.
Its objective is to create maximum value for shareholders in more detail below.
His biographical details are set out on page 24 over the long term.
and establish his broad range of experience that makes him ideal for the chairman role.
At the time of his appointment he confirmed During the year the Board received updates on the investor relations his independence and also that he had sufficient time to meet his programme and feedback from major shareholders.
It reviewed the responsibilities to the Company, particularly as he had just stood funding of the Groups pension plans and broader pension matters.
down as a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
The Board fully considered and approved the placing of new shares Since his appointment he has had an extensive induction process, and the offering of convertible bonds which successfully raised including meetings with key investors.
432 million to accelerate Sainsburys growth strategy see page 27 of the Directors Report and notes 20 on page 70 and 23 on page 75 Division of responsibilities to the financial statements for more information relating to the capital There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and raising and the Companys share capital structure.
the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the The Board reviews the Companys principal risks on an annual basis Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
He ensures in addition to receiving regular updates on risk management and effective communication with shareholders and that the Board is internal controls from the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
It also aware of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the receives an annual update on health and safety and product safety, contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive and relevant controls and governance, and any specific issues on relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The these and other matters which might affect the Companys reputation Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the are reported to the Board as they occur.
Company, and executing the strategy, once agreed by the Board.
He creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives The Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees.
to ensure the successful delivery of results, and allocates decision The Audit Committee ensures the integrity of financial information, making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a leading role, with the effectiveness of the financial controls and the internal control the Chairman, in the relationship with all external agencies and in and risk management systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets promoting Sainsburys.
the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee Independence Non-Executive Directors recommends the appointment of Directors and has responsibility for The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial evaluating the balance of the Board and for succession planning at experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are appointed Board level.
During the year the Nomination Committee led the for an initial three-year term, subject to election by shareholders at process to appoint a new chairman.
The Corporate Responsibility the first AGM after their appointment, after which their appointment CR Committee reviews key CR policies, taking into account the may be extended for a second term, subject to mutual agreement and Companys CR objectives and the overall strategic plan.
details are set out overleaf.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code on his appointment and all the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent according to the provisions of the Code.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of the Directors who have executive or non-executive roles with other companies is not compromised and that they all have sufficient time available to devote to the Company.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 29 Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance with each Director separately for in-depth discussions about the The table shows the attendance of Directors at scheduled Board and Boards role and structure, contribution to strategic planning and risk Committee meetings.
The Board scheduled eight meetings during the management, Board process and dynamics, and any emerging issues.
year and additional ad hoc conference calls were also convened to The performance of the Board Committees was also reviewed.
Some deal with specific matters which required attention between members of senior management were asked for their views.
presented the findings to the Board for discussion, identifying what was working well and areas which could be improved or approached differently.
The Board concluded that it was working effectively.
Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee The action plan from the 2009 review had been implemented and the Board was satisfied with the progress that it had made during Mike Coupe 8 8 - - - - the year.
An action plan was agreed to address the themes which Anna Ford 8 8 - 2 2 5 5 4 4 emerged from this years exercise: these included new Board Val Gooding 7 8 - - 5 5 4 4 processes, aspects of Board succession, and engagement with Philip Hampton 5 5 - - 5 5 - the wider management team and other parts of the business.
Mary Harris 8 8 4 4 2 2 5 5 - Gary Hughes 8 8 3 4 - 5 5 - The Senior Independent Director reviewed the Chairmans Justin King 8 8 - 2 2 - - performance with the other Directors and subsequently met John McAdam 8 8 4 4 - 5 5 - him to provide feedback.
The Chairman separately reviewed Darren Shapland 8 8 - - - - the contribution of each of the Directors with them.
Bob Stack 8 8 - - 5 5 4 4 David Tyler 3 3 - - - - Operating Board The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown in brackets.
Day-to-day management of the Group is delegated to the Operating Board, which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating Board held Information and development ten scheduled meetings during the year and each Directors The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are responsibilities are set out on page 26.
It has formal terms of properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they reference setting out its key responsibilities.
Minutes are copied have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise.
The Operating Board has delegated certain powers to the Trading Board, the Retail & Logistics Board, the Investment Board, the The Company has a programme for meeting Directors training and Product Safety and Health and Safety Committees and the Corporate development requirements.
Newly appointed Directors who do Responsibility Steering Group, each of which has approved terms not have previous public company experience at Board level are of reference setting out their areas of responsibility.
provided with appropriate training on their role and responsibilities.
New Directors participate in a comprehensive and tailored induction Board Committees programme including store and depot visits and meetings with The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Nomination, members of the Operating Board, senior management and external Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility and Audit Committees.
The induction programme includes a full review of corporate The Chairman of each Committee provides an in-depth report responsibility.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis to of each meeting of the respective Committee to the Board at the meet any particular needs.
During the year the Company Secretary, following Board meeting.
Tim Fallowfield, has provided updates to the Board on relevant governance matters, new legislation and on Directors duties and Nomination Committee obligations, whilst the Audit Committee regularly considers new The Nomination Committee is chaired by David Tyler and comprises accounting developments through presentations from management each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Justin King is not a member and the external auditors.
The consultants to the Remuneration of the Committee although he is invited to attend meetings.
Committee advise the Committee on relevant governance and trends in remuneration.
The Board programme includes presentations During the year the Committee led the recruitment process for from management which increase the Non-Executive Directors a new chairman after Philip Hampton informed the Board that, understanding of the business and the sector.
having completed five years as Chairman, he would be stepping down from the Board.
This process was led by by John McAdam, During the year the Board held a Board meeting at the Northampton the Senior Independent Director.
Search consultants, Egon Zehnder Depot and visited nearby sites related to Sainsburys No Waste to International, were instructed by the Committee in connection Landfill environmental initiatives.
In addition, Directors have visited with this process.
The Committee considered the skills, knowledge, stores and other sites as part of their continuing engagement with background and experience required for the role, and a job the business.
The Committee specified the time commitment expected of the role.
Following an extensive search, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the Committee recommended to the Board that David Tyler be Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures appointed as Chairman.
He was appointed to the Board on are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and 1 October 2009 and became Chairman from 1 November.
removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure by which members The Committee holds one meeting each year where it reviews of the Board may take independent professional advice at the succession planning and senior management development.
Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the website www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees Board evaluation responsibilities.
The Committee meets when necessary and in The Board agreed that this years evaluation exercise should be 2009 10 met on five occasions.
conducted by Tim Fallowfield, the Company Secretary.
Having agreed the key objectives with the Chairman, he prepared a detailed Remuneration Committee questionnaire for the Directors which followed the format of last The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack, with Anna Ford and Val Gooding as its other members.
The Remuneration Report years exercise in order to track year-on-year responses, and included additional questions relating to specific areas of focus.
He then met is set out on pages 33 to 42.
30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance Statement of corporate governance continued Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which The Committee is chaired by Anna Ford, and Justin King and Mary restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
Harris are its other members.
David Tyler attends each meeting.
It met This was reviewed during the year and is consistent with the Auditing twice during the year.
Formal meetings are supported by CR strategic Practices Boards Ethical Standards No.
meetings hosted by Anna Ford and Justin King.
Each meeting is based The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services around one of the five CR principles and key external stakeholders does not have an impact on the external auditors independence and are invited to attend.
During the year five meetings were held, relating objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the external to each of the five principles.
auditors shall not undertake, including internal audit and actuarial services relating to the preparation of accounting estimates for the The Corporate Responsibility Committee is supported by an internal financial statements, and others such as mergers and acquisitions corporate responsibility governance structure whereby members of advice that can only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Operating Board have responsibility for each of our five values the Committee Chairman or the Committee, should fees exceed and sit on our Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, which meets pre-set thresholds.
The policy also recognises that there are some quarterly and is chaired by Justin King.
Other members include: types of work, such as accounting and tax advice, where a detailed understanding of the Companys business is advantageous.
The Best for Food and Health Gwyn Burr, Customer Director Committee receives a report at each meeting on the non-audit Sourcing with Integrity Mike Coupe, Trading Director services being provided and the cumulative total of non-audit fees.
In the event that cumulative non-audit fees exceed the audit fee Respect for our Environment Neil Sachdev, Commercial Director then all subsequent non-audit expenditure must be approved by the Making a Positive Difference to our Community Roger Burnley, Committee Chairman.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken Retail and Logistics Director during 2009 10 related to the 2009 pension funding valuation.
The non-audit fees for the year were 0.5 million, and the audit fee for A Great Place to Work Imelda Walsh, Human Resources Director.
the year in respect of the Group, Company and its subsidiaries and the fee for the interim review totalled 0.8 million.
A summary of the Companys corporate responsibility priorities and activities is set out on pages 11 to 15.
This years Corporate The Committee has regularly reviewed the Internal Audit Responsibility report will be published in June 2010. departments resources, budget, work programme, results and managements implementation of its recommendations.
Karen Audit Committee Whitworth has direct access to all members of the Committee The Committee is chaired by Gary Hughes with John McAdam and including the Committee Chairman and David Tyler.
She has Mary Harris as its other members, all of whom are independent regular meetings with all Committee members.
The Board has determined that Gary Hughes has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, Justin The Committee reviewed the Companys whistleblowing procedures King, Darren Shapland, Karen Whitworth Director of Group Internal to ensure that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues and Audit, other senior members of the Finance Division and the external suppliers to raise concerns about possible improprieties on a auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
Tim Fallowfield is confidential basis.
All issues raised have been investigated and secretary to the Committee.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions, the The Company has a fraud policy and a Serious Fraud Committee, agendas being organised around the Companys reporting cycle.
which convenes in the event of serious incidents to oversee case It monitored the integrity of the financial statements and any formal management and ensure appropriate actions are taken.
The Audit announcements relating to the Companys financial performance Committee receives an update at each meeting on all material frauds.
and reviewed any significant financial judgements contained in them.
The Committee has also reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys The Committee receives an update at each meeting about matters financial controls and the systems of internal control and risk discussed at the Sainsburys Bank Audit Committee and on any other management.
Where any weaknesses were identified, the detailed key matters.
Given the economic climate it has continued to focus actions for resolution are closely monitored through to completion.
on the Banks liquidity and cash flows, capital adequacy and risk The Committee regularly meets with the external auditors without management processes.
In February 2010 a new Grocery Supply Code of Practice GSCOP The Committee also regularly reviews the Companys funding and became effective following the recommendation of the Competition liquidity position and has considered its impact on the Companys Commission.
Each grocery retailer to which it applies had to appoint financial and operational capabilities.
The Committees detailed a Code Compliance Officer whose duties include hearing disputes review of the year-end position assisted the Board in giving the between suppliers and the relevant retailer.
Sainsburys has appointed going concern statement set out on page 28. the Director of Group Internal Audit as its Code Compliance Officer.
Sainsburys has taken the necessary steps to prepare for the The Committee reviewed  LLPs PwC implementation of the GSCOP, including a comprehensive training overall work plan and approved their remuneration and terms of programme for relevant colleagues.
The Audit Committee reviewed engagement and considered in detail the results of the audit, PwCs the Companys preparations for implementation, and has certain performance and independence and the effectiveness of the overall reporting obligations to fulfil in the future under GSCOP.
The Committee recommended PwCs re-appointment as auditors to the Board and this resolution will be put to shareholders The Committees terms of reference, which are available on at the AGM.
PwC have been the Companys auditors since 1995.
co. uk governance, set out the external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner responsible Committees responsibilities.
for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
The current audit partner, who has now completed five audits, therefore ceases to be responsible for the Sainsburys audit following the AGM.
PwC have identified a successor partner who has relevant industry and FTSE100 company experience and who has been interviewed by the Chairman, Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
He is undertaking a programme of induction meetings during the Spring and Summer of 2010.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 31 Statement of corporate governance continued Internal control The risk management process is cascaded through each division The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal and consists of: controls, which is fully embedded into the operations of the Company formal identification by the management of each division of the and includes risk management.
Certain of these responsibilities have key risks to achieving their business objectives and the controls been delegated to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has in place to manage them.
This identification exercise is achieved reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and has through workshops which are facilitated by Internal Audit.
The ensured that any required remedial action has been or is being taken likelihood and potential impact of each risk is evaluated and on any identified weaknesses.
The system of internal controls has actions necessary to mitigate them are identified.
The risks and been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the the robustness of the controls mitigating them are regularly Annual Report and Financial Statements, and it accords with the reviewed by the management of each division as part of their Turnbull guidance and the Combined Code.
It is designed to manage normal business activities: and rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute certification by management that they are responsible for assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It covers all controls managing the risks to their business objectives and that the including those in relation to financial reporting processes including internal controls are such that they provide reasonable but not the preparation of consolidated accounts, operational and compliance absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility controls and risk management procedures.
It also includes the are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed.
controls over Sainsburys interests in Sainsburys Bank and the property joint ventures.
The Operating Board reviews and challenges the output from the divisional risk process and updates the overall Company risk register The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal control if deemed necessary.
Internal Audit provides independent assurance as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made, and include the following: activities described by management.
discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys strategic Investor relations direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of Justin including both revenue and capital expenditure: King, Darren Shapland and Anna Tee, Head of Investor Relations.
The Chairman is generally available to shareholders and meets with regular reviews by management of the risks to achieving objectives institutional and other large investors as required.
and actions being taken to mitigate them: regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee of the The Company regularly meets with its large investors and institutional scope and results of internal audit work across the Company and shareholders who, along with sell-side research analysts, are invited to of the implementation of recommendations.
The scope of the work presentations by the Company immediately after the announcement covers all key activities of the Company and concentrates on higher of the Companys interim and full year results.
They are also invited risk areas: to participate in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys trading statements.
The content of these presentations reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors by the and conference calls are webcast and are posted on the Companys Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: website www.
co. uk investors so as to be available to regular reviews by the Board and Audit Committee of identified all investors.
fraudulent activity and any whistleblowing by colleagues or suppliers, and actions being taken to remedy any control The Board regularly receives feedback on the views of major investors weaknesses: and the Investor Relations programme.
In addition, Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies and levels give an external analysis to the Board on the views of institutional of delegated authority: and investors and sell-side analysts.
Non-Executive Directors also receive consideration by the Board and by the Audit Committee of the regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys major risks facing the Group and of the controls and procedures Investor Relations department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at Risk management the AGM, which this year will be held on 14 July 2010.
There will be a The risk management system has been in place throughout the year display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial will make a business presentation.
A detailed explanation of each item Statements.
Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, of special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the the system is designed to identify key risks and provide assurance that Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 these risks are fully understood and managed.
It is also supported working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM by a risk policy and guidelines on how to apply the policy, which are will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows best practice guidelines and communicated throughout the Company.
The effectiveness of the enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders process is reviewed twice a year by the Audit Committee which who attend the meeting.
then reports to the Board.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors The Operating Board maintains a risk register which is regularly is set out on pages 104 to 106 and on the Companys website reviewed by the Committee and formally discussed with the Board.
The register contains the key risks facing the Company and identifies the potential impact and likelihood of the risk at both a gross pre mitigating controls and a net post mitigating controls level.
Where the net risk requires further actions, these are agreed with specific timelines.
These actions are closely monitored until they are fully implemented.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Statement of corporate governance
