CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction The board of directors Effective governance is at the core of the Companys The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that ability to operate successfully in 775 pubs in England, the Companys strategy is appropriate and implemented Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales.
Those matters reserved for the board and the established governance framework is overseen by the authorities delegated to management are contained in board of directors, which is ultimately responsible to the the matters reserved for the board schedule, as well as Companys shareholders.
in the various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal Statement of compliance matters, internal audit and risk management.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, as set out in Section 1 of the The board comprises the following members: Combined Code 2008 on Corporate Governance the Tim Martin, chairman Code, although the board believes that honesty and John Hutson, chief executive officer common sense are more important factors than Keith Down, finance director and company secretary governance codes.
The board believes that the Company Paul Harbottle, chief operating officer has been compliant throughout the year ended 25 July Su Cacioppo, personnel and legal director 2010, with the following exceptions: John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and senior non-executive director John Herring has served more than ten years on the Elizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director board and so may not be considered independent under Debra van Gene, non-executive director the Code Section A.
The board considers that his Sir Richard Beckett, non-executive director performance as a non-executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes significantly as a director John Herring continues in his role of senior independent through his individual skills, considerable knowledge and director.
In this role specifically, he is an additional contact experience of the Company and relevant financial point for shareholders, in particular where concerns of expertise.
He also continues to demonstrate strong the shareholders are unable to be resolved through independence in the manner in which he discharges his normal channels or when such channels would be responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board has inappropriate.
In this role, he also monitors the concluded that, despite his length of tenure, there is no performance of the chairman, on behalf of the board.
association with management which could compromise his independence.
John intends to offer himself annually Biographies of all non-executive and executive directors for re-election to the board.
are provided on page 52 and can be viewed on the Companys Web site: www.
co. uk During the year, the number of independent nonexecutive directors did not equal that of the executives in On appointment to the board, every director is provided the whole year under review Section A.
The board with a comprehensive induction programme, covering all considers that the collective know-how and experience aspects of the Companys operations.
Regular discussions of the independent non-executive directors, during this and meetings take place regarding the performance of the period, provided a balanced mix of skills which matched board and the performance of individual executive the needs of the business and were sufficient to ensure directors is discussed regularly by the chairman and the proper governance of the Company, which comprises an non-executives, with any training and development needs organically grown, single business, producing clear, evaluated as part of the process.
Site visits are arranged transparent results.
The board is mindful of its regularly to enable non-executive directors to see the composition and will keep this position under review.
operations of the business, at first hand.
In general, the company has noted that non compliant All directors are provided with comprehensive papers in boards of directors in the quoted pub sector, often where advance of all board meetings and attend key meetings the chief executive has become chairman, and there are regularly in the organisation.
In addition, directors attend more executive than non-executive directors, have been impromptu meetings with senior managers in the business.
more successful in avoiding recent financial excesses, than compliant boards.
Experience in the industry, common There is a clear and documented division of sense and flexibility, rather than a doctrinaire approach, responsibilities between the chairman and the chief are required by directors, in our opinion, in assessing the executive officer.
The division is set out below.
A full version of the Combined Code June 2008 is available on the official website of the Financial Reporting Council www.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans responsibility Chief executives responsibility The chairman is responsible for the smooth running of the The chief executive is responsible for the smooth daily board and ensuring that all directors are fully informed running of the business of matters relevant to their roles Delegated responsibility of authority from the Company to Developing and maintaining effective management exchange of contracts within controlled procedures controls, planning and performance measurements Providing support, advice and feedback to the Maintaining and developing an effective chief executive organisational structure Supporting the Company strategy, and encouraging the External and internal communications, in conjunction chief executive with development of that strategy with the chairman, on any issues facing the Company Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational Implementing and monitoring compliance with meetings and agreeing on board agendas and ensuring that board policies adequate time is available for discussion of agenda items Management of chief executives contract, appraisal and Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board remuneration, by way of making recommendations to the remuneration committee Providing support to executive directors and senior Recruiting and managing senior managers in managers of the Company the business Providing the ethos and vision of the Company Developing and maintaining effective risk-management and regulatory controls Providing operational presence across the estate Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders and investors Making directors aware of shareholders concerns Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the Company strategy Ensure that a culture of openness and debate exists in the Company Responsible for the leadership of the board and setting its agenda All directors are provided with, and have full and timely During the year ended 25 July 2010, non-executive access to, information which enables them to make directors met without the chairman and provided feedback informed decisions on corporate and business issues, to the chairman following their meetings.
The overall including operational and financial performance.
In effectiveness of the board was the primary topic, although particular, the board receives monthly information on the succession-planning and the provision of information to the financial trading performance of the Company and a board were also discussed.
The directors concluded that comprehensive finance report, including operational the board and its committees continue to work effectively.
All directors receive sales and margin information for the Company, weekly, by trading unit.
In accordance with the Code and corporate governance best practice, the board has several established committees The articles require that one-third of the directors retire by as set out below.
The board met eight times during the rotation, subject to the requirement that each director year ended 25 July 2010: attendance of the directors and seek re-election every three years.
non-executives, where appropriate, is shown below.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8 3 7 1 Tim Martin 7 N A N A N A John Hutson 8 N A N A N A Keith Down 8 3 N A N A Su Cacioppo 8 3 N A N A Paul Harbottle 8 N A N A N A John Herring 7 3 7 1 Elizabeth McMeikan 8 3 7 1 Debra van Gene 6 3 7 1 Sir Richard Beckett 8 2 7 1 Keith Down in his role of finance director and Su Cacioppo in her role as personnel and legal director attend audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant matters.
Sir Richard Beckett was invited to join the audit committee part way through the year.
66 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matters reserved for the board Reviews the scope and nature of the work to be The following matters are reserved for the board: performed by the external auditors, before audit commences Reviews the half-year and annual financial statements Board and management Ensures compliance with accounting standards Structure and senior management responsibilities Ensures compliance with stock exchange, legal and Nomination of directors regulatory requirements Appointment of chairman and company secretary Monitors the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the financial Strategic matters performance of the Company Strategic, financing or adoption of new business Considers the findings of the internal audit report and plans, in respect of any material aspect of the Company management responses at the half year and year end Business control Reviews the effectiveness of internal control systems Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Final review of the Companys statement on internal Internal audit control systems, before endorsement by the board Authority limits for heads of department Reviews any aspect of the accounts or the Companys control and audit procedures, the interim and final audits Operating budgets and any other matters which the auditors may consider The entry into finance and operating leases of a Ensures that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and certain capital value brought to the attention of the board Investments and capital projects exceeding set value Reviews all risk-management systems adopted and Changes in major supply contracts implemented by the Company Finance Raising new capital and confirmation of The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated major facilities by the secretary of the committee to all members of the Specific risk-management policies, including board.
At the annual general meeting of the Company, the insurance, hedging and borrowing limits audit committees chairman, John Herring, is available to Final approval of annual and interim accounts and answer questions on financial control and reporting.
accounting policies Appointment of external auditors The audit committee is aware of the Companys process regarding whistle-blowing and has reviewed its effectiveness.
Legal matters Consideration of regular reports on material issues During the year, the Company made limited use of relating to any litigation affecting the Company specialist teams from  LLP, Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed relating to accounting and tax services.
The fees paid to certain values  LLP for non-audit services were Secretarial 36,000 2009: 41,000.
The use of Call of all shareholder meetings  LLP for non-audit work is Delegation of board powers monitored regularly, to achieve the necessary Disclosure of directors interests independence and objectivity of the auditors.
Where the auditor provides non-audit services auditor objectivity and General independence is safeguarded by use of different teams.
Board framework of executive remuneration and costs Following a review by the audit committee, the board Any other matters not within the terms of reference agreed, in September 2010, to recommend to shareholders, of any committee of the board at the annual general meeting, the re-appointment of the Any other matter as determined from time to time external auditors for a period of one year.
by the board The audit committee assesses the ongoing effectiveness of Board committees the external auditors and audit process, on the basis of meetings and internal review with finance and other senior Audit committee executives.
In reviewing the independence of the external The committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises auditors, the audit committee considers several factors.
Elizabeth McMeikan, Debra van Gene and Sir Richard These include the standing, experience and tenure of the Beckett.
Representatives of the Companys external external auditors, the nature and level of services provided auditors,  LLP, attend audit and confirmation from the external auditors that they have committee meetings at the half year and year end.
complied with relevant UK independence standards.
Under the terms of the Code, one of the members of the committee was not independent.
The terms of reference of the audit committee are available on request.
In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively performs the following: Remuneration committee The Companys remuneration committee is chaired by Assumes direct responsibility for the appointment, Debra van Gene and comprises John Herring, Elizabeth compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett.
The directors report of the independent external auditors, including review of on remuneration is set out on pages 57 to 64.
Under the the external audit, its cost and effectiveness terms of the Code, one of the members of the committee was not independent.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Nomination committee The results of this work are reported back to relevant A formal nomination committee has been established, senior management and the audit committee.
Where comprising John Herring chairman, Debra van Gene, recommendations are made for changes in systems or Elizabeth McMeikan and Sir Richard Beckett.
The processes to reduce risk, internal audit will follow up nomination committee meets as appropriate and regularly to ensure that the recommendations are considers all possible board appointments and also the implemented.
re-election of directors, both executive and non-executive.
No director is involved in any decision about his or her Internal control own re-appointment.
Under the terms of the Code, one During the year, the Company and the board continued of the members of the committee was not independent.
to support and invest in resource to provide an internal audit and risk-management function.
The system of The terms of reference of the nomination committee are internal control and risk mitigation is deeply embedded in available on request.
the operations and the Company culture.
The board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal Company secretary control and reviewing its effectiveness.
The function can All directors have access to the advice of the company only manage, rather than entirely eliminate, the risk of secretary, responsible to the board for ensuring that failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the company secretary is reserved for consideration by the misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews, assessments and board as a whole.
Procedures are in place for seeking management of significant risks took place throughout independent professional advice, at the Companys expense.
the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accords with the Turnbull Relations with shareholders Guidance Guidance on Internal Control.
The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all board members are kept aware of both the views of The Company has an internal audit function which is major shareholders and changes in the major discharged as follows: shareholdings of the Company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective communication include: Regular audits of the Company stock Unannounced visits to retail units Annual general meeting, considered to be an important Monitoring systems which control the Company cash forum for shareholders to raise questions with the board Health & safety visits, ensuring compliance with Regular feedback from the Companys stockbrokers Company procedures Interim, full and ongoing announcements circulated Reviewing and assessing the impact of legislative and to shareholders regulatory change Any significant changes in shareholder movement Annually reviewing the Companys strategy, including being notified to the board by the company secretary, a review of risks facing the business when necessary Risk-management process, identifying key risks facing The company secretary maintaining procedures and the business Company Risk Register agreements for all announcements to the City A programme of regular meetings between investors The Company has key controls, as follows: and directors of the Company, including the senior independent director, as appropriate Clearly defined authority limits and controls over cashThe capital structure of the company is described in handling, purchasing commitments and capital expenditure note 24 to the accounts Comprehensive budgeting process, with a detailed 12-month operating plan and a mid-term financial plan, Risk management both approved by the board The board is responsible for the Companys Business results are reported weekly for key times, risk-management process.
with a monthly comprehensive report in full and compared with budget The internal audit department, in conjunction with the Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, for management of the business functions, produces a risk review by the board register annually.
This register has been compiled by the Complex treasury instruments are not used: decisions on business using a series of facilitated control and risk treasury matters are reserved by the board self-assessment workshops, run in conjunction with Regular reviews of the amount of external insurance internal audit.
These workshops were run with senior which it obtains, bearing in mind the availability of such management from the key business functions.
cover, its costs and the likelihood of the risks involved Regular evaluation of processes and controls in relation The identified risks are assessed based on the likelihood to the Companys financial reporting requirements.
of a risk occurring and the potential impact to the business, should the risk occur.
The head of internal audit The directors confirm that they have reviewed the determines and reviews the risk assessment process and effectiveness of the system of internal control.
will communicate the timetable annually.
Directors insurance cover is maintained.
The risk register is presented to the audit committee every six months, with a schedule of audit work agreed on, on a rolling basis.
The purpose of this work is to review, on Keith Down behalf of the Company and board, those key risks and Company Secretary the systems of control necessary to manage such risks.
