JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 55 55 Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance with the Directors in informal session: the Chairman is evaluated Combined Code by the other Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior The Company is committed to the principles of Independent Non-Executive Director, taking into Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code account the views of the Executive Directors: the of Corporate Governance that is appended to the Listing Committees are evaluated by the senior Independent Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which Non-Executive Director along with the Chief Executive, the Board is accountable to shareholders.
taking into account the views of the other Executive Directors: the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the The Board Chairman, are evaluated by the Chairman and Chief The Board, which is responsible to shareholders for Executive, taking into account the views of the other leading, developing and protecting the interests of the Executive Directors: and the Board as a whole evaluates Company, comprises five Non-Executive Directors and its own performance by consolidating and discussing four Executive Directors.
Details are provided on pages the reviews set out above.
Lord Oxford is the Senior Independent Non-Executive A clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Director and, at the Boards request, maintains a special Company is demonstrated in the separation of positions interest in the strategic issues in PPC, supporting the of the Non-Executive Chairman, Sir Ian Prosser, and the JKX Executive Directors and the PPC senior Chief Executive Officer, Dr Paul Davies.
Executive Directors are of varied backgrounds and All Directors have access to the services of the Company experience and the Board considers them to exercise Secretary and may, if needed, obtain independent independent and objective judgment.
professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the Matters reserved specifically for the Board are clearly execution of their duties.
The Board: sets and monitors strategy: In addition to Board meetings, the Non-Executive reviews business plans, trading performance and Directors meet in private session, both as a group and overhead costs: approves major capital investment without the Chairman, at least once annually.
projects: examines acquisition opportunities, divestment possibilities and significant financial and operational It is confirmed that all the Non-Executive Directors have issues: and reviews and approves the Companys sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the financial statements and control and risk management Company and that no Executive Director holds a systems.
In executing these responsibilities the Board Non-Executive Directorship, nor Chairmanship, in a relies on the receipt of accurate, timely and clear FTSE 100 company.
information, the dissemination of which is the responsibility of the Chairman.
All other authorities are Attendance at meetings delegated by the Board, supported by appropriate The attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and Audit controls, to the Chief Executive Officer on behalf of and Remuneration meetings during 2010 was as detailed senior management.
in the tables below and overleaf.
Evaluation of the performance of Directors, the Board and its committees is undertaken as follows: the Executive Directors are evaluated by the Non-Executive Board Meetings 11.01.10 03.03.10 25.03.10 25.08.10 17.12.10 Lord Fraser phone Lord Oxford Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune Dipesh Shah Paul Davies Bruce Burrows Martin Miller Peter Dixon 56 Directors Reports Corporate governance continued Audit Committee Meetings 11.01.10 25.03.10 25.08.10 17.12.10 Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune Dipesh Shah Remuneration Committee Meetings 08.02.10 06.05.10 Dipesh Shah Lord Oxford Nigel Moore Michel-Marc Delcommune phone matters highlighted at Section A.
3.1 of the Code, which Compliance could appear to affect a Directors judgment.
One Throughout the year ended 31st December 2010, the specific matter addressed was that Lord Fraser and Company has maintained policies and procedures that Lord Oxford had served on the Board for more than ensured compliance with the code provisions set out in nine years the Executive Directors however noted Lord Section 1 of the Combined Code and the related Frasers stated intention in March 2010 to step down Financial Services Authority Listing Rule disclosure as Chairman.
Following the review, the Executive requirements.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Directors do not consider that this matter in any way Authority require that companies report on the extent to influences the independent judgment of Lord Fraser or which they comply with the Principles of Good Lord Oxford.
Accordingly the Executive Directors Governance and Code of Best Practice.
believe each of the Non-Executive Directors and The Board believes the Company has been in full Chairman to be independent in accordance with compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Section A 3.1 of the Code both during the period under Combined Code with the following exception: review when Lord Fraser was Chairman, and subsequently, following the appointment on 1st March A.
7.2 The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive 2011 of Sir Ian Prosser as Chairman.
Directors are set out in their service contracts, which for Sir Ian Prosser is dated 1st March 2011, for Lord Audit Committee Oxford is dated 1st January 2002, for Nigel Moore is The Audit Committee currently comprises Nigel Moore, dated 12th July 2007, and for MichelMarc Dipesh Shah and Michel-Marc Delcommune.
The Delcommune and Dipesh Shah are dated 1st June Committee is chaired by Mr Moore, who as a former 2008 and include a termination notice of three months audit partner with Ernst & Young LLP possesses recent by either party.
However, the service contracts are for and relevant financial experience.
He also chairs the an indefinite term, not a finite term, subject to Audit Committee of four other UK listed companies, and re-election on an as required basis.
The Board maintains a regular pattern of attendance at relevant continues to believe this is appropriate given the seminars and courses.
company size, Non-Executive skill set, and evaluation of performance and independence on an ongoing basis The Audit Committee, which has Terms of Reference with regards to Non-Executives.
The Company agreed by the Board and available to shareholders on continues to believe the unspecified term continues to request, aims to meet at least three times a year as a be reasonable and the Non-Executive contracts combination of formal meetings, site visits and audit remain unchanged in this regard.
closing meetings attended by the Chairman for operating subsidiaries.
The Committee: reviews the In considering that the Company is, other than as Companys accounting policies: monitors the integrity of noted above, in full compliance, the Board notes that the financial statements of the Company and any excluding the Chairman, independent Non-Executive announcements relating to the Companys financial Directors comprise 50% of the Board, given the Board performance, reviewing significant financial reporting also considers that the four other Non-Executive judgements contained in them: reviews the Companys Directors are wholly independent.
internal financial controls: reviews internal control and The Executive Directors have undertaken a review of risk management systems and compliance procedures: the independence of each of the Non-Executive reports to the Board any matters upon which it considers Directors and Chairman.
The review addressed the actions or improvement are required, with associated JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 57 57 recommendations as to steps to be taken: and makes During 2010 the Remuneration Committee met twice recommendations to the Board, for it to put to with three members attending the first meeting and the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in full four members attending the second.
relation to the appointment, re-appointment and The Remuneration Committee employs the services of removal of the external auditor and to approve the Kepler as remuneration consultants on an as required remuneration and terms of engagement of the external basis.
Kepler have no other connection with the auditor.
During 2010 the Committee met four times with Company.
each Committee member attending all meetings.
Meetings are attended, by invitation, by the Chief No Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
The report of the Directors remuneration, which involves The Audit Committee reviews each of the Companys details of the Directors interest in options together with subsidiaries, interests and activities at least once a year.
information on service contracts, is set out on pages 60 Site visits to significant operations are also undertaken to 68. by Committee members on a frequent basis.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the UK The Audit Committee maintains an objective and Corporate Governance Code, specifically Section B that professional relationship with the Companys auditors, addresses the level, make up and procedural aspects of  LLP, who have been auditors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee considers to the Group since 2006, and meets in private session that it complies with all the provisions and practices with them on a periodic basis.
From time to time, the identified.
auditor is requested to perform non-audit engagements for the Group.
In such instances the continued objectivity Nomination Committee and independence of the auditors in their capacity of The members of the Nomination Committee are Sir auditor is an objective of the Group.
To meet this Ian Prosser as Chairman, who replaced Lord Fraser objective the Audit Committee is delegated the role of who was Chairman during the period, Lord Oxford and vetting the appointment of the auditor on specific Mr Nigel Moore.
The Nomination Committee did not engagements including considerations of materiality meet formally in 2010 although the Committees and, where necessary, requiring a competitive tender for members had a number of informal discussions to such work.
discuss the search for a replacement Chairman following Lord Frasers announced intention on 30th The Company promotes a culture of openness and March 2010 to stand down.
encourages staff to raise any concerns of possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Separate to the Nomination Committee, the Board matters, if necessary in confidence.
The Audit discusses the skill set and experience of the individual Committee has reviewed arrangements for such Board members, the need for additional appointments, concerns to be raised, investigated and if necessary succession planning and the need for progressive followed up.
The most recent comprehensive review was undertaken in 2005.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the UK Corporate Governance Code, specifically Section C that addresses Internal control audit committee aspects, and considers that it complies The Board is responsible for identifying and evaluating with all the provisions identified apart from the provision the major business risks faced by the Company and for concerning the need to have a dedicated internal audit determining and monitoring the appropriate course of function, which is not established for the reasons listed action to manage these risks.
Areas of non-compliance in addition to Section C monitors the integrity of the financial statements and are listed above.
announcements, reviews the Companys internal control processes and risk management systems and reports its Remuneration Committee conclusions to the Board.
The Remuneration Committee currently comprises the three Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Dipesh The Board regularly conducts reviews, and has reviewed, Shah.
The Chief Executive Officer attends meetings by for the year under review and up to the date of approval invitation.
of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, the effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal The Remuneration Committee, which has terms of control and risk management.
reference agreed by the Board and available to shareholders on request, meets at least twice a year, to It has concluded that the Companys procedures, assist the Board in determining the remuneration policies and systems are appropriate and suitable to arrangements and contracts of the Directors and senior enable the Board to safeguard shareholders investment employees.
and the Companys assets, and comply with Turnbull Guidance.
58 Directors Reports Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee annually reviews, and has reviewed Financial reporting for 2010, the need for a dedicated internal audit function.
The Company maintains an effective and reliable As noted above, it has recommended to the Board that, accounting and management information system.
The due to the scale and geographic distribution of the Board receives a monthly report that monitors: actual Companys licences and operating interests, the Board performance against budget and forecast for oil and gas continues to be best served by using external specialist production: sales and costs: and provides the Board with assistance on dedicated business and financial risk information on issues including debtors, the cash areas to supplement the Companys own risk analysis.
position, cashflow forecasting and the financial The process and systems of internal control are implications of key sensitivities including changes in designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of commodity prices and exchange rates.
The Company failure to achieve business objectives and can only also maintains an effective and reliable suite of policies, provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against procedures and controls in preparing consolidated material misstatement or loss.
These controls include rigorous review of the process and output, and full IT support and review to The key procedures, which the Directors have ensure accounting tools and systems are robust.
established with a view to providing effective internal control, are described below.
In addition, the Companys Budgetary process independent auditors present reports to the Audit Each year the Board approves the annual budget with Committee, which include any significant internal key risk areas identified.
Performance is monitored and control matters that they have identified as part of their relevant action taken throughout the year through the normal audit work.
monthly reporting to the Board of variances from the budget, updated forecasts for the year together with Business risk information on the key risk areas.
A process is in place to enable the Board to identify the major business, operational, financial and compliance Corporate accounting and procedures manual risks faced by the Company and to determine the Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the appropriate course of action to manage and monitor Group as part of the corporate accounting and these risks.
This process is regularly reviewed by the procedures manual.
This sets out, inter alia, the general Audit Committee and reported to the Board as ethos of the Group, delegation of authority and appropriate.
authorisation levels, segregation of duties and control The Company identifies and distinguishes High Profile procedures together with accounting policies and Events, i. e. those risks that could have material effect procedures.
The manual, which includes policies on the Companys financial position or reputation, from common to all Group companies along with company other business risks that it assesses and considers to be specific procedures and controls is reviewed regularly acceptable for the Company to bear taking into account and updated as required.
the industry and the markets in which it operates.
The application of internal financial control and The Audit Committee reviews annually the Companys operational procedures are reviewed during visits to the subsidiaries and investments from a business, overseas offices by Head Office staff.
operational and financial risk perspective to ensure that the system of internal control and accountability is Quality and integrity of personnel embedded in the operations of the Group.
Members of The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured the Audit Committee visit subsidiaries and operations on through high recruitment standards and subsequent a regular basis.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
The ethical The Audit Committee considers that managers are standards expected of staff are communicated through conscious of the need to identify and assess risks in the corporate accounting and procedures manual.
their operations and the effect of changes in the business environment, to respond quickly and Investment appraisal appropriately and to report immediately any significant Capital investment is regulated by the budgetary process control failings and weaknesses that are identified, and authorisation levels.
together with details of corrective action.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written Management structure proposals have to be submitted to the Board.
Capital The Board has overall responsibility for the Group and expenditures are reviewed with major overruns in terms there is a formal schedule of matters specifically of cost and time being investigated.
reserved for decision by the Board.
Each executive has The internal financial control situation is reported to the been given responsibility and is accountable for specific Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness aspects of the Groups affairs.
of the system of internal financial controls as it operated JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 59 59 during the year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
Communication with shareholders Extensive information about the Groups activities is provided in the Annual Report and Accounts and the Half-yearly Report which are sent to shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders for which the Board as a whole has responsibility.
Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their shareholding and the business of the Group are welcomed and are dealt with in an informative and timely manner.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting to discuss the progress of the Group.
Going concern After making enquiries and taking into consideration the Ukrainian and Russian business environments, as detailed in note 29 of the accounts, together with reviewing the Groups budget for 2011 and its medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
The going concern basis for the accounts has therefore continued to be adopted.
By order of the Board Sir Ian Prosser Chairman 19th April 2011
