Governance go online at www.
com 39 : Governance Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The Board remains fully committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and believes that this is key to overall performance and integrity.
The following section explains how the Company has applied the main principles outlined in the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at www.
The directors consider that the company has fully complied with the provisions of the Code during the year ended 31 December 2010.
The Board also believes that good corporate governance extends beyond regulatory compliance and consistently monitors developments in best practice, including guidance published by investor groups.
In June 2010, the FRC published a new code, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code, which will apply to the company from 1 January 2011.
The Governance Code realigns best practice guidance with the themes of Leadership: Effectiveness: Accountability: Remuneration: and Relations with Shareholders and the Board will report on the Companys compliance with the Governance Code in the 2011 Annual Report.
What is the composition of the Board?
Board of Directors and From 24 February, when M Contie joined the Board as a non-executive who is on each committee director, the Board comprised 14 directors, made up of seven executive and seven non-executive directors.
Audit Remuneration Nominations Committee Committee Committee As previously announced, it is proposed that R Keiller will join the Executive Directors Board following the completion of the PSN acquisition, which is expected to take place prior to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Sir Ian Wood 8 Further, in anticipation of the sale of the Well Support division, A G Langlands J B Renfroe will resign from the Board at or prior to the Meeting.
D J Ogren will resign at the 2011 AGM and it is our intention to seek A G Semple shareholder approval to appoint a new non-executive director.
M Straughen L J Thomas A clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board, in compliance with the Combined Code.
J B Renfroe The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of M H Papworth the Board.
He chairs the Board meetings, ensures the agendas are appropriate and is responsible for facilitating that all directors actively Non-executive Directors contribute to the determination of the Groups strategy.
The Chief Dr C Masters 8 8 Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group M Contie and implementation of the Group strategy, develops proposals for 8 8 Board approval, and ensures that a regular dialogue with shareholders I D Marchant 8 8 is maintained.
Executive Board Members report directly to the Chief J C Morgan Executive.
8 8 8 D J Ogren 8 8 Dr C Masters, who was the senior independent director and Chairman N H Smith 8 8 of the Audit Committee throughout the year, will step down from those roles at the Annual General Meeting, at which time I D Marchant will D K Woodward 8 8 assume those roles.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders on request.
What is the role of the Board?
Are the Board members independent?
The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its After careful consideration, the Board considers all of its non-executive consideration and approval.
These include responsibility for Group directors to be independent in character and judgement and that there strategy, the annual budget, significant acquisitions and the overall are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could system of internal control.
Executive management is responsible for the appear to affect, their judgement.
Brief biographies of the directors implementation of Board decisions in these areas and all other aspects appear on pages 36 and 37. of managing the business.
40 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance continued The Code requires the Board to state its reasons for considering a nonThe directors have access, via a secure intranet site, to presentations executive director to be independent if he has served for more than nine from the Groups brokers which contain investors feedback, copies of years.
J C Morgan has served as a non-executive director for more than relevant regulations, analyst research and appropriate administrative nine years, D J Ogren reached nine years service during 2010 and information.
Dr C Masters will reach nine years service on 18 March 2011.
J C Morgan and Dr C Masters will be considered for re-election at the The executive directors, excluding the Chairman, attended 10 Group 2011 AGM.
As previously announced, D J Ogren will retire at the 2011 Board Executive meetings throughout the year which include reports AGM.
and discussions on HSE, operational issues, finance, legal, investor relations and human resources matters.
In addition, divisional directors The Board believes that independence should not be determined simply conduct quarterly review meetings with senior managers of all of the by length of tenure.
Rather, the Board considers it important for the businesses within their division.
These meetings are also normally individual concerned to possess the personal characteristics necessary attended by the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
to demonstrate independent thought and therefore act in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
In particular, an individual What training do the Board members receive?
should openly challenge the views of the other directors and senior The training needs of directors are periodically discussed at Board management.
It is also beneficial that each director has an meetings and briefings arranged on issues relating to corporate in-depth experience of the relevant sector and a detailed knowledge governance.
Arrangements are in place for newly appointed directors to of the Groups strategy.
undertake an induction process designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Groups business.
This includes briefing The Board has carefully reviewed the length of service of J C Morgan, sessions during regular Board meetings, visits to Group operating sites D J Ogren and Dr C Masters, without them being present, and is of and discussion of relevant business issues.
Upon their appointment, the view that each of them should be considered independent.
In each directors are advised of their legal and other duties and their obligations case, they have significant experience and knowledge of the energy as directors of a listed company under the Companies Act 2006. sector and long-term perspective on the Groups activities and strategy and continue to be valuable to the Group, contributing significantly to All directors are encouraged to attend relevant external seminars.
In addition, the company is not their primary source of income and they do not participate in any of its bonus, option There is a procedure for any director to take independent professional or incentive schemes.
The Board believes that there is no indication advice at the Groups expense and all directors have access to the of length of service having any adverse impact on their judgement or services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that independence.
the Boards procedures are followed.
Are Board members standing for re-election?
How is the Boards performance evaluated?
All Directors, other than J B Renfroe and D J Ogren, will seek re-election The Board completed a formal evaluation of its own performance and at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Assuming completion of the PSN of its committees, individual directors, and of the Chairman for the year.
acquisition, R Keiller will also stand for election.
This involved directors completing detailed questionnaires, the results of which were analysed by the Company Secretary and presented for How does the Board discharge its responsibilities?
discussion both at a full Board meeting and separate meetings between There were seven Board meetings during 2010.
Four of the meetings each director and the Chairman.
The non-executive directors, led by were scheduled as two-day sessions and were held in either Aberdeen the senior independent director, are responsible for the performance or Houston.
evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Safety is always the first item on the agenda at Board meetings.
The Board received detailed presentations from senior management within How are conflicts of interest dealt with?
the Groups businesses during the year, each including updates on The Board requires directors to declare any appointments or other health and safety performance.
Other presentations included reports on situations which would amount to a possible conflict of interest.
The the Groups internal control and risk management systems.
Board has procedures in place to deal with, and if necessary, approve any such conflicts.
No such conflicts of interest were declared in 2010.
In addition to Board meetings the Board receives a monthly report which gives a summary of safety, financial and operational matters and a more detailed quarterly report including reports on safety, operations, human resources, investor relations and detailed financial information, including financial projections.
Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 41 : Committees of the Board Board Audit Remuneration Nominations The Board has delegated some of its Committee Committee Committee responsibilities to committees the Number of meetings Audit Committee, the Remuneration 7 4 2 1 held in 2010 Committee and the Nominations Executive Directors Committee.
A summary of the work of the Sir Ian Wood 7 1 Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee is set out below and the A G Langlands 7 report of the Remuneration Committee is A G Semple 7 included in the Directors Remuneration M Straughen 7 Report on pages 45-54.
L J Thomas 7 J B Renfroe 7 The Committees terms of reference are M H Papworth 7 available on the Groups website.
Non-executive Directors M Contie 7 2 1 Attendance by directors at the meetings of the Board and its committees is I D Marchant 7 4 1 summarised here.
Dr C Masters 7 4 1 J C Morgan 7 4 2 1 The dates of future Board meetings have D J Ogren 7 2 1 now been agreed until the end of 2013.
N H Smith 7 1 1 D K Woodward 7 4 1 Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is responsible for recommending candidates to the Board and ensuring succession plans are in place.
The Nominations Committee aims to promote high standards of corporate governance by ensuring that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board both now and in the future promotes long-term value for shareholders.
Sir Ian Wood Chairman, Nominations Committee Who is on the Nominations Committee?
How does the Committee discharge its responsibilities?
The Nominations Committee comprised the Chairman and all of the The Committee meets at least once a year, and has written terms of independent non-executive directors as follows: reference setting out its roles and responsibilities.
Sir Ian Wood Chairman M Contie Main responsibilities: I D Marchant reviewing Board structure, size and composition Dr C Masters making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes J C Morgan identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board D J Ogren filling Board vacancies N H Smith ensuring succession plans are in place D K Woodward The Committee met once during 2010.
42 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance continued Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls, monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and internal and external audit functions.
The Audit Committee aims to promote high standards of corporate governance by ensuring robust and effective financial and audit controls.
Dr Christopher Masters Chairman, Audit Committee Who is on the Audit Committee?
Re-appointment of external auditors The Audit Committee comprises four independent non-executive  LLP PwC have been the Groups external directors: Dr C Masters Chairman, I D Marchant, J C Morgan and auditors since the Group became a publicly listed company in 2002.
In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board The ongoing effectiveness of the external auditors is considered considers that I D Marchant has recent and relevant financial experience.
by the Audit Committee on an annual basis as described below.
Notwithstanding the length of their tenure, to date the Committee has The Committee meets at least three times a year, and has written terms been satisfied with the effectiveness of the external auditors and have of reference setting out its roles and responsibilities, including: not considered it necessary to require PwC to tender for the external reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial controls audit work.
The re-appointment of the external auditors is submitted for monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and its approval by the shareholders annually at the Annual General Meeting.
interim and preliminary announcements monitoring and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee audit function has reviewed the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit reviewing the terms of engagement and independence of the external lead partner, the arrangements for ensuring the independence and auditors objectivity of the external auditors, the nature and level of services assessing the audit process and the effectiveness of the external provided, including the robustness of the external auditors handling of auditors to supply non audit services, in accordance with Group key judgmental areas and the quality of the external auditors interaction policy with, and reporting to, the Committee.
reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or other improvement is needed and making There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Groups choice of recommendations as to the steps to be taken external auditors.
External auditor independence and non-audit services The Committee met four times in 2010.
Attendance at Committee The Committee has overall responsibility for ensuring that the external meetings is at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee: and the auditors independence and objectivity is not compromised.
Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors are generally invited to attend.
The One of the key risks to external auditor independence is the provision Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have the right of direct of non audit services by the external auditor.
The Committee considers access to the Chairman of the Committee at all times and to meet the and approves fees in respect of non audit services provided by the Committee without management present.
external auditors in accordance with the Groups policy in this area, which is set out in the Audit Committees terms of reference.
The cost of During 2010 the Committee: non audit services provided in 2010 is reported in note 3 to the financial reviewed the Annual Report for 2009 and the Interim Report for 2010 statements.
In the opinion of the Committee, the provision of these nonreviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls audit services did not impair PwCs independence.
discussed with management and the external auditors significant issues and areas of financial risk, accounting principles, practices and judgements considered with the external auditors the significant matters arising from the annual external audit reviewed reports prepared by the internal audit function together with managements response and the actions taken focused on complex or unusual transactions and judgemental areas Energy Supporting Energy Governance go online at www.
com 43 : Internal Control Ongoing procedures Overall control environment The Group has a clear The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal organisational structure for the control and monitoring of its control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
businesses, including defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
The Group has issued policies which define the The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating standards of business conduct and include Accounting Policies, and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that has been in Contract Risk Management and Review: Health, Safety and place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Environment: and Business Ethics.
Consistent with the Business annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and is in Ethics Policy, advice lines have been established to enable staff and accordance with the revised guidance on internal controls published in third parties to raise ethical concerns in confidence.
October 2005 by the Turnbull Review Group: Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The Group, for the For further details please refer to the Ethics section of purposes of applying the Turnbull Review Group guidance referred to Corporate Social Responsibility on page 29. above, comprises John Wood Group PLC, its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Risk identification and management The Board formally Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than reviews the Groups exposure to key business risks at least once a eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can year including the controls in place and management action plans.
only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material In addition the Board receives regular updates from management misstatement or loss.
on specific risks and actions.
Each divisions management team is responsible for the process of identification and evaluation of The key elements of the ongoing procedures which the directors have significant operational, financial and compliance risks and for the established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control design and operation of effective internal controls.
on an annual basis are listed to the right.
For further details please refer to Principal risks and As a result of these ongoing procedures the Boards assessment was uncertainties on pages 22 and 23. that the internal control environment was operating effectively.
Monitoring of the internal control systems The Board has agreed certain reporting procedures to monitor key risk areas on an ongoing basis, including health and safety, legal and financial matters.
The Audit Committee has been delegated the responsibility to review the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems implemented by management.
It is assisted by the internal auditors and, where appropriate, the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee regularly reports to the Board on their discussions.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting performance to the Board.
This includes monthly and quarterly reports.
The quarterly reports include a detailed financial review against budgets, and, twice a year, revised forecasts.
The executive directors also receive detailed monthly financial reports and meet on a monthly basis to discuss financial performance and other operational matters.
In addition, each division holds Quarterly Review Meetings QRMs involving discussions with senior managers and certain of the executive directors.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director normally attend the QRMs.
44 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate governance continued Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to The Group has considerable financial resources together with the cash affect its future development, performance and position are set out inflows generated from its existing activities as set out in note 26 to in the Operational Review on pages 8 to 23.
The financial position of the financial statements.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
described in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 21.
In addition, note Having made the appropriate enquiries including a review of cash flow 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies projections and key sensitivities, the directors consider, in accordance and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management with the Code, that the business is a going concern.
Adequate objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and resources exist for the Group to continue in operational existence for its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the parent company companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 36 Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial and 37, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and parent view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair and view of the state of affairs of the company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the directors report on page 38 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as of which the companys auditors are unaware.
Relevant information is adopted by the European Union, and with regard to the parent defined as information needed by the companys auditors in connection company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting with preparing their report.
Each director has taken all the steps that he Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any disclosed and explained in the financial statements relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
