NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Nomination Committee Also at its meeting on 2nd February 2010, the Nomination Committee noted that the Chairman, Sir John Banham, would serve as Chairman The Nomination Committee is a committee of the board whose until the Annual General Meeting in July 2011 in accordance with purpose is to advise the board on the appointment and, if necessary, the terms of his appointment and that he would not be seeking a dismissal of executive and non-executive directors.
The full terms of further term beyond that date.
Consideration therefore needed to reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the companys be given to the appointment of a successor and it was agreed that website at www.
a draft specification for the role should be prepared.
This was subsequently prepared and, at its meeting on 30th March 2010, Composition of the Nomination Committee the Nomination Committee considered the draft specification and The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent nonalso considered initial proposals from a number of executive search executive directors together with the group Chairman.
The quorum consultants to assist in the recruitment process.
The draft necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom specification was approved and it was agreed that the selection must be an independent non-executive director.
Biographical details process, including the selection of executive search consultants, of the independent directors and the group Chairman are set out should be led by the Senior Independent Director and the Chief on pages 38 and 39.
Their remuneration is set out on page 51.
Executive, assisted by the Director of Human Resources.
At both meetings, the Senior Independent Director chaired the discussions The group Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Nomination relating to the Chairmans successor.
Committee, although the group Chairman may not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the matter of Also at its meetings on 2nd February and 30th March 2010, the succession to the chairmanship of the company.
A non-executive Nomination Committee discussed the prospective retirement in director may not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing September 2011 of Mr A M Thomson, the Senior Independent with a matter relating to that non-executive director.
Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Mr R J W Walvis, Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Only members of the Nomination Committee have the right to Committee.
It was agreed that the process for succession should attend Nomination Committee meetings.
However, the Chief be instigated later in the year.
Executive, the Director of Human Resources, external advisers and others may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
On behalf of the Nomination Committee: The Company Secretary is secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee has the authority to seek any information that it requires from any officer or employee of the company or its subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Nomination Committee is authorised by the board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the companys expense as it Sir John Banham considers necessary, including requests for information from or Chairman of the Nomination Committee commissioning investigations by external advisers.
Main Activities of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met twice during the financial year ended 31st March 2010: on 2nd February and 30th March 2010.
The Nomination Committee met on 2nd February 2010 to discuss board succession and consider proposed recommendations to the board for extensions to the terms of appointment of Mr M J Roney, Mrs D C Thompson and Mr R J W Walvis.
After full review, the Nomination Committee recommended second three year terms for Mr Roney and Mrs Thompson and an extension of the term for Mr Walvis of one year taking his term of appointment to nine years.
After review, the board accepted these recommendations at its meeting on 30th March 2010.
