AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Role of the Audit Committee At its meeting on 2nd February 2010 the Audit Committee reviewed managements and internal audits reports on the effectiveness of The Audit Committee is a committee of the board whose the companys systems for internal financial control and risk responsibilities include: management.
The Committee reviewed the groups credit control Reviewing the half-yearly and full year accounts and results procedures and risks, controls over precious metals and IT controls.
announcements of the company and any other formal The groups corporate social responsibility reporting arrangements announcements relating to the companys financial performance and whistleblowing procedures were also reviewed.
Changes to the and recommending them to the board for approval.
Group Control Manual were ratified.
The Committee also received a Reviewing the groups systems for internal financial control and presentation on the risks facing the Precious Metal Products Division risk management.
from the Division Finance Director.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the companys Since the year end the Committee has met to review the companys internal audit function and considering regular reports from preliminary announcement of its results and draft report and internal audit on internal financial controls and risk management.
accounts for the financial year ended 31st March 2010, and also the companys assessment of going concern.
Considering the appointment of the external auditors, overseeing the process for their selection and making recommendations to Independence of External Auditors the board in relation to their appointment to be put to shareholders for approval at a general meeting.
Both the board and the external auditors have for many years had Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness and independence of safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors the external auditors, agreeing the nature and scope of their audit, objectivity and independence could be compromised.
Our policy in agreeing their remuneration, and considering their reports on the respect of services provided by the external auditors is as follows: companys accounts, reports to shareholders and their evaluation Audit related services the external auditors are invited to provide of the systems of internal financial control and risk management.
services which, in their position as auditors, they must or are best The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee are provided on placed to undertake.
This includes formalities relating to borrowings, the companys website at www.
shareholders and other circulars, various other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals.
Composition of the Audit Committee Tax consulting in cases where they are best suited, we use the The Audit Committee comprises all the independent non-executive external auditors.
All other significant tax consulting work is put directors.
Biographical details of the independent directors are set out to tender.
Their remuneration is set out on page 51.
General consulting in recognition of public concern over the The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr A M Thomson, who effect of consulting services on auditors independence, our was formerly Finance Director of Smiths Group plc and is currently policy is that the external auditors are not invited to tender for President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
The general consulting work where we believe it would compromise group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of their audit independence and objectivity.
Internal Audit and external auditors KPMG Audit Plc attend Audit The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year ended Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee also meets 31st March 2010 and information on the nature of non-audit fees separately with the Head of Internal Audit and with the external appear in note 5 on the accounts.
auditors without management being present.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit Main Activities of the Audit Committee During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance of the The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year ended internal audit function, the findings of the audits completed during 31st March 2010.
At its meeting on 29th May 2009 the Committee the year and the departments resource requirements and also reviewed the companys preliminary announcement of its results for approved the internal audit plan for the year ending 31st March 2011. the financial year ended 31st March 2009, and the draft report and Internal audit independently reviews the risks and control processes accounts for that year.
The Committee received reports from the operated by management.
It carries out independent audits in external auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of the accordance with an internal audit plan which is agreed with the accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgment, Audit Committee before the start of the financial year.
and their comments on risk management and control matters.
The plan provides a high degree of financial and geographical The Audit Committee met on 20th July 2009 to receive reports on coverage and devotes significant effort to the review of the risk internal controls from both the internal and external auditors and management framework surrounding the major business risks.
approve amendments to the Group Control Manual.
The external auditors also presented their proposed fees and scope for the Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal forthcoming years audit.
The Committee also assessed the controls together with agreed management action plans to resolve performance of both the internal and external auditors.
The review the issues raised.
Internal audit follows up the implementation of of the external auditors was used to confirm the appropriateness of recommendations and reports progress to senior management and their reappointment and included assessment of their independence, the Audit Committee.
qualification, expertise and resources, and effectiveness of the audit The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal process.
The Committee recommended to the board the Audit on the departments work and findings.
reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors.
In addition, the The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed and Committee received a presentation on the groups taxation discussed on an annual basis with the Head of Internal Audit.
management processes and strategy from the groups Director of Tax.
The groups Sustainability Report 2008 09 was also reviewed, which is available on the companys website at www.
On behalf of the Committee: At its meeting on 23rd November 2009 the Audit Committee reviewed the companys half-yearly results, the half-yearly report and the external auditors review and also papers on credit control and credit risk and on litigation affecting the group.
The Committee received a presentation on the risks facing the Emission Control Technologies business from Alan Thomson the Environmental Technologies Division Finance Director.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report & Accounts 2010 47 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
