CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code judgment and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the directors judgment.
This statement describes how the Main Principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, issued by the Financial Reporting The executive directors have specific responsibilities, which are Council dated June 2008 the Code, have been applied.
detailed on pages 38 and 39, and have direct responsibility for all operations and activities.
During the year ended 31st March 2010, the company has complied with all relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, all the year except the following: directors submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The board composition allows for changes to be made with A.
3.2 At least half the board, excluding the chairman, should minimum disruption.
comprise non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Regular business presentations from senior managers at board meetings assist the non-executive directors in familiarising During the period from 22nd June 2009, following the appointment themselves with the groups businesses.
The board also usually holds of Mr R J MacLeod as Group Finance Director designate, at least one board meeting per year at one of the groups operational to 21st July 2009, the board comprised five independent sites and takes the opportunity to tour the site and discuss issues non-executive directors and six executive directors and therefore with local senior and middle management.
During the year ended less than half of the board comprised independent non-executive 31st March 2010 the board visited the new methanol synthesis directors.
On 21st July 2009, following the retirement of catalyst manufacturing plant in Clitheroe, UK and the Emission Control Dr P N Hawker and Mr D W Morgan from the board and the Technologies manufacturing facilities in Royston, UK.
Individual appointment of Mr W F Sandford as an executive director, the number of executive directors was reduced to five.
Since the non-executive directors also undertake site visits.
Such presentations, retirement of Mr J N Sheldrick as Group Finance Director on meetings and site visits help to give a balanced overview of the 7th September 2009, more than half of the board has comprised company.
They enable the non-executive directors to build an independent non-executive directors.
The board considers the one understanding of the companys businesses, the markets in which month period of non-compliance with this provision to be immaterial the company operates and its main relationships and to build a link and was necessary in order to ensure orderly board succession.
This is important in helping the non-executive directors to continually develop and refresh their D. 1.1 The senior independent director should attend sufficient knowledge and skills to ensure that their contribution to the board meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to their remains informed and relevant.
Account is taken of environmental, views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the social and governance matters in the training of directors.
issues and concerns of major shareholders.
During the year the board undertook a formal evaluation of its During the year the board has taken the view that it is not performance and the performance of its committees and the necessarily practical, efficient or desired by shareholders for the individual directors.
The Deputy Company Secretary conducted face Senior Independent Director to attend meetings with major to face interviews with each individual director based on a standard shareholders in order to learn their issues and concerns unless questionnaire.
The interviews focused on the operation of the board such discussions are requested by shareholders.
The methods and its committees and on individual directors contributions.
by which major shareholders views are communicated to the Separately, the Chairman held a series of one to one discussions board as a whole are discussed under Relations with with each director to provide them with an opportunity to expand Shareholders on page 41. on their responses, to raise any broader issues and to review their performance.
A report was prepared on the findings of these Directors and the Board interviews and it also contained a number of recommendations The board is responsible to the companys shareholders for the designed to ensure that the current high standards of governance groups system of corporate governance, its strategic objectives and and processes were maintained.
The report has been considered the stewardship of the companys resources and is ultimately by the board and the board approved its recommendations.
The responsible for social, environmental and ethical matters.
The board report concluded that the board and its committees continue to held seven meetings in the year and in addition met separately to work effectively.
review the groups long term strategy.
The board delegates specific Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors responsibilities to board committees, as described below.
The board reviews the key activities of the business and receives papers and met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans presentations to enable it to do so effectively.
The Company Secretary performance, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
is responsible to the board, and is available to individual directors, in respect of board procedures.
Committees of the Board The board comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other The Chief Executives Committee is responsible for the executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
recommendation to the board of strategic and operating plans Mr N A P Carson is the Chief Executive.
Sir John Banham is the and on decisions reserved to the board where appropriate.
Sir Johns other commitments are disclosed on page 38. also responsible for the executive management of the groups The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and Chairman leads the board, ensuring that each director, particularly meets monthly except in August.
During the year it comprised the each non-executive director, is able to make an effective contribution.
executive directors and six senior executives of the company.
He monitors, with assistance from the Company Secretary, the The Audit Committee is a committee of the board whose purpose information distributed to the board to ensure that it is sufficient, is to assist the board in the effective discharge of its responsibilities accurate, timely and clear.
The Chief Executive maintains day-to-day for financial reporting and corporate control.
The Audit Committee management responsibility for the companys operations, implementing meets quarterly and is chaired by Mr A M Thomson.
It comprises all group strategies and policies agreed by the board.
the independent non-executive directors with the group Chairman, The role of non-executive directors, who are appointed for specified the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the external and terms subject to re-election and to Companies Acts provisions internal auditors attending by invitation.
A report from the Audit relating to the removal of a director, is to enhance independence and Committee on its activities is given on page 47.
Mr Thomson has objectivity of the boards deliberations and decisions.
Mr A M Thomson recent and relevant financial experience as former Finance Director is the Senior Independent Director.
Each non-executive director is of Smiths Group plc and currently as President of the Institute of considered by the board to be independent in character and Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
40 - Johnson Matthey CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committees of the Board continued Attendance at the board and board committee meetings in 2009 10 was as follows: Full Board MDRC Nomination Committee Audit Committee Director Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended 1 Sir John Banham 774422 4 1 1 1 N A P Carson 77 4 2 4 Sir Thomas Harris 77442244 P N Hawker 3 3 1 R J MacLeod 5 5 3 D W Morgan 3 3 L C Pentz 7 7 M J Roney 77442244 W F Sandford 5 5 1 J N Sheldrick 3 3 2 2 D C Thompson 76 442244 A M Thomson 77442244 R J W Walvis 77442144 Notes 1 Includes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of meeting.
The Nomination Committee is a committee of the board Contact with major shareholders is principally maintained by the responsible for advising the board and making recommendations Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, who ensure that on the appointment and, if necessary, dismissal of executive and their views are communicated to the board as a whole.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by is also available to discuss governance and other matters directly Sir John Banham, the group Chairman, and also comprises all the with major shareholders.
The board believes that appropriate steps independent non-executive directors.
A report from the Nomination have been taken during the year to ensure that the members of the Committee on its activities is given on page 46. board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the company.
The Management Development and Remuneration Committee The board is provided with brokers reports at every board meeting MDRC is a committee of the board which determines on behalf of and feedback from shareholder meetings on a six-monthly basis.
the board the fair remuneration of the executive directors and the The canvassing of major shareholders views for the board in a Chairman and assists the board in ensuring that the current and detailed investor survey is usually conducted every two years by future senior management of the group are recruited, developed and external consultants.
The board has taken the view that these remunerated in an appropriate fashion.
The MDRC is chaired by methods, taken together, are a practical and efficient way both for Mr R J W Walvis and comprises all the independent non-executive the Chairman to keep in touch with major shareholder opinion on directors together with the group Chairman.
The Chief Executive and governance and strategy and for the Senior Independent Director the Director of Human Resources attend by invitation except when to learn the views of major shareholders and to develop a balanced their own performance and remuneration are discussed.
Further understanding of their issues and concerns.
The Senior Independent details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56.
Director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, however no such Directors Remuneration meetings were requested during the year.
The Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 56 includes details of remuneration policies and of the remuneration of the directors.
Accountability, Audit and Control In its reporting to shareholders, the board aims to present a Relations with Shareholders balanced and understandable assessment of the groups financial The board considers effective communication with shareholders, position and prospects.
The statement of the Responsibility of whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders, Directors for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is to be extremely important.
The company reports formally to shareholders when its full year and The groups organisational structure is focused on its three divisions.
half year results are published.
These results are posted on Johnson These are all separately managed but report to the board through Mattheys website www.
At the same time, executive a board director.
The executive management team receives monthly directors give presentations on the results to institutional investors, summaries of financial results from each division through a analysts and the media in London and other international centres.
The group has in place a Live audiocasts of the results presentations in London are available comprehensive annual budgeting process including forecasts for the on the companys website and copies of major presentations are next two years.
Variances from budget are closely monitored.
also posted on the companys website.
The Group Control Manual, which is distributed to all group The companys Annual General Meeting takes place in London and operations, clearly sets out the composition, responsibilities and formal notification is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days authority limits of the various board and executive committees and in advance of the meeting.
The directors are available for questions, also specifies what may be decided without central approval.
It is formally during the Annual General Meeting and informally afterwards.
supplemented by other specialist policy and procedures manuals Details of the 2010 Annual General Meeting are set out in the notice issued by the group, divisions and individual businesses or of the meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
The high intrinsic value of many of the metals with which the group is associated necessitates stringent physical controls over precious metals held at the groups sites.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 41 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Accountability, Audit and Control continued Corporate Social Responsibility The board has overall responsibility for the groups systems of internal Measures to ensure responsible business conduct and the identification control, including in respect of the financial reporting process, and and assessment of risks associated with social, ethical and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The internal control systems are environmental matters are managed in conjunction with all other designed to meet the groups needs and manage the risks to which business risks and reviewed at regular meetings of the board, the it is exposed, although these cannot be eliminated.
Such systems Audit Committee and the Chief Executives Committee.
can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against A review of the groups policies and targets for corporate social material misstatement or loss.
responsibility CSR is set out in the Sustainability section of the There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing Business Review on pages 29 to 37.
A full version of the Sustainability the significant risks faced by the company.
This process has been in Report is available on the companys website.
place during the financial year and up to the date of approval of the The identification and monitoring of environment, health and safety Annual Report and Accounts.
The board regularly reviews this process.
EHS, social and governance risks are the responsibility of the CSR The assessment of group and strategic risks is reviewed by the Compliance Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Chief board and updated on an annual basis.
At the business level, the Executives Committee.
It comprises the division directors, the processes to identify and manage the key risks are an integral part Director of EHS, the Company Secretary and senior representatives of the control environment.
Key risks and internal controls are the of Group Legal, Internal Audit, Group EHS and other group functions.
subject of regular reporting to the Chief Executives Committee.
The Committee has specific responsibility for setting and overseeing compliance with the standards for group CSR performance through The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the the development, dissemination, adoption and implementation of groups systems for internal financial control and risk management, appropriate group policies and other operational measures.
EHS considering regular reports from management and internal audit.
performance is monitored using monthly statistics and detailed site The Audit Committee also considers reports from the external audit reports.
EHS performance is reviewed on a regular basis by auditors on their evaluation of the systems of internal financial the Chief Executives Committee and an annual review is undertaken control and risk management.
Amongst other matters, the Audit by the board.
Committee reviews the groups credit control procedures and risks, controls over precious metals, IT controls and the groups corporate Risks from employment and employee issues are identified and social responsibility reporting arrangements and whistleblowing assessed by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to the procedures.
The Audit Committee also reviews the performance of board.
both the internal and external auditors.
Employment contracts, handbooks and policies specify acceptable The internal audit function is responsible for monitoring the groups business practices and the groups position on ethical issues.
The systems of internal financial controls and the control of the integrity Group Control Manual and security manuals provide further of the financial information reported to the board.
The Audit operational guidelines to reinforce these.
Committee approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives The Audit Committee reviews risks associated with corporate social the reports produced by the internal audit function on a regular responsibility on an annual basis and monitors performance through basis.
Actions are agreed with management in response to any the annual control self-assessment process conducted by the issues raised by the internal audit reports produced.
Internal audit internal audit function.
follows up the implementation of its recommendations, including any recommendations to improve internal controls, and reports the outcome to senior management and to the Audit Committee.
In addition, significant businesses provide assurance on the maintenance of financial and non-financial controls and compliance with group policies.
These assessments are summarised by the internal audit function and a report is made annually to the Audit Committee.
A report from the Audit Committee on its activities and on the work of internal audit is given on page 47.
The directors confirm that the system of internal controls for the year ended 31st March 2010 and the period up to 2nd June 2010 has been established in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the Financial Reporting Council included with the Code.
The directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
