52 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued effective and all-in effective tax rate Deferred income tax The table above shows the Groups effective tax rate as The income tax expense for the year includes a charge of well as the all-in effective tax rate.
The all-in effective tax $16 million 2009: $6 million in respect of deferred income tax.
rate excluded the effect of the hedging losses in 2009, This additional charge arises from the new tax legislation which as these are not expected to arise in the future.
will maintain CIT in Kazakhstan at 20% beyond 2012, rather than the phased reduction in CIT as previously envisaged The effective rate of tax for 2010 was 12.7% compared under the legislation enacted in 2009.
The deferred tax to a rate of 25.4% in the prior year principally as a result of the balances within the Groups Kazakhstan businesses have greater contribution from ENRC earnings which are included been recalculated applying a flat rate of 20% in future years.
in the consolidated income statement on an after-tax basis.
The all-in effective tax rate, which is a more representative tax rate equity accounted earnings on the recurring profits of the Groups subsidiary businesses, was The Groups interests in the earnings of ENRC and Ekibastuz 37.5% compared to 42.5% in 2009.
The Groups all-in effective GRES-1 are included, net of tax, in the consolidated income tax rate is lower when compared to the prior year primarily due statement in arriving at profit before taxation, thereby to the proportionately lower MET charge as compared to the reducing the Groups effective tax rate by 6.9% 2009: 7.0%.
increased underlying profitability of the Group.
non-deductible items MET is determined independently of the profitability of The tax impact of non-deductible expenses was $75 million operations.
Consequently, in periods when the copper price is in 2010, $26 million greater than 2009, primarily due to the at elevated levels, the profitability of the operations increases, increased social spend in Kazakhstan during 2010 which but the all-in effective tax rate decreases as the impact of MET includes the $130 million charge recognised for major social lessens due to its revenue-based nature.
Under Kazakhstan tax legislation, the deductibility of prices result in a higher absolute amount of taxes being levied, social expenditure is capped with costs above a threshold not the all-in effective tax rate decreases.
Conversely, during periods deductible for tax purposes.
In addition, certain intercompany of low copper prices, the all-in effective tax rate increases.
interest amounts incurred during 2010 are not deductible for tax purposes in accordance with UK tax legislation.
In 2009, mineral extraction tax the largest non-deductible expense was the $129 million loss MET, which was introduced on 1 January 2009, is a revenue tax incurred on the copper hedging programme in Kazakhmys based on the volume and metal content of extracted ore and Copper.
The impact of the non-deductibility of these costs global commodity prices.
Over the course of the year, metal increased the Groups effective tax rate by 4.7% in 2010 content and extracted ore at Kazakhmys Copper have declined 2009: 4.8%.
slightly, however, given the significant increases in commodity prices, particularly for copper, the Group has recognised an withholding taxes expense of $236 million in relation to MET within cost of sales, In previous periods, a withholding tax provision of $98 million compared to $164 million in 2009. was recognised for taxes payable on the unremitted earnings of subsidiaries in Kazakhstan.
In the second half of 2010, following transfer pricing an internal Group restructuring, no dividends are expected to be New transfer pricing legislation came into force on 1 January remitted from these earnings and as a result, the provision is no 2009.
This new legislation removed the 10% safe harbour longer appropriate.
Accordingly, the $98 million withholding tax provision which was permitted under the previous transfer provison has been released in 2010, reducing the Groups pricing legislation and replaced it with the concept of the arms effective tax rate by 6.2%.
However, this new legislation did not reflect the arms length concept which forms the underlying basis of Future tax rates transfer pricing legislation within many OECD countries.
Future tax rates are materially affected by the application of CIT and MET.
The CIT rate is frozen in Kazakhstan at 20% but In June 2010, amendments to Kazakhstans transfer as explained above, the Groups all-in effective tax rate will pricing legislation were passed into law and made largely be dependent on copper prices in the future given the retrospective from 1 January 2009.
The amendments clarified revenue-based nature of MET.
certain areas of ambiguity contained within the 2009 transfer pricing legislation.
A provision of $22 million has been Tax charge and cash tax cost CIT and MET recognised as at 31 December 2010 2009: $28 million where $ million external and intercompany sales contracts entered into during the year did not conform to the requirements of the amended 10 438 transfer pricing legislation.
The transfer pricing charge 10 595 increases the Groups effective tax rate by 1.4% 2009: 2.7%.
09 425 09 264 Tax charge Cash tax cost Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 53 for the year ended 31 December 2009 include Ekibastuz Discontinued operations GRES-1 and the Maikuben West coal mine for the full year.
As explained above in the Basis of preparation, the Kazakhmys Power Division and MKM have been classified Kazakhmys Power made an EBITDA excluding special items as being held for sale and as discontinued operations contribution of $58 million within discontinued operations, within the consolidated financial statements.
The EBITDA of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 joint venture, included within continuing $ million 2010 2009 operations, was $86 million, giving a combined contribution Kazakhmys Power from Ekibastuz GRES-1 of $122 million in 2010.
In the prior year, Ekibastuz GRES-1 contributed EBITDA of $120 million, Profit loss before tax excluding $2 million lower than in 2010 as the higher tariff ceiling and impairment losses 71 10 sales volumes more than offset the impact of the 50% Impairment losses 69 disposal in February 2010.
Taxation charge 12 5 At 31 December 2010, an impairment loss of $12 million Impairment loss on remeasurement has been recognised to write down the Maikuben West coal to fair value 12 mine to its fair value, being the expected sales proceeds from its disposal.
In 2009, an impairment loss of $69 million Profit loss for the year 47 84 was recognised to write down the Maikuben West coal mKm mine to its recoverable amount on a value-in-use basis.
Profit before tax excluding Kazakhmys Power recorded a net profit for 2010 whilst in impairment losses 74 49 2009 the division was loss making.
In the prior year the devaluation of the tenge in February 2009 resulted in Impairment losses 32 a $53 million foreign exchange loss and $69 million was Taxation credit charge 1 11 recognised as an impairment charge as detailed above.
Impairment loss on remeasurement Excluding the impact of the foreign exchange loss and to fair value 58 158 impairment charge, the profit before tax of Kazakhmys Power would have been $43 million in 2009.
Profit loss for the year 15 130 On 26 February 2010, the Group completed the disposal of Profit loss from 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 to Samruk-Kazyna for $681 million, discontinued operations 62 214 realising a gain on disposal of $14 million.
The gain consists of a $94 million excess of the proceeds over the net assets Following the announcement on 10 December 2009 that the disposed, a $196 million transfer from equity of the unrealised Group had agreed to dispose of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1, foreign exchange losses which arose on consolidation when a wholly owned subsidiary within the Kazakhmys Power the assets and liabilities of the tenge denominated Ekibastuz Division, it was classified along with MKM and the Maikuben GRES-1 were translated to US dollars, and a fair value gain West coal mine as being held for sale and as a discontinued of $116 million on the remeasurement of the 50% retained operation within the consolidated financial statements for interest which was subsequently treated as an equity 2009.
The partial disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 completed accounted joint venture.
on 26 February 2010 and the Group has retained a 50% non-controlling interest in the entity which is equity accounted mKm as a joint venture and included within continuing operations EBITDA excluding special items rose from $76 million in 2009 from that date.
to $81 million in 2010 as MKMs core markets recovered.
MKM increased sales of its higher margin products and maintained The profit after tax of the Kazakhmys Power Division classified tight control over costs.
Additionally, the upwards movement as being held for sale 100% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 for the period in copper price during 2010 led to a positive IFRS inventory to 26 February 2010 and the Maikuben West coal mine for the adjustment of $43 million compared to $58 million in 2009. twelve months ended 31 December 2010 and MKM, together with impairment losses and any write down to fair value, are The net profit of MKM was $15 million in 2010 as the included within the consolidated income statement as part improvement in business performance was offset by a pre-tax of the profit for the year from discontinued operations.
impairment loss of $58 million to remeasure MKMs net assets to fair value.
A deferred tax credit of $12 million was Kazakhmys Power recognised taking the post-tax MKM write off to $46 million.
As discussed above, Kazakhmys Powers results for the In 2009, MKM made a loss of $130 million which included an year ended 31 December 2010, in respect of discontinued impairment loss of $187 million to write down the business operations, includes 100% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 only for to its recoverable amount on a value-in-use basis and the period to 26 February 2010, the date the 50% disposal subsequently remeasuring MKMs net assets to fair value.
completed, and the Maikuben West coal mine for the full Partially offsetting the write down of $187 million in 2009 year.
Kazakhmys Powers results in discontinued operations was a $27 million deferred tax credit.
com Performance Review 54 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued underlying Profit $ million 2010 2009 Underlying Profit is seen as a more informed measure of Net profit loss attributable to equity the performance of the Group as it removes non-recurring or holders of the Company from variable non-trading items from the profit for the period, and discontinued operations 62 214 their resulting tax and minority interest impacts.
It therefore provides a more consistent basis for comparing the underlying Special items: trading performance of the Group between 2009 and 2010.
Impairment of goodwill 16 The Groups Underlying Profit for the year from continuing Impairment of other intangible assets 2 operations increased from $545 million to $1,383 million in 2010, as the Group benefited from significantly higher Impairment of property, plant prices and stronger equity accounted earnings from ENRC.
and equipment 26 150 The reconciliation of Underlying Profit from profit attributable Impairment of mining assets 36 to equity holders of the Company is set out below.
Provisions against inventories 44 52 $ million 2010 2009 Gain on disposal of share in subsidiary 14 Net profit attributable to equity Net foreign exchange loss arising on holders of the Company from devaluation of the tenge 53 continuing operations 1,388 768 Tax effect of non-recurring items 11 Special items: Release of deferred tax liabilities: Subsidiary businesses Impairment of MKM and Impairment of property, plant Maikuben West 12 34 and equipment 13 50 Release of deferred tax liabilities due Impairment of mining assets 23 to change in tax rates in Kazakhstan 7 Provisions released raised underlying Profit from against inventories 18 14 discontinued operations 106 57 Loss on disposal of property, plant total underlying Profit 1,489 602 and equipment 1 Major social projects 130 Associate Gain related to the acquisition of joint venture 77 Acquisition related transaction costs 19 Net foreign exchange gain arising on devaluation of the tenge: Subsidiary businesses 336 Associate 55 Tax effect of non-recurring items: Subsidiary businesses 2 52 Associate 11 Change in deferred tax liabilities: Release of deferred withholding tax liability 98 Impairment of Kazakhmys Gold 6 Change in tax rates in Kazakhstan: Subsidiary businesses 16 6 Associate 12 4 Minority interest effect of non-recurring items 1 underlying Profit from continuing operations 1,383 545 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 55 from ENRC during the year.
Subject to approval of the earnings per share shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 $ million unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 May 2011, the dividend shall be paid on 17 May 2011.
Net profit attributable to equity holders of the Company 1,450 554 Cash flows A summary of cash flows is shown below: Total Underlying Profit 1,489 602 Weighted average number of shares in $ million 2010 2009 issue million 534.7 535.1 segmental eBitDA before joint EPS basic and diluted $ 2.72 1.04 venture and associate 1,651 867 EPS based on Underlying Profit $ 2.79 1.13 Impairment losses 84 385 Loss on disposal of property, plant Basic earnings per share rose to $2.72 from $1.04, an increase and equipment 1 of 162% from continuing and discontinued operations.
Earnings per share based on Underlying Profit from continuing Share based payments 3 1 and discontinued operations was $2.79 compared to $1.13 for Dividends received from associate 62 84 the prior year.
Earnings per share based on Underlying Profit from continuing operations increased by 154% to $2.59.
Foreign exchange loss adjustment 8 25 1 The increase in the EPS measures is a result of the higher Working capital movements 49 216 underlying profitability of the Group during the period.
Interest paid 50 63 There have been no significant movements in the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period.
MET paid 230 120 Income tax paid 365 144 Key financial indicators net cash flows from operating activities 1,098 820 The definitions of our key financial indicators are shown in the Glossary and these measures, on a total Group basis including Sustaining capital expenditure 380 241 continuing and discontinued operations, are set out below: Free Cash Flow 718 579 Expansionary and new project $ million unless otherwise stated 2010 2009 capital expenditure 286 187 Group EBITDA excluding special items 2,835 1,634 Major social projects 60 EPS based on Underlying Profit $ 2.79 1.13 Interest received 10 10 Free Cash Flow 718 579 Dividends paid 80 Net cash cost of copper excluding Payment of deferred consideration purchased concentrate USc lb 89 72 arising on the acquisition of business 83 Advance payment of deferred Dividends consideration arising on the The policy established at the time of Listing was for the acquisition of business 102 Company to maintain a dividend policy which took into Proceeds from disposal of property, account the profitability of the business and underlying growth plant and equipment 16 14 in earnings of the Group, as well as its cash flows and growth requirements.
The Directors would also ensure that dividend Purchase of own shares 4 7 cover is prudently maintained.
Interim and final dividends will Cash disposed received in relation be paid in the approximate proportions of one-third and to disposal of subsidiary 107 681 two-thirds of the total annual dividend, respectively.
Other movements 10 14 The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 16.0 US cents per share, which together with the interim Cash flow movement in net debt 197 891 ordinary dividend of 6.0 US cents per ordinary share gives 1 Working capital movements exclude any accruals relating to MET.
a total full year ordinary dividend of 22.0 US cents per share 2009: 9.0 US cents per share based on the earnings for 2010.
The total ordinary dividend reflects an approximate 12% pay-out ratio of the Groups full year Underlying Profits as adjusted for the removal of ENRCs and Ekibastuz GRES-1s equity accounted earnings but including dividends received www.
com Performance Review 56 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued summary of the year Interest received is at similar levels to 2009 at $10 million Cash flows from operating activities were significantly stronger as larger average cash balances were offset by lower in 2010 compared to the prior year as the higher commodity credit interest rates during 2010. prices improved profitability.
In addition, a less adverse income taxes and mineral extraction tax working capital movement offset the higher sustaining capital In 2010, income taxes paid were $365 million, significantly expenditure.
Despite a significant increase in tax payments, above the $144 million paid in 2009.
This increase is primarily both for CIT and MET, Free Cash Flow, a key performance as a result of the improved earnings of the Group for the year indicator of the Groups ability to translate earnings into and the settlement of approximately $90 million in respect of cash flow, was $718 million compared to $579 million in 2009.
At 31 December 2010, Kazakhmys Copper had a net income tax receivable balance of approximately working capital $12 million due to payments on account made during 2010, Working capital levels for the Group increased by $49 million with the overall position of the Group being similar.
The adverse working capital movement is primarily due to: In addition to the income taxes paid during 2010, $230 million was paid in respect of MET.
Of the total MET expense inventory increases at Kazakhmys Copper of $83 million recognised of $236 million, $50 million remained unpaid as there was a build-up in work in progress in the fourth at 31 December 2010, and this was settled in early 2011. quarter of 2010 of material to be processed in 2011: a decrease of $66 million in prepayments and advances, Free Cash Flow resulting from the receipt of goods and services related The Groups Free Cash Flow of $718 million improved from to the Groups ongoing development projects: $579 million in the prior year as the higher earnings generated by the Group were offset by larger income tax and MET a positive movement in trade payables and other payables payments of $595 million compared with $264 million in 2009. of $191 million at Kazakhmys Copper, principally being the Capital expenditure accrual of $130 million related to the major social project The capital expenditure programme in 2009 had been scaled expenditure: back in response to the prevailing market conditions at the an increase in the level of trade receivables within the start of that year.
The 2010 capital programme was expanded Kazakhmys Copper Division of $118 million due to larger in light of the more favourable commodity prices with revenues in the latter part of the year and the timing of expenditure on sustaining the current business operations receipts: and increasing to $380 million from $241 million.
Expansionary and new project capital expenditure rose from $187 million a significant increase at MKM in the value of inventory of to $286 million.
The total capital expenditure incurred in $70 million and trade receivables of $25 million driven by the the year was $666 million, compared to $428 million in 2009. higher copper prices experienced in the second half of 2010.
The major items of expansionary capital expenditure during In the prior period, the negative working capital movement the period include the feasibility study on the sulphide ore at Kazakhmys Copper related to the build up of work in deposit at Bozshakol, the continued development of the progress which led to higher inventory levels, an increase in West Nurkazgan mine, geological and exploratory work at trade receivables reflecting higher prices and the negative East Nurkazgan, geological work at Zhomart phase 2 and final pricing adjustments of provisionally priced contracts drilling and assaying at the Akbastau and Kosmurun recorded at the beginning of 2009.
Additionally, in the prior development projects in Kazakhmys Copper.
In Kazakhmys period, MKM recorded a negative working capital movement Gold, expenditure on construction and equipment relating of $118 million as the value of its inventory and receivables to the development of the Bozymchak project was incurred.
rose, reflecting movements in the copper price.
At Kazakhmys Petroleum, exploration work on the existing Despite these adverse working capital movements, working wells continued during 2010. capital levels continue to be tightly controlled and managed Sustaining capital expenditure within Kazakhmys Copper across all of the Groups businesses.
included expenditure on the smelters and concentrators interest cash flows to maintain output levels, and the purchase of new mining Interest paid during the year was $50 million, $13 million below equipment to improve availability.
The decrease in interest payments primarily Additionally, as part of the Groups social development relates to the PXF where a lower average effective interest rate programme, $60 million has been spent on major social and the lower principal outstanding saw interest payments fall.
projects in Kazakhstan, with the balance of $70 million The interest on the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing line is to be settled in 2011. payable bi-annually.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 investing cash flows Balance sheet The most significant investing cash flows during the two summary of movements periods relate to deferred payments for the acquisition of As at 31 December 2010, the equity attributable to owners Ekibastuz GRES-1 in 2009, and the subsequent disposal of of the Company was $8,206 million, compared to $6,582 million 50% in Ekibastuz GRES-1 in 2010.
In 2009, the net cash inflow as at 31 December 2009, an increase of $1,624 million, as related to the Ekibastuz GRES-1 acquisition and 50% disposal the Groups retained earnings grew due to the profitability in was $496 million compared to a $107 million outflow in 2010, the year.
The slight appreciation of the tenge over the year to resulting from the deconsolidation of Ekibastuz GRES-1s net 31 December 2010 has led to a non-cash gain of $31 million funds position following the 50% disposal of Ekibastuz GRES-1 being recognised in the foreign currency translation reserve in February 2010. within equity.
The non-cash gain arises due to the retranslation on consolidation of the Groups Kazakhstan based subsidiaries In the prior year, the Group paid $83 million in April 2009 under whose functional currency is the tenge.
Whilst the Group was the earnout agreement relating to the 2008 financial year, and profitable for the year ended 31 December 2009, the impact in October 2009 the Group paid an additional $102 million of the devaluation of the tenge gave rise to a non-cash foreign to AES Corporation under the termination agreement.
In exchange loss within equity of $1,133 million which reduced December 2009 the Group received the $681 million sales the Groups equity attributable to owners of the Company proceeds as a prepayment from Samruk-Kazyna.
Dividends received The Groups capital employed position at 31 December 2010 The Group received dividends of $62 million from ENRC is shown below: in 2010, compared to $84 million in 2009, representing the final 2009 dividend and the 2010 interim dividend of ENRC.
$ million 2010 2009 As explained on page 50, dividends received have been credited against the carrying value of the investment in Equity attributable to owners of ENRC and are not included within earnings.
the Company 8,206 6,582 Dividends paid Non-controlling interests 13 13 The Group paid ordinary dividends of $80 million in 2010 Borrowings 1,819 1,650 representing the final 2009 dividend of $48 million and the 2010 interim dividend of $32 million.
Capital employed 10,038 8,245 Reconciliation of Segmental EBITDA enRC to Free Cash Flow $ million Included on the Groups consolidated balance sheet at 1,651 1 31 December 2010, as an investment in associate, is the 84 2 Groups 26% investment in ENRC, with a carrying value of 3 3 $4,356 million compared to $3,869 million at 31 December 8 4 49 5 2009.
The Groups share of equity accounted earnings of 50 6 $522 million 2009: $223 million for the year has been offset 7 365 by $62 million 2009: $84 million of dividends received 8 230 from ENRC in 2010 and the share of gains of the associate 9 62 recognised within equity of $27 million 2009: losses of 10 380 $315 million.
In 2009, the most significant portion of the 11 718 losses recognised in equity related to the non-cash foreign 1 Segmental EBITDA 2 Write-offs, impairment losses and xed assets disposal losses exchange loss arising on the devaluation of the tenge and 3 Share based payments the resulting impact on ENRCs net assets.
4 Foreign exchange loss adjustment 5 Working capital movements At 31 December 2010, the ENRC shareholding had a market 6 Interest paid value of $5,431 million 2009: $4,879 million based on the 7 Income tax paid public price quotation on the London Stock Exchange.
8 Mineral extraction tax paid 9 Dividends received from associate ekibastuz gRes-1 Kazakhmys Power 10 Sustaining capital expenditure Following the completion of the sale of 50% of Ekibastuz 11 Free Cash Flow GRES-1 to Samruk-Kazyna on 26 February 2010, the Groups retained 50% interest is included on the consolidated balance sheet within investment in joint venture at a carrying value of $742 million.
The carrying value of the investment represents the fair value of 50% of Ekibastuz GRES-1 at acquisition, being the deemed cost at 26 February 2010 of $703 million, and the Groups share of the subsequent post-tax profits and equity movements of $39 million.
com Performance Review 58 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued net debt In order to manage counterparty and liquidity risk, surplus Net debt consists of cash and cash equivalents, current funds within the Group are held predominantly in the investments and borrowings.
A summary of the net debt UK and funds remaining in Kazakhstan are utilised mainly position of continuing operations is shown below: for working capital purposes.
The funds in the UK are held primarily with major European and US financial institutions with minimum ratings of Standard & Poors Aand Moodys $ million 2010 2009 A3 and triple-A rated liquidity funds.
At 31 December 2010, Cash and cash equivalents 1,113 903 $1,292 million 2009: $776 million of cash and short-term Current investments 356 58 deposits were held in the UK, with $177 million 2009: $181 million being held in Kazakhstan.
Borrowings 1,819 1,650 1 net debt 350 689 Analysis of debt $ million 1 Excludes MKM and Kazakhmys Power.
10 350 The Groups net debt position net of capitalised 09 689 arrangement fees of $18 million and excluding discontinued operations was $350 million compared with $689 million at 31 December 2009.
The strong revenue-driven cash inflows in Cash and cash equivalents Current investments 2010 reduced the Groups net debt position as the cash flows Borrowings generated were sufficient to support the capital expenditure programme, fulfil the Groups tax payments during the year Discontinued operations and strengthen the Groups liquidity position.
The net debt As explained in the Basis of preparation, Kazakhmys Power of MKM and the Maikuben West coal mine at 31 December 2010 and MKM have been classified as being held for sale and was $178 million 2009: $115 million.
as discontinued operations within the consolidated financial statements.
As a result of this classification, the assets and Gross debt of continuing operations stood at $1,819 million liabilities of these divisions are separately shown within the compared to $1,650 million at 31 December 2009, an consolidated balance sheet as single line items within current increase of $169 million following the draw down of assets and current liabilities.
Current assets include $382 million $700 million $688 million net of fees under the $2.7 billion in respect of assets classified as held for sale, relating to the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing line which was signed in assets of MKM and the Maikuben West coal mine part of December 2009, offset by the continued monthly repayment Kazakhmys Power.
The decrease in the current assets from of $44 million under the PXF.
These monthly repayments $1,615 million at 31 December 2009, relates to the disposal have reduced the amount outstanding under the PXF by of 50% of the assets of Ekibastuz GRES-1 and the transfer of the $525 million during the year.
Of the funds drawn under the remaining 50% of its assets to investment in joint venture, within CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing line, $400 million has been continuing operations.
The principal components of current allocated to the Bozshakol project, $100 million for the assets include inventory and trade receivables balances at MKM development of the Bozymchak project, the gold copper of $200 million and $137 million, respectively.
Current liabilities deposit in Kyrgyzstan, and $200 million is intended for include $300 million of liabilities directly associated with assets the future development of the Groups mid-size projects classified as held for sale, the main component of which is in Kazakhstan.
borrowings within MKM of $191 million.
As with the current assets, the liabilities of Ekibastuz GRES-1 were all derecognised The Group has available several revolving credit facilities for when the disposal completed in February 2010. general corporate purposes and to provide standby liquidity.
At 31 December 2010 all such facilities were undrawn.
Of the MKM has a trade finance facility of 170 million for a three corporate credit facilities of $300 million entered into by the year period with interest being payable on drawn balances Group, facilities amounting to $250 million have maturity at a rate of EURIBOR plus 3.00%.
The facility amortises dates in March 2013 and a facility amounting to $50 million over a 12 month period after June 2011 based on the drawn has a maturity date in September 2011. balance as at 31 May 2011.
At 31 December 2010, borrowings under this facility were $191 million, up from $157 million Cash and short-term deposits current investments of the at 31 December 2009, as a result of higher working capital Groups continuing businesses as at 31 December 2010 were requirements due to rising copper prices towards the $1,469 million, an increase from $961 million at 31 December end of the year.
The increase is attributed to higher cash inflows from operating activities coupled with the proceeds from borrowings drawn under the CDB Samruk-Kazyna financing line, partially taxation offset by continued monthly repayments under the PXF.
Of tax strategy and risk management the cash and short-term deposits as at 31 December 2010, The Group is subject to taxation in the UK, Kazakhstan approximately $500 million is reserved under the CDB and the various foreign countries in which it operates.
Tax Samruk-Kazyna financing line for the development of the legislation of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates Groups projects under the terms of the individual facility differs and is subject to interpretation by management and agreements, with the balance being available to meet the government authorities, and as such, creates a risk of working capital needs and general corporate purposes.
non-compliance with specific tax requirements.
Whilst the Directors believe that the Group is in substantial compliance Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 with tax legislation and contractual terms entered into that the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas relate to tax, the absence of established case history, the of business are fully considered before proceeding: complexity and judgemental nature of tax legislation in the half year and annual effective tax rate and the certain jurisdictions result in additional risk for the Group.
composition of the tax charge are reviewed by the Specific areas of interpretation include the applicability of Audit Committee as part of their remit in reviewing stabilisation under the Groups operating licences, including the half-yearly and annual reports: subsoil use contracts, the applicability of excess profits tax to the Groups mining and processing operations and the the Group builds an equitable relationship with the structuring of cross border transactions, particularly in tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates: respect of the application of transfer pricing policies.
the Group takes appropriate tax advice from reputable The Groups core objectives in managing and controlling professional firms: its tax affairs and related tax risks are as follows: where disputes arise with government authorities ensuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations with regard to the interpretation and application of tax in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates: and legislation, the Group is committed to addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the relevant structuring the business in the most efficient and tax authority in an open and constructive manner: and transparent manner with the emphasis being on the maximisation of shareholder value.
the Group employs professional tax managers within the corporate head office and the operating businesses, and The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to provides ongoing technical training to them.
the management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risks, and has therefore adopted a tax strategy, which has been total tax contribution approved by the Board, that is aimed at achieving the objectives, During 2010, the Group including 100% of the joint venture, thereby aligning it with the Groups long-term strategy: Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP paid $879 million 2009: $517 million in taxes across the countries in which it has a presence.
the Groups tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups Company taxes, such as corporate income taxes, MET, formal governance processes and are reviewed by the excess profits tax, environmental taxes and employer taxes, Chief Financial Officer who reports them to the Audit comprised $766 million 2009: $420 million of this total.
Committee on a regular basis: In addition, the Group indirectly contributed $113 million significant tax risks, implications arising from those 2009: $97 million in employee taxes and withholding taxes risks and potential mitigating actions are considered primarily on interest payments and dividends, which the by the Board when strategic decisions are being taken: Group collected on behalf of government authorities and paid over to them.
taxes paid directly to governments by category and region by the groups subsidiaries and joint venture Central 2010 2009 1 $ million Asia UK Germany total total taxes paid Corporate income taxes including excess profits tax 384 6 390 144 MET 230 230 120 Payroll taxes employers obligations 41 2 10 53 48 Customs and stamp duties 21 21 23 Taxes on properties 22 22 25 Environmental payments 44 44 57 Miscellaneous taxes 5 1 6 3 747 8 11 766 420 taxes collected and remitted Withholding taxes on dividends, interest and services 12 12 24 13 Payroll taxes employees obligations 68 5 16 89 84 80 17 16 113 97 total 827 25 27 879 517 1 Includes Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan and includes 100% of the Ekibastuz GRES-1 LLP joint venture for the year.
com Performance Review 60 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued Commodity prices Financial risk management The Groups mining revenues and earnings are directly Background impacted by fluctuations in the prices of the commodities it The Board is committed to maintaining a high standard produces.
The Groups principal commodities copper, zinc, of financial risk management within the Group.
The Groups gold and silver are priced via reference to global metal policies with regard to financial risk management are clearly exchanges, upon which pricing is derived from global demand defined and consistently applied.
and supply and influenced by macroeconomic considerations The Groups principal business is the identification, extraction and financial investment cash flows.
The pricing of the Groups and processing of mineral resources.
The Group does not principal commodities may also include a pre-determined engage in trading activities and sales contracts are generally margin or discount depending on the terms of sales contracts.
negotiated with trading companies or end users.
The pricing Commodity prices, particularly those derived from global basis applied in all sales contracts is referenced to prevailing metal exchanges, may fluctuate significantly and may have market benchmarks such as the official settlement prices a material impact on the Groups financial results.
In general, the policy of the Group is The Group manages potential downside commodity price not to hedge the underlying price exposure to its principal risk by focusing on maintaining its low cost producer status commodities, although in periods of high uncertainty or and also through the wider strategy of revenue diversification.
volatility the Group may consider some hedging of revenue Management closely monitors the impact of fluctuations in and cost items in order to reduce volatility or risk on the commodity prices on the business and uses conservative Groups cash flows.
The Board may in certain circumstances pricing assumptions and sensitivity analysis for its forecasting authorise commodity hedging in order to guarantee the and investment appraisals.
longer-term viability of certain marginal cost operations or to satisfy the specific covenant requirements of independently MKM is exposed to fluctuations in the price of the metal financed development projects.
content of its products to the extent that metal purchases price at different dates from finished goods sales.
MKM uses Additionally, in limited circumstances where it is not the natural hedge provided by the back-to-back pricing of possible to structure intra-group commodity transactions purchases and sales on its ongoing operations to manage this on back-to-back pricing terms, commodity hedges may pricing exposure.
Where there are temporary mismatches in be used to reduce the Groups exposure to short-term volumes, commodity futures are used on a limited basis to price fluctuations.
ensure MKMs economic position is not materially impacted The Group has an investment of 26% in ENRC, a company by metal price movements.
which is also exposed to similar financial risks as shown The Power business positions the Group as a significant net below.
The impact of these risks on ENRC will impact on generator in the Kazakhstan power market.
The Kazakh power its dividend stream and its own market capitalisation.
market has a predominance of large industrial electricity users Responsibility for financial risk management is undertaken focused on the natural resource sector, and consequently, primarily by the Groups centralised Treasury function, electricity demand tends to broadly follow the commodity operating under oversight of a Treasury Committee which cycle.
Power tariffs are derived through a complex interaction is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
of regional demand and supply imbalances, tempered by specific regulatory interventions to minimise the inflationary The significant risks identified by Kazakhmys that could pressure on domestic electricity users.
The Group sells its materially affect the Groups financial conditions, performance, power to a mix of wholesale and industrial customers through strategy and prospects are set out in the Risk Factors section directly negotiated bilateral contracts.
Details of the Groups system of internal encourage investment in the power sector, the Government control is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on introduced a framework to raise tariff ceilings for domestic pages 64 to 79. electricity sales for the years 2009 to 2015.
The ceiling prices will be set by the Ministry of Industry and New Technologies Financial risks on an annual basis, and are subject to the generator meeting The principal financial risks arising from the Groups activities capital investment commitments.
are those relating to commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, counterparty credit risk, liquidity risks and capital structure.
The Group does not engage in any transactions of a speculative nature.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 Foreign currency risk and transfer of title of the goods for sales to European The presentational currency of the Group is the US dollar, customers.
Sales to Chinese customers are made under consistent with the pricing currency of the majority of the letters of credit which are obtained prior to delivery and Groups revenue.
Where possible, the Group, excluding transfer of title of the goods.
MKM manages its customer MKM, attempts to conduct its business, maintains its credit risk with debtor insurance.
The Kazakhmys Power monetary assets and seeks to source corporate debt Division receives cash upfront or has short payment terms capital in US dollars so as to minimise its exposure to depending on the nature of the customer.
The Group retains surplus cash balances The Groups cash management policies emphasise in US dollars for capital expenditure, acquisitions and returns security and liquidity of funds ahead of investment return.
Working capital balances are maintained The Groups surplus funds held outside Kazakhstan are in a mix of US dollars and local currencies depending on predominantly invested in US dollars.
Investments of cash short-term requirements of the business.
and deposits are made only with approved counterparties of high credit worthiness and within credit limits assigned Whilst there is a strong correlation between many mining to each counterparty.
In order to manage counterparty input costs and the US dollar, a significant portion of the and liquidity risk, surplus funds within the Group are held mining business operating costs are denominated in predominantly in the UK and funds remaining in Kazakhstan local currencies, particularly the Kazakhstan tenge.
Rates are utilised mainly for working capital purposes, with the of exchange for these currencies relative to the US dollar funds in the UK being held primarily with major European could fluctuate significantly and may materially impact and US financial institutions.
These limits are reviewed on the profitability of the underlying operations and the net a regular basis to take account of developments in financial assets of the Group.
The limits are set to Due to its geographic location, MKM conducts its business minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate in Euros and seeks to price its revenues in that currency, any financial loss through potential counterparty failure.
being also the currency in which the majority of its Exposures are measured against maximum credit limits operational costs are denominated.
The Group is exposed assigned to each approved counterparty to ensure credit on its net investment in MKM to the extent that movements risk is effectively managed.
in the Euro may make that investment more or less valuable.
The Group must maintain a level of cash and deposits in The Group seeks to mitigate that risk by raising MKMs debt Kazakhstan with local branches of international financial financing in Euros, thus matching the negative exposure institutions and well established local Kazakhstan banks.
of the debt servicing against the positive exposure of The Group limits its local cash and deposits to working the revenue.
From time to time, acquisitions and capital investments may expose the Group to movements in other currencies Liquidity and capital management and the Group will consider hedging such exposures on The Groups objectives with regard to managing its liquidity a case by case basis.
and capital structure are to safeguard the business as a going concern, to maximise returns for shareholders and benefits interest rate risk for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital The Groups interest rate management policy is generally structure in order to lower the overall cost of capital.
to borrow and invest at floating interest rates.
In some The Group does not have a target debt equity ratio, but circumstances, an element of fixed rate funding may be has determined a maximum debt capacity based on a ratio considered appropriate.
Hedging via interest rate swaps or of long-term normalised EBITDA which the Board believes similar instruments may be undertaken during periods where establishes a sustainable level of gearing through the the Groups exposure to movements in short-term interest commodity cycle.
This ratio is reviewed in conjunction rates is more significant, or in periods when interest rates are with market conditions and prevailing commodity prices in perceived to be below long-term historical averages.
order to ensure an efficient capital structure that is balanced Counterparty credit risk against the risks of carrying excessive leverage.
The Group The Group is exposed to counterparty credit risk on balances manages net debt to ensure that it does not exceed two and commitments due from third parties.
The Group has times normalised EBITDA through the commodity cycle, adopted policies and procedures to control and monitor where normalised EBITDA excludes special items and equity the distribution of these exposures to minimise the risk accounted earnings from ENRC and Ekibastuz GRES-1 from of loss in the event of non-performance by counterparties.
Included within the debt facilities are financial covenants related to maximum borrowing levels The Groups mining business protects its exposure to customer determined by reference to Net Debt to EBITDA and Debt credit risk by maintaining strong business relationships with to Equity ratios and minimum tangible net worth for which customers and through a combination of documentary credit compliance certificates are produced.
instruments and requiring payment prior to delivery.
Within the Kazakhmys Copper Division, cash is received prior to delivery The Group maintains back-up liquidity for debt maturing within 12 months by way of committed revolving credit facilities totalling $300 million and by maintaining cash on the balance sheet.
com Performance Review 62 Directors Report: Business Review Financial Review continued equity accounting summary of critical accounting policies At 31 December 2010, the Group owned 26% of ENRC PLC, summary a Kazakhstan-based mining company listed on the London Inherent in the application of many of the accounting policies Stock Exchange.
The investment has been recorded as an used in preparing the financial statements is the need for associate and accounted for under the equity method as the Directors to exercise judgement and to make estimates the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets ENRC as prescribed by IAS 28 Investments in Associates.
and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the The Groups interest in the net assets of ENRC is included in reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the Investments in associates in the consolidated balance sheet reporting period.
Actual outcomes could differ from the and its interest in the results of ENRC, net of tax, is included estimates and assumptions used.
in the consolidated income statement in Share of profits Set out in note 2 i on page 105 are the key judgements which from associate below operating profit.
The Directors have the Directors believe are likely to have the most significant applied judgement in determining that the Group has the effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
ability to exercise significant influence over ENRC.
The following summary provides more information about the useful economic lives and ore reserve estimates critical accounting policies and their application as opposed The Groups mining assets, classified within tangible assets, to the specific judgements set out in note 2 i that could have are depreciated using the unit of production method over the a significant impact on the results of the Group and should be estimated economically recoverable reserves to which they read in conjunction with the notes to the financial statements.
relate, or over a shorter period prior to the depletion of the impairment of assets reserves having regard to the assets physical life limitation.
The Group reviews the carrying value of its non-current The estimation process for recoverable reserves is complex investments to determine whether there is any indication and involves significant judgement and assumptions relating that those assets are impaired.
The assessment of whether to the life of the mine and ore reserves may change when new an indicator of impairment has arisen can require considerable information becomes available.
These assumptions include a judgement, taking account of future operational and financial range of geological, technical and economic factors, including plans, commodity prices, sales demand and the competitive quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, environment.
In making these assessments for impairment, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, assets that do not generate independent cash flows are commodity prices, exchange rates, processing and reclamation allocated to an appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
The costs and discount rates.
The actual volume of ore extracted recoverable amount of those assets, or CGUs, is measured and any changes in these assumptions, which may vary from at the higher of their fair value less costs to sell and value in period to period, are accounted for prospectively as they could use and requires significant estimates and assumptions to affect future depreciation rates and carrying values.
A review of be made about future cash flows.
If the carrying amount of the the Groups reserves and resources is undertaken on an annual cash generating unit or asset exceeds its recoverable amount, basis by an independent competent person in accordance then an impairment provision is recognised to write down the with the Australasian Code for Reporting of Exploration carrying value of the cash generating unit or the asset to its Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves of December recoverable amount.
Since five years have elapsed since the last audit of reserves and resources was conducted at the time Management applies judgement in allocating assets to CGUs, of Listing, an audit of the Groups reserves and resources by an in estimating the probability, timing and value of underlying independent competent person was commissioned in 2010. cash flows and in selecting appropriate discount rates to The scope of the audit can be found on page 175. be applied within the value in use calculation.
Subsequent changes to CGU allocation or estimates and assumptions in The majority of other items of property, plant and equipment the value in use calculation could impact the carrying value are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their useful of the respective assets.
Management reviews the appropriateness of useful economic lives at least annually and any changes could Notes 5 and 8 commencing on page 116 and 128, affect prospective depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
respectively, show the impairment charges recognised in the year.
exploration and evaluation expenditure The Groups accounting policy for exploration and evaluation expenditure results in certain items of expenditure being capitalised for an area of interest where it is considered likely to be recoverable by future exploitation or sale or where the activities have not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of reserves.
This policy requires the Directors to make certain estimates and assumptions as to future events and circumstances, in particular whether an economically viable extraction Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 63 operation can be established.
Any such estimates and non-current assets held for sale and assumptions may change as new information becomes discontinued operations available.
If, after having capitalised the expenditure under Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held this accounting policy, a judgement is made that recovery for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered through of the expenditure is unlikely for reasons such as failure to a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This renew the licences or permits or indications that commercial condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly recovery of the related reserves would not be achieved, probable and the assets or disposal groups are available for the relevant capitalised amount will be written off to the immediate sale in their present condition.
The Group must income statement.
be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year As at 31 December 2010, the most significant asset where of the date of classification.
the Directors have applied their judgement in the area of exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to Kazakhmys Non-current assets or disposal groups held for sale are Petroleum and the ongoing exploration and evaluation carried at the lower of the carrying amount prior to being programme being undertaken.
Note 2 i on page 106 sets classified as held for sale, and the fair value less costs to sell.
out the considerations which the Directors have applied in A non-current asset is not depreciated while classified as exercising their judgement on this asset which has a carrying held for sale.
A non-current asset held for sale is presented value of $564 million as at 31 December 2010. separately in the balance sheet.
The assets and liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale are presented Contingencies separately as one line in the assets and liabilities sections Material contingencies facing the Group are set out in note on the face of the balance sheet.
36 of the financial statements commencing on page 154.
A contingent liability arises where: An asset or business is considered to be a discontinued operation if it has been sold or is classified as held for sale a past event has taken place for which the outcome will and is part of a single coordinated plan to dispose of either be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence a separate major line of business or is a subsidiary acquired of one or more uncertain events outside of the control exclusively with a view to sale.
Once an operation has been of the Group: or identified as discontinued, its net profit is presented separately a present obligation exists but is not recognised because from continuing operations.
Comparative information is it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be reclassified so that net profit of prior periods are also required to settle the obligation.
In 2009, MKM and the Maikuben West coal mine were A provision is made when a loss to the Group is likely to considered by the Directors as non-current assets held for sale crystallise.
The assessment of the existence of a contingency and discontinued operations based on criteria prescribed by the and its likely outcome, particularly if it is considered that a relevant accounting standard.
However, as these disposals had provision might be necessary, involves significant judgement not completed by 31 December 2010 the Directors have had to taking all relevant factors into account.
As laws and exercise their judgement in respect of the continued treatment regulations in Kazakhstan continue to evolve, for example, of these businesses as non-current assets held for sale and in the areas of taxation, environment and subsoil rights, discontinued operations.
The Directors judgements are detailed uncertainties regarding contingencies are greater than in note 2 i and note 5 on pages 107 and 116, respectively.
typically found in countries with more developed legal and regulatory frameworks.
During 2010, the Directors have been required to exercise their judgement over the applicability of stabilised environmental rates under the terms of the Groups operating licences, including subsoil use contracts.
Notes 31 and 36 on pages 146 and 154 respectively, set out the considerations which the Directors have applied in reaching their judgement as to the level of provisioning required for environmental payments relating to past periods.
com Performance Review 64 Directors Report: Governance Governance Framework Committed to high standards of corporate governance Following its review of the Combined Code in 2009, the FRC Philip Aiken published the UK Corporate Governance Code the New Senior Independent Director Code in June 2010 which supersedes the Combined Code and applies to companies with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange with accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010, which for Kazakhmys is the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company is currently reviewing the provisions of the New Code and considering how best it can comply with all of the recommendations The Board is committed to high standards to ensure the continued successful operation of its business of corporate governance in its management and will report fully on its compliance with the New Code of the affairs of the Group and in its in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the accountability to shareholders.
This section of the Annual Report and Accounts has been The Companys policies on corporate direction and control prepared in accordance with the Combined Code on ensure that the Company applies all of the principles of Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting good governance contained in the Combined Code to Council FRC in June 2008 the Combined Code which the organisational structure it has adopted to conduct applies to the Companys Annual Report and Accounts its business, its remuneration policy, its relations with its for the year ended 31 December 2010. shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its financial reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
Board of Directors Vladimir Kim 50 Oleg Novachuk 40 David Munro 55 Lord Renwick of Clifton, Philip Aiken 62 KCMG 73 Chairman Chief Executive Development Director Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment: Appointment: Appointment: Joined the Group in 1995 and Joined the Group in 2001 and Joined the Group in 2005 Appointment: 2005 Appointment: 2006 as a non-executive Director became Chairman in 2005. was appointed Chief Executive Committee membership: Committee membership: in 2007, having been Finance and now Development Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Group Health, Director, having previously Director since 2005.
Chairman of the Committee and a member of Safety and Environment been Strategy Director.
Skills and experience: the Nomination Committee.
Committee and a member will retire as a Director at the He was formerly vice of the Nomination and Skills and experience: Skills and experience: conclusion of the forthcoming president of financial projects Remuneration Committees.
He was appointed managing He is deputy chairman of Annual General Meeting.
for Kazakhmys Corporation LLC director and chief executive Fleming Family & Partners Skills and experience: and the financial adviser to Committee membership: of cer of Zhezkazgantsvetmet Limited and a non-executive He is chairman of the president of Kazakhmys Member of the Group JSC in 1995 and was elected director of Compagnie Robert Walters plc, and a Corporation LLC, and chairman Health, Safety and chairman of the board of Financire Richemont SA non-executive director of of the board of directors of Environment Committee.
directors of that company and Vallar PLC.
He was National Grid PLC, Miclyn Kazprombank JSC.
Skills and experience: formerly British Ambassador Express Offshore Limited He is a non-executive to the United States and and Essar Energy plc.
He director of Lonmin Plc and to South Africa, and a was formerly president, UK was formerly chief executive non-executive director of of BHP Billiton plc, having of RMC Group plc, chief SABMiller plc, BHP Billiton plc, previously been group development of cer of British Airways plc and Liberty president of BHP Billitons BHP Billiton plc and an International plc.
He is vice energy business, president, executive director of chairman, Investment Banking BHP Billiton Petroleum, an Billiton plc responsible of J. P. Morgan Europe executive director of BTR plc for its global aluminium and vice chairman of and held a number of senior and base metals businesses.
positions in BOC Group plc.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 65 During the year, the terms of reference of the Board and its Directors experience backgrounds committees, and a number of other policies and procedures were reviewed and updated to ensure they comply with the Metals and mining 78% provisions of the New Code and to meet best practice.
All these Power 22% policies and procedures were brought together into a single Oil and gas 22% document entitled Group Policy Guidelines on Corporate Finance 56% Governance with the aim of better promoting a culture of pragmatic corporate governance through raising awareness of the policies and procedures amongst senior management.
The Board consists of Directors of different ages with a wide range of skills and business experience from a number of industries, which is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to enable different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
Furthermore, the Board comprises a Directors nationality range of nationalities, which brings cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences and viewpoints.
The British 4 combination of these factors means that the Board bene ts Kazakh 3 from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives and Australian 2 thoughts, avoids group think and provides a dynamic environment for decision making.
Simon Heale 57 Daulet Yergozhin 31 Peter Hickson 65 Clinton Dines 53 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: 2009 Appointment: 2007 Appointment: 2008 Appointment: 2009 Committee membership: Skills and experience: Committee membership: Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Head of the Tax Committee of Member of the Audit and Member of the Audit and Committee and a member the Ministry of Finance of the Group Health, Safety and Group Health, Safety and of the Nomination and Republic of Kazakhstan since Environment Committees.
October 2008, having held a will retire as a Director at the Skills and experience: number of other governmental conclusion of the forthcoming Skills and experience: He is executive chairman Asia of positions since early 2006.
He is a non-executive director Caledonia Private Investments was formerly a non-executive of The Morgan Crucible Skills and experience: Pty Limited and a non-executive director of ENRC PLC.
Prior Company plc, Panmure He is chairman of Communisis director of Zanaga Iron Ore to his governmental Gordon & Co plc, Marex plc and Chemring Group PLC, Company Limited.
He has been appointments, he was deputy Group Limited and PZ Cussons and senior independent director involved in business in China director of the North-Caspian plc.
He was formerly chief of London & Continental Railways since 1980, including senior project department of JSC NC executive of The London Metal Limited.
He was previously positions with the Jardine KazMunaiGas before moving to Exchange, chief operating chairman of Anglian Water Matheson Group, Santa Fe a deputy director general role of cer of Jardine Fleming Group Limited, group finance Transport Group and Asia in JSC Offshore Oil Company Limited and deputy managing director of Powergen plc and a Securities Venture Capital.
In KazMunayTeniz, a subsidiary director of Cathay Paci c non-executive director of Telent 1988, he joined BHP as their of JSC KazMunaiGas.
He is also a trustee plc, Scottish Power plc and RAC senior executive in China and, previously worked for of Macmillan Cancer Support.
He is also a trustee of ORBIS following the merger of BHP KazTransOil JSC.
Charitable Trust and a director and Billiton in 2001, he became of ORBIS International Inc. president, BHP Billiton China, a position from which he retired in 2009 prior to his appointment with Kazakhmys.
com Corporate Governance 66 Directors Report: Governance governance Framework continued The rest of this section of the Annual Report and Accounts matters reserved for the Board explains in more detail how the Company applied the Key matters reserved for the Board include the approval of: principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code, and also gives further details of the matters the Board the Groups strategy, and medium and short-term plans: and its committees considered during the financial year.
major acquisitions, mergers or disposals: Combined Code compliance the annual budget: During the year, the Company has complied fully with the the Groups risk management strategy and policy provisions of the Combined Code, save in the respect that the on insurance: Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
This arises due to Vladimir Kims significant shareholding in health, safety, environmental and ethical policies: the Company.
Vladimir Kim joined the Group in 1995 and major capital investments and projects: has made a major contribution to its development into an international company.
The Board is unanimously of the the Companys dividend policy: opinion that his continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
the appointment and removal of any Directors of the Company: the Board the authorisation of Directors conflicts or potential The Board is responsible for managing the Company on conflicts of interest: behalf of its shareholders and each Director must act in the Board and its committees performance a way that he considers promotes the long-term success evaluation process: of the Company for the benefit of those shareholders as a whole.
The Board also ensures that an appropriate balance the Annual Report and Accounts and half-yearly reports: between promoting long-term growth and delivering all circulars, reports, prospectuses or other related short-term objectives is achieved.
documents for shareholders: The Board is primarily responsible for determining strategic the principal regulatory filings with stock exchanges: direction and demonstrating leadership: focusing on matters that consistently add value for the shareholders of the the rules and procedures for dealing in the Companys Company, both present and future: the governance and shares: and stewardship of the Group providing protection and security the appointment or removal of the Companys external for the shareholders assets: the management of the Groups auditor and main financial, legal and technical advisers.
employees: setting the Companys standards and values, and ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and others are understood and met: and determining the nature and Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned extent of the significant risks the Group is willing to take to honesty and integrity, a willingness to question, challenge achieve its strategic objectives.
Another key responsibility of and critique, and a desire to understand and commit to the the Board is to ensure that management maintains a system highest standards of governance.
Each Director must ensure of internal control that provides assurance of effective and that no decision or action is taken that places his interests efficient operations, internal financial controls and in front of the interests of the business.
Directors commit compliance with law and regulation.
to the collective decision-making processes of the Board.
Individual Directors are required to debate issues openly The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically and constructively and be free to question or challenge reserved for its decision.
A summary of the matters reserved the opinions of others.
for the Board is set out opposite.
These are matters that are significant to the Group as a whole because of their strategic, The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible financial or reputational implications or consequences.
The for advising the Board on all governance matters and for Board has four principal committees to deal with specific ensuring that Board procedures are followed, that applicable aspects of the Groups affairs.
The chairmen of the Board rules and regulations are complied with and that due account committees report regularly to the Board on the matters is taken of relevant codes of best practice.
The Company discussed at the Board committees, thereby ensuring that Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information all Directors have visibility and the opportunity to discuss flows within the Board and its Committees and between such matters.
senior management and non-executive Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2010 67 Roles and responsibilities Role of the Chairman recommending to the Board an annual budget and The key roles and responsibilities of the Chairman include: three year financial and production plan: ensuring the creation and maintenance of a safe working responsibility to the Board for the performance of environment and a safety-focused culture within the the business consistent with agreed plans, strategies Groups operations: and policies: ensuring the effective operation of the Board and its developing and promoting effective communication Committees in conformity with the highest standards with shareholders and other interested parties: of corporate governance: ensuring that the Groups operations comply with all promoting the interests of the Company especially with relevant health and safety standards and activities are regard to continuing Group planning and development undertaken with special regard for environmental and social to secure a progressive future: concerns in the countries in which the Group operates: providing leadership to the Board, setting its agenda, ensuring at all times the Group conducts its business in style and tone of meeting discussions to promote open accordance with the legal requirements of the countries in and constructive debate and effective decision making: which it operates and the Companys standards, if higher: setting a vision for the Group and formulation of its strategy: establishing a senior management team which has the knowledge, skills, attitude and motivation to achieve the ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees Groups business objectives both now and in the future: and individual Directors is formally evaluated on an annual basis, with an external evaluation being developing and maintaining an effective framework conducted every three years: of internal controls over risk in relation to all business activities including the Groups trading activities: and promoting effective and constructive relationships and communications between non-executive Directors and ensuring that the flow of information to the Board executive Directors and senior management, and holding is accurate, timely and clear.
meetings with the non-executive Directors without the Role of the Senior Independent Director executive Directors being present: The key roles and responsibilities of Philip Aiken, Senior ensuring effective communication with shareholders Independent Director, include: and that their views are understood by the Board: acting as a point of contact for shareholders and maintaining effective and constructive relations with the other stakeholders to discuss matters of concern which Government and business community in Kazakhstan: and would not be appropriate through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive establishing an effective working relationship with the and Chief Financial Officer.
No such matters of concern Chief Executive.
were raised by shareholders during the year ended 31 December 2010: Role of the Chief Executive The Chief Executive is responsible for leading the senior acting as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as management team in the day-to-day operation of the an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary: Groups business and the implementation of the strategy approved by the Board.
meeting with the non-executive Directors without the Chairman being present at least annually and leading The key roles and responsibilities of the Chief Executive include: the Board in the ongoing monitoring and annual performance evaluation of the Chairman: and developing Group objectives and strategy having regard to the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, attending sufficient meetings with a range of major customers, employees and other stakeholders: shareholders to develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders and report the establishing and maintaining an international outcome of such meetings at subsequent Board meetings.
organisation that will enable the Groups strategy to be implemented effectively: During the year, Philip Aiken attended a number of meetings with institutional shareholders to discuss their developing through investment and divestment views on the Group and received feedback on the an appropriate asset base for the Group to execute Chairmans performance following the annual Board its strategy: performance evaluation process.
planning human resourcing to ensure the Company has the capabilities and resources required to achieve its plans: www.
