Keller Group plc 31 Corporate governance The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of leadership of executive management to enable the Groups corporate governance.
The Board recognises that it is businesses to deliver the requirements of shareholders: accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate ensuring adequate, well-motivated and incentivised governance and this statement describes how the Company has management resources: applied the principles of the June 2008 Combined Code as set ensuring succession planning: and out at www.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2010, save as otherwise ensuring appropriate business processes.
explained in the paragraph headed Compliance with the Code on page 34, the Board believes that the Company was Directors and Directors independence in compliance with the provisions of the Code.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, five other Nonexecutive Directors and four Executive Directors.
The names The Board of the Directors at the date of this report, together with their The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The biographical details, are set out on pages 16 and 17.
All of Boards main roles are: to create value for shareholders: to these Directors served throughout the year with the exception of provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group: to approve the Ms Cairnie and Mr Girling who joined the Board on 1 June 2010 Groups strategic objectives: and to ensure that the necessary and 28 February 2011 respectively.
In addition, Dr Bond served financial and other resources are made available to enable on the Board until May 2010. those objectives to be met.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, which it last reviewed The Non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help to in February 2010. develop proposals on strategy and bring strong independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards Specific responsibilities of the Board include: setting Group deliberations.
During the year the Chairman met with the Nonstrategy and approving the annual budget: reviewing operational executive Directors without the Executive Directors present and and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, there was regular informal contact between the Directors.
divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: ensuring that Mr Franklin was independent at the time of his appointment as appropriate management development and succession plans are Chairman on 1 August 2009.
His other professional commitments in place: providing leadership for, and reviewing the Groups are as detailed on page 17. performance in, environmental, health and safety matters: approving appointments to the Board: and approving policies Mr Lpez Jimnez is associated with GTCEISU Construccin, relating to Directors remuneration and Directors contracts.
S. A. GTCEISU, which is a 49% shareholder in Keller-Terra S. L. and a 5.6% shareholder in Keller Group plc.
Whilst the Board Board papers and other relevant information are circulated to considers Mr Lpez Jimnez to be independent in character and the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and judgement, he is not deemed to be independent of management Board Committee meetings.
This information is supplemented under the Code, in view of GTCEISUs shareholding in Keller by information specifically requested by the Directors from Group plc.
Dr Bond, who stood down in May 2010, had served on the Board The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive for more than nine years and, accordingly, in his last few months There is a clear division of responsibilities between Mr Franklin on the Board was not deemed to be independent of management as Non-executive Chairman and Mr Atkinson who, as Chief under the Code.
Executive, is the Director ultimately responsible for the running of the Groups business.
The Board considers all the other Non-executive Directors to have been independent of management throughout the year.
The Chairman is responsible for the following matters pertaining to the leadership of the Board: Looking beyond 2010, Mr Brown and Mr Scholes, having both now served on the Board for more than nine years, are no longer ensuring appropriate Board composition: deemed independent under the Code, although the Board is of ensuring effective Board processes: the view that their objectivity and willingness to challenge setting the Boards agenda: management have not been compromised in any way by their tenure on the Board.
After his long association with the Company, ensuring that Directors are properly briefed in order to take during which time he has made an important contribution, a full and constructive part in Board and Board Committee Mr Scholes will stand down at the next Annual General Meeting discussions: and will be succeeded as Chairman of the Audit Committee by ensuring effective communication with shareholders: and Mr Girling.
ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Mr Brown will retire by rotation and will stand for re-election.
is re-elected, it is the Boards intention that, in the interest of continuity, he should remain, until May 2012 at the latest, as The Chief Executive is responsible for the following matters: Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration formulating strategy proposals for the Board: Committee, both senior roles which he has performed with commitment and diligence.
As the process of refreshing the formulating annual and medium-term plans charting how this Board continues and more recently appointed Non-executive strategy will be delivered: Directors gain a deeper knowledge of the Group, it is anticipated apprising the Board of all matters which materially affect the that these senior roles will be taken on by others.
Group and its performance, including any significantly underperforming business activities: and 32 Keller Group plc Corporate governance Continued There is an agreed procedure for any Director of the Company Throughout their period of office, Non-executive Directors are whether executive or non-executive, both individually and continually updated on the Groups business, its markets, social collectively, to obtain independent professional advice.
This responsibility matters and other changes affecting the Group and procedure was reviewed by the Board and updated during the the industry in which it operates, including changes to the legal year.
All Directors have unrestricted access to the Company and governance environment and the obligations on themselves Secretary and Chairman.
The Company Secretary is responsible as Directors.
for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
Performance evaluation and re-election During the year, Mr Brown, as Senior Independent Director, led an The Board had eight scheduled meetings during the year.
A table evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
He conducted showing attendance at these meetings, and at meetings of Board this process through a series of interviews with other Board Committees, is set out on page 33.
All Directors receive Board members and the Secretary, followed by a feedback session with papers well in advance of meetings and it is usual for Directors the Chairman.
who cannot attend a given meeting to discuss the business of the meeting in advance with the Chairman or the Senior Independent A formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and Director, in order to have input to the Boards deliberations.
individual Directors was led by the Chairman, who held one to one meetings with all Directors.
These meetings gave the As part of our policy of holding at least one Board meeting a year Chairman an opportunity to give specific feedback to Directors at an operational location, one of the Board meetings in 2010 was and were followed by a report back to, and discussion by, the full held in France and was combined with a visit to the Groups joint Board.
Following this process, the Chairman has confirmed that venture operation in Spain.
This gave the Board an opportunity to the Directors standing for election at this years Annual General receive presentations on the regions markets and prospects and Meeting continue to perform effectively and to demonstrate to meet some of the Groups senior managers.
Directors conflicts of interests All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that directors Annual General Meeting following their appointment and, subject have a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or to satisfactory performance evaluation where appropriate, to can have, an interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
the interests of the company.
During the year, the Board conducted its annual review of the interests of the Directors Relations with shareholders which, with the exception referred to below, did not present any Throughout the year, the Chief Executive and Finance Director conflicts or potential conflicts with the Company.
regularly meet with and make presentations to institutional investors in the UK, Continental Europe and the US.
These The Board again reviewed Mr Lpez Jimnezs interest as include meetings following the announcement of the annual and Chairman and a shareholder in GTCEISU Construccin, S. A interim results with the Companys largest institutional GTCEISU.
In 2002, GTCEISU and Keller created Keller-Terra S. L. shareholders on an individual basis.
All major shareholders have a joint venture for the development of the business in Spain, the opportunity on request to meet the Chairman, the Senior which is 51% owned by the Group.
Independent Director or, on appointment, any new Non-executive Directors.
On a regular basis, the Board is apprised of the views As at the previous review, the Board recognised that the coof the investment community through the circulation of brokers operation between Keller and GTCEISU and Mr Lpez Jimnezs research notes and feedback from analysts and investors, subsequent appointment brought clear benefits to the Company supplemented by occasional investor perception surveys.
in terms of business development, industry knowledge and expertise.
Mr Lpez Jimnezs other interests in the ground The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all the engineering sector were well known to the Board at the time of Directors and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the his appointment.
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it meeting and to meet with Directors after the formal proceedings continued to be in the best interests of the Company to retain the have ended.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, detailing services of Mr Lpez Jimnez as a Director of the Company and, all proposed resolutions, is posted to shareholders at least in accordance with the authority granted by shareholders at the 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting, the Board authorised the potential conflict presented by his interest in GTCEISU, The Group maintains a corporate website, www.
co. uk, subject to certain conditions and to continued annual reviews.
containing a wide range of information of interest to investors, including presentations to institutional investors and analysts.
Professional development The website is updated with all formal communications to the On appointment, Directors are provided with induction training investment community immediately following their release and information about the Group, the role of the Board and the through a recognised news service.
matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the Board Committees and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with certain senior executives to develop the Directors understanding of the business.
During the year, the induction process for new Directors was reviewed and updated.
Keller Group plc 33 Board committees Nomination Committee The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the each Director during the year was as follows: Board, except to the extent that it deals with succession to the chairmanship of the Board, in which case the Senior Independent Scheduled Remuneration Audit Nomination Director assumes this role.
The names of members of the Board Committee Committee Committee Committee during the year are given below.
All members served meetings meetings meetings meetings on the Committee throughout the year, except where indicated.
8 3 4 2 R A Franklin Committee members Chairman 8 n a n a 2 R A Franklin Chairman J R Atkinson J R Atkinson Chief Executive 8 n a n a 2 Dr K Bond until 17 May 2010 J W G Hind E G F Brown Finance Director 8 n a n a n a R Cairnie from 1 June 2010 R M Rubright R T Scholes Executive Director 8 n a n a n a The Nomination Committees role is to monitor the composition Dr W Sondermann and balance of the Board and recommend to the Board the Executive Director 8 n a n a n a appointment of new Directors.
Where appointments to the Board Dr K Bond are under consideration, the Committee will normally employ Non-executive Director external search consultants, except where exceptional internal until 17 5 10 3 2 1 1 candidates have already been identified.
E G F Brown Non-executive Director 8 3 4 2 The Committee met twice during the year to consider the overall P J Lpez Jimnez composition of the Board.
Non-executive Director 7 n a n a n a Audit Committee R T Scholes The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Scholes, who is a Non-executive Director 8 3 4 2 Chartered Accountant.
The names of members of the Committee R Cairnie during the year are given below.
All served on the Committee Non-executive Director throughout the year except where indicated and all, apart from since 1 6 10 5121 Dr Bond in his last few months on the Board, were independent Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled meetings in the period.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant Committee terms of reference financial experience.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees were reviewed and, where appropriate, Committee members updated during the year.
They are available on the Companys R T Scholes Chairman website www.
co. uk and on request from the Company Dr K Bond until 17 May 2010 Secretary.
E G F Brown R Cairnie from 1 June 2010 Cross membership ensures that decisions of the three committees are consistent and, where appropriate, integrated.
This Committee assists the Board in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate Remuneration Committee and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the The names of members of the Committee during the year are Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair given below.
The Committee was chaired by Mr Brown and all reflection of this position.
It also reviews annually the Groups members served on the Committee throughout the year, except systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and where indicated.
evaluating the risks facing the Group.
Committee members This Committee met four times during the year, with the E G F Brown Chairman Companys external Auditors the Auditors in attendance and on Dr K Bond until 17 May 2010 three of these occasions, the Committee met privately with the R Cairnie from 1 June 2010 Auditors without management being present.
During the year, the R T Scholes Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: reviewing the scope and results of the audit, its costApart from Dr Bond, who had served for more than nine years effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the and was not, therefore, deemed to be independent under the Auditors: Code in his last few months on the Board, all other members of the Committee were independent throughout the period of their reviewing and approving the Auditors engagement letter and membership.
audit fee: reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal This Committee is responsible for agreeing with the Board the control and its effectiveness and receiving updates on key risk framework and policy for the remuneration of the Groups areas of financial control: executive management and for determining the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors.
The Directors Remuneration reviewing the Groups draft financial statements prior to Board Report is set out on pages 25 to 30. approval and reviewing the Auditors reports thereon: 34 Keller Group plc Corporate governance Continued reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing policy and monitoring Internal control the procedures in place for employees to be able to raise The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of matters of possible impropriety: internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of reviewing the Groups policy on the employment of former failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only employees of the Auditors: reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material reviewing the Groups policy on employment of the Auditors misstatement or loss.
for non-audit services: The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for reviewing the Committees terms of reference and evaluating identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by its effectiveness: the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and reviewing the need for an internal audit function: and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with approving a rolling three-year programme of independent the guidance.
reviews of aspects of the Groups operations and financial controls and receiving reports on all reviews carried out The principal elements of the internal control framework are during the year.
as follows: A number of policy changes were made following reviews by the a Risk identification and evaluation Audit Committee.
For example, the threshold above which any Managers are responsible for the identification and evaluation of work awarded to the Auditors, other than audit or tax compliance, significant risks applicable to their areas of business, together with requires the specific approval of the Committee, which had not the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks changed since the policy was first introduced in 2003, was raised may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources from 50,000 to 100,000.
The proviso that, where the including market cycles, acquisitions, people, technical risks such Committee perceives that the independence of the Auditors could as engineering and project management, health and safety risks, be compromised the work will not be awarded to them, was control breakdowns, disruptions in information systems, natural reaffirmed.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditors during the catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
The identified risks, and year for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the the controls in place to manage them, are subject to continual consolidated financial statements.
The process was formally reviewed by the Board during the year and in future this review will be conducted In reviewing the need for an internal audit function, the Committee annually.
considered the principle of having a structured programme of independent reviews carried out by an outsourced provider rather The Chief Executive reports to the Board on significant changes than an internal audit department and concluded that this was still in the business and the external environment that affect significant the best approach.
This conclusion was reached having regard to risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with monthly the Groups broad geographic spread, its cultural diversity and financial information which includes key performance and risk the nature of its key risks.
process involving the Chairman of the Audit Committee,  were appointed in July as the sole b Authorisation procedures provider of outsourced reviews.
They attended one meeting of Documented authorisation procedures provide for an auditable the Audit Committee in 2010, at which their internal audit plan trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group for 2011 was approved and in future they will present their reports operations and provide for successive assurances to be given at to the Committee twice yearly.
increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
The Committees annual evaluation of the Auditors focused on: the calibre of the audit firm including reputation, presence in the c Management of project risk industry, size, resources and geographic spread : its quality Project risk is managed throughout the life of a contract from the control processes: the quality of the team assigned to the audit: bidding stage to completion.
the audit scope, fee and audit communications: and the governance and independence of the audit firm.
Detailed risk analyses covering technical, operational and financial issues are performed as part of the bidding process.
Authority Compliance with the Code limits applicable to the approval of bids relate both to the specific The Board believes that the Company was compliant with the risks associated with the contract and to total value being bid by Code throughout the year, save in respect of the requirement for Keller, or any joint venture to which Keller is a party.
Any bids at least half the board, excluding the chairman, to comprise involving an unusually high degree of technical or commercial risk, independent non-executive directors.
This is discussed in the for example those using a new technology or in a territory where paragraph headed Directors and Directors independence above we have not previously worked, must be approved at a senior and in the Chairmans Statement.
level within the operating company.
Keller Group plc 35 On average, our contracts will have a duration of around six weeks but larger contracts may extend over several months.
The performance of contracts is monitored and reported by most business units on a weekly basis.
In addition, thorough reviews are carried out by senior managers on any poorly performing jobs and full cost-to-complete assessments are routinely carried out on extended duration contracts.
Further detail on the management of project risk is provided in the section headed Principal risks and uncertainties on page 7. d Budgeting and forecasting There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
This budget includes monthly profit and loss accounts, balance sheets and cash flows.
In addition, detailed quarterly forecasts are prepared for the two subsequent years.
Forecasts for the full year are updated during the year.
e Financial reporting Detailed monthly management accounts are prepared which compare profit and loss accounts, balance sheets, cash flows and other information with budget and prior year, and significant variances are investigated.
f Cash control Each business reports its cash position weekly.
Regular cash forecasts are prepared to monitor the Groups shortand medium-term cash positions and to control immediate borrowing requirements.
g Investments and capital expenditure All significant investment decisions, including capital expenditure, are referred to the appropriate divisional or Group authority level.
h Independent reviews The Group has a structured programme of independent, outsourced reviews, covering tendering, operational processes and internal financial controls.
The intention is to conduct an independent review of all material business units at least once every three to four years.
As discussed in the section headed Audit Committee, since July 2010 this programme has been undertaken by .
The programme is approved and monitored by the Audit Committee, which reviews the findings of each such exercise.
i Self-certification Once a year, managers are asked to confirm the adequacy of the systems of internal financial and non-financial controls for which they are responsible: and their compliance with Group policies, local laws and regulations: and to report any control weaknesses identified in the past year.
The management of financial risks is described in the Financial Review and the management of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is described in the Operating Review.
