Corporate governance statement The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the principal matters considered by the Board during the year included: the Board recognises the importance of high standards of corporate conduct and is committed to managing the Groups operations in the Groups budgets, strategy, structure and financial requirements: accordance with the best principles of corporate governance set out the annual and interim financial statements taking into account the in section 1 of the combined code on corporate Governance issued in views of the Audit committee : June 2008 the combined code.
the company has complied with such principles throughout the year, except as explained below.
interim management statements: throughout the year, independent non-executive directors comprised the Groups final salary pension scheme: less than half of the Board.
the Board remains of the view that to increase the number of independent non-executive directors to a level t he implications of and proper approach to the issues relating to the where parity was attained would lead to an unduly large and unwieldy castlepoint shopping centre car park, Bournemouth: Board, without delivering any tangible benefit to shareholders.
For potential acquisitions: these reasons, the Board believes that, although the current Board structure does not comply with the combined code, it is satisfactorily the implications of prevailing economic conditions and the appropriate balanced in practice, with the independent non-executive directors response to them: having a substantial presence in Board debate.
material operational opportunities: the Board has noted the introduction of the uK corporate Governance code, which is expressed to apply to accounting periods the implications of the election of a coalition government, including beginning on or after 29 June 2010. the Board is currently considering the potential impact on public sector expenditure: the steps required to reflect the provisions of the new code in its health and safety issues and strategies: policies and procedures.
corporate responsibility matters: Board of directors the response to an employee engagement survey conducted by the the Board is responsible to shareholders for the success of the Group: company.
the Board sets the strategic and financial policies of the Group, monitors and reviews business performance and controls risk.
the process of appealing against the fine imposed by the office of the Board has put in place standing orders which are designed to Fair trading as a result of cover pricing by a Group company: and ensure that it is provided with relevant information on a timely basis, presentations as to strategic issues from the senior management of which set authorisation limits and which reserve certain matters for a number of the divisions.
the Board or its committees, including: the Groups chairman is Mr p M White, who leads the Board.
He is strategy and financial policy: responsible for the Boards effectiveness and sets its agenda, ensuring the approval of financial statements: that the directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He facilitates the effective contribution of the non-executive directors and risk management: ensures a positive and constructive relationship between the executive major capital expenditure: and non-executive directors.
the chairman is also responsible for effective communication with shareholders.
major project approval: Mr J dodds retired from the Board on 31 March 2010 and was acquisitions and disposals: and replaced as chief executive by Mr M p sheffield, who is responsible for the operational management of the Group and is accountable to certain aspects of human resources policy, including senior the Board for the implementation of the Groups strategy.
in order to appointments, general salary reviews, employee share plans and facilitate this, the chief executive meets monthly with a management pension provision.
committee comprising the other executive directors and he also chairs monthly management meetings with each of the divisions.
the chief executive also meets regularly with the human resources managers and the director of safety, health and environment.
the senior non-executive director is Mr c V Geoghegan.
the Board considers Mr c V Geoghegan and Mr n p Winser to be independent directors.
the chairman of the Board, Mr p M White, was also considered to be independent on his appointment.
52 Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 Board of directors continued Audit Committee Mr s W leathes will retire from the Board with effect from the conclusion the Audit committee comprises the non-executive directors.
during of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Mr s W leathes will not the year ended 30 June 2010, the chairman of the Audit committee stand for re-election.
in anticipation of Mr s W leathes retirement, the was Mr s W leathes, a chartered accountant with recent and relevant Board announced the appointment of Mr r c Bailey as a non-executive financial experience.
the committee met four times during the year in director with effect from 1 october 2010.
Mr r c Bailey is considered July, september, February and June.
these committee meetings were by the Board to be independent.
the Board was of the view that, as also attended by the finance director and the head of internal audit.
the a result of Mr r c Baileys recent and relevant experience, it did not KpMG audit engagement director attended the meetings in september need to use either an external search consultancy or open advertising and February and then met with the committee without management in making this appointment.
At the forthcoming annual general meeting, being present.
the chairman and executive directors have an open a resolution will be proposed for the election of Mr r c Bailey as a invitation to attend the meetings.
Biographical details of Mr r c Bailey will be the company announced that Mr r c Bailey will replace included in the notice of annual general meeting.
Mr s W leathes as the chairman of the Audit committee for the year on 12 July 2010, the company announced that Miss d e Mattar ending 30 June 2011.
Mr r c Bailey is a chartered accountant with intended to leave the Group with effect from the conclusion of the recent and relevant financial experience.
the company also announced the committee has clearly defined terms of reference which outline that Mr H J Mursell would join as Group finance director designate and its objectives and responsibilities relating to financial reporting, that Mr H J Mursell was expected to take over from Miss d e Mattar internal controls, risk management and the application of appropriate upon her departure.
specific responsibilities include A table of attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and reviewing and recommending for approval the annual and interim its various committees is set out on page 54. in addition to these financial statements, reviewing the Groups accounting policies, meetings, the full Board attends a number of away-days annually reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management which focus on strategy, material issues facing the Group and processes and reviewing the scope and results of the external audit.
outside of the formal schedule of meetings, the committee also has responsibility for overseeing the Group the non-executive directors met without the executive directors on a internal audit function, including approval of the annual risk-based audit number of occasions during the year.
plan and monitoring the work, recommendations and effectiveness of All directors have access to the advice and services of the company the function.
the head of internal audit reports directly to the chairman secretary and the directors are able to seek independent professional of the committee.
advice if necessary at the companys expense.
training is available At each of its meetings, the committee received and reviewed a for new directors and subsequently as necessary.
All directors are report from the head of internal audit which highlighted the internal subject to election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting audit activity against the approved plan, together with the key findings following their appointment and to re-election thereafter at intervals from internal audits.
the chairman of the committee also has separate of no more than three years.
executive directors are required to seek meetings with the head of internal audit and the committee has also approval from the Board before accepting any external non-executive met with the head of internal audit without management being present.
positions, although no such positions are currently held.
in June 2010, the committee carried out a review of the effectiveness the remuneration committee and Board encourage directors and of the internal audit function.
staff at all levels to acquire shares in the company and to hold them the committee is responsible for monitoring the independence for the longer term.
this sense of ownership is an important element of and objectivity of KpMG, the external auditors, and agreeing the level the Groups culture and of its focus on long-term performance.
so far of remuneration and extent of non-audit services.
the committee as is considered appropriate, the Group prefers to promote individuals received a presentation from KpMG on its audit strategy and the scope from within.
of work at the February meeting, which the committee agreed.
it also discussed the firms professional ethical standards.
Board evaluation the committee reviewed the performance of KpMG and the non-audit the chairman carried out an evaluation of the Board during the year.
this fees paid to them during the year, details of which are set out in note included all the committees of the Board.
the chairman held individual 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
the provision of non-audit meetings with each director to discuss their views and to solicit their services, other than tax compliance and routine taxation advice, must opinions.
the conclusions were discussed collectively by the Board be referred to and agreed by the committee over a predetermined and a number of actions agreed.
the performance of the chairman was cost threshold and any work costed below that threshold must be reviewed separately in a process led by the senior independent director.
pre-approved by the Group finance director.
these controls enable the the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive committee to be satisfied that KpMGs objectivity and independence directors are available for inspection at the registered office and will as auditors had not been impaired, notwithstanding the provision of be on display prior to and at the annual general meeting.
non-audit services in the year.
the committee agreed and approved KpMGs overall audit fee following discussions between relevant Group management and KpMG.
the committees terms of reference are available on request from the company secretary and on the companys website.
Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 53 Corporate governance statement continued Remuneration Committee Internal control the remuneration committee comprises the chairman and the the combined code requires that the directors review the effectiveness non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of Mr c V Geoghegan.
of the Groups system of internal control and that this review covers information about the workings of this committee is contained all material controls, including operational, compliance and financial in the directors remuneration report on page 56. the committee controls and risk management systems.
the directors are satisfied that makes recommendations to the Board on the companys framework procedures are in place to ensure that the Group complies with the of executive remuneration and determines, on its behalf, specific turnbull committee guidance published by the institute of chartered remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
in doing Accountants in england and Wales and that the procedures have been so, it takes the advice of independent external consultants.
the applied during the year.
committees terms of reference are available on the companys website the Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of and on request from the company secretary.
internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
the Board considers that the Groups systems and controls, which have been Nomination Committee developed and refined over many years, are appropriately designed the nomination committee presently comprises the Groups chairman, to ensure that the Groups exposure to significant risks is properly the chief executive and the non-executive directors.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than for monitoring the composition and balance of the Board, making eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can recommendations to the Board on new Board appointments and only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material succession planning.
the committee met twice during the year.
in reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls, the committees terms of reference are available on the companys directors have considered the key risks and exposures within the Group.
website and on request from the company secretary.
the key features of the Groups system of internal controls and principal controls are: Board and Committee meetings details of the number of meetings of the Board, Audit, remuneration an established management structure operating throughout the Group and nomination committees, and attendance at such meetings, during with clearly defined levels of responsibility and delegation of authority: the year are set out in the table below.
clearly defined operating guidelines and procedures with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels.
these are set out in the Group and name of director Board 11 Audit 4 remuneration 5 nomination 2 divisional standing orders: p M White 11 5 2 a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting system in place which M p sheffield 11 is regularly reviewed and updated: 1 J dodds 8 1 a formal quarterly review of each divisions year-end forecast, c V Geoghegan 11 4 5 2 business performance, risk and internal control matters which is i M lawson 11 carried out by the directors of each division with the chief executive s W leathes 11 4 5 2 and finance director in attendance: d e Mattar 11 monthly management reporting, including regular comparison of r W simkin 11 actual results against latest forecasts: n p Winser 9 4 3 2 established policies and procedures governing the Groups investment 1 Mr J dodds retired from the board on 31 March 2010. in land, property and other significant assets, including acquisitions and disposals.
these include detailed appraisals, appropriate Any non-attendance at meetings was due to other business commitments.
authorisation levels and Board approval depending on value or When a director was unable to attend, he reviewed the papers circulated perceived exposure: prior to the meeting and provided his comments to the chairman of the meeting.
investment decisions, including private Finance initiative pFi Mr s Bowcott attended three Board meetings during the year, prior projects, and tenders for contracts being subject to approval by the to being appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2010.
Board, the chief executive and finance director or divisional directors depending on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
individual tender and project review procedures are in place prior to bidding and before contract award: 54 Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 Internal control continued internal audits carried out to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls.
the scope of the internal audit work is planned to cover the key risks faced by the business and is supplemented by cyclical reviews of the core financial process.
internal audit findings are reported to the Audit committee and the executive directors on a regular basis: risk registers in place for each business unit highlighting key risks facing that business, together with an assessment of the effectiveness of controls to mitigate those risks.
the risk registers are updated regularly and at 31 March: an annual process of risk and control self assessment whereby all operating companies are required to review and confirm that appropriate internal controls are in place and operating effectively across the key risk areas identified in individual company risk registers.
this assessment was carried out as at 31 March 2010 and the findings reviewed by the Audit committee: reviewing and reporting of safety, health and environmental matters: and the provision of a confidential method of reporting any suspected fraud or other misfeasance to the head of internal audit.
the Board receives regular reports from all operating units to monitor their performance and all business unit management teams are briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
during the course of the year, members of the Board visit all significant Group companies and monitor the control framework of each business.
the Audit committee reviews the appropriateness and effectiveness of internal controls.
Relations with shareholders the Board uses the annual general meeting to communicate with shareholders and encourages their attendance and participation.
the chairmen of the Audit and remuneration committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
the Group also maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors to assist in the understanding of the Groups objectives and the company has a programme of regular communication with investors, analysts and brokers.
presentations are made to investors, analysts and press at the time of the announcement of the final and half-year results and there are regular meetings with analysts and investors which are arranged through the companys brokers so that the investment community can be kept informed as to the Groups performance.
the Board is provided with independent feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders.
the companys website is also maintained to aid communication with investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the general public.
Kier Group plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 55
