King sher plc Annual Report 54 Audit Committee report and Accounts 2009 10 The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the non-executive reviewed and approved the scope of non-audit services provided by directors of the Company.
The terms of reference are regularly reviewed the auditors to ensure that there was no impairment of independence by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
and objectivity, and subsequently monitored the non-audit work These are available at www.
performed to ensure it was within policy guidelines: During the year, the Chairman of the Committee was Phil Bentley.
received presentations from the senior management of all operating Full details of Committee membership is set out on page 38.
Details of companies and certain key Group functions: the quali cations of Committee members, the number and attendance of Committee meetings are set on pages 29 and 36 respectively.
undertook the annual review of the Committees effectiveness: All members of the Committee receive appropriate induction, which is reviewed and updated the policy and process enabling employees in addition to the induction which all new directors receive.
The induction within the Group to make con dential disclosures about suspected programme covers an overview of the business, its financial dynamics financial and operational improprieties: and risks.
New Committee members also obtain access to its operations and staff, and all members of the Committee may undertake ongoing and in particular the Committee: training as required.
reviewed the services of the external auditor,  LLP, and following a tender process, The Audit Committee has an agenda linked to events in the Groups recommended the appointment of Deloitte LLP to serve as the financial calendar.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman of Companys auditor.
The review included an assessment of the the Board and the Group Chief Executive regularly attended meetings, quali cations, expertise and resources of the external auditors.
as did the Group Finance Director, Audit and Risk Management Director, Group Financial Controller and the external auditors.
Private meetings As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has were also held with the external and internal auditors at which concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference management were not present.
and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
A summary of the role of the Audit Committee is set out on page 38.
During the year ended 30 January 2010, the Committee: After seven years on the Board, Phil Bentley retired as a non-executive agreed the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit work director on 17 March 2010 and the Committee thanks Phil for his to be undertaken by the external auditors and agreed a programme invaluable contribution over these years.
Andrew Bon eld, who joined of work for the Companys Internal Audit function: the Board as a non-executive director on 11 February 2010 has succeeded Phil Bentley as Chairman of the Committee.
Both Phil considered the Internal Audit functions reports on the effectiveness Bentley and Andrew Bon eld are chartered accountants and have of internal controls, signi cant frauds and any fraud that involved recent and relevant financial experience.
management or employees with a signi cant role in internal controls: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the monitored progress on the programme announced during 2008 09 Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work to standardise and improve control processes in a number of of the Committee.
key areas including the B&Q China business unit and IT systems: For and on behalf of the Audit Committee received reports from the external auditors on their findings including any control observations relevant to their audit work: Phil Bentley Chairman of the Audit Committee reviewed the annual and interim financial statements, together with 24 March 2010 the reports received from the external auditors on their audits: considered regular reports on the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: KF7225 AR 09 10 KF7225 AR 09 10 Middle.
