King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts Corporate governance 35 2009 10 The Board is committed to the The Board The role of the Board highest standards of corporate The Board leads and controls the Groups business and its powers are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, which are available governance and recognises that on the Companys website.
The Board has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Group and is good governance is fundamental accountable to the Companys shareholders for the proper conduct of the business.
to helping the business deliver The Board has a formal schedule of matters speci cally reserved for its strategy whilst generating its approval, which is available on the Companys website.
The schedule is reviewed periodically and includes the following matters: shareholder value and Group strategy, three-year plans and annual budgets: major acquisitions or divestments of companies and business: safeguarding shareholders major changes to the capital structure including tax and treasury management: long-term interests.
changes to accounting policies or practices: approval of all financial announcements, the annual report Compliance with the Combined Code and accounts and shareholder communications: As a UK listed company, King sher plc is required to state whether it the system of internal control and risk management policy: and has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial review of management development strategy.
Reporting Councils 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code throughout the year and, where the provisions The Board has delegated authority to its committees to carry out have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
The Company certain tasks as fide ned in their written terms of reference.
Additional is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in information on the responsibilities of each of the Board committees Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The Board considers that throughout is set out on pages 37 to 38. the year ended 30 January 2010, and as at the date of this Annual Report, the Company was compliant with the provisions of, and applied Board meetings the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The following section The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year.
together with the directors report on pages 31 to 33, and the directors Unscheduled supplementary meetings also take place as and when remuneration report on pages 41 to 53, provides details of how the necessary.
These meetings are structured to allow open discussion.
Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions All directors participate in discussing the strategy, trading and financial of the Combined Code.
performance and risk management of the Company.
Comprehensive brie ng papers are circulated to all directors approximately one week Other listings before each meeting.
Those directors who were unable to attend a The Company has entered into a sponsored level one American particular meeting during the year reviewed the relevant brie ng papers Depositary Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon, and were given the opportunity to discuss any issues with the Chairman under which the Companys shares are traded on the over-the-counter or the Group Chief Executive.
market in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
On 29 December 2009, the Company delisted its ordinary shares from the list of financial instruments admitted to trading on NYSE Euronext Paris.
The decision to delist the shares from NYSE Euronext Paris was motivated primarily by low trading volumes experienced over the past few years.
indd 35 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:21:06 02:21:06 King sher plc Annual Report 36 Corporate governance and Accounts 2009 10 Board and committee meeting attendance The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the Board as at 1 February 2010 and their attendance at the scheduled Board and committee meetings which they were eligible to attend during the 2009 10 financial year: Scheduled Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Years on Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Board Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend 1 Peter Jackson n a 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 Daniel Bernard 3 9 9 2 2 5 5 4 4 Ian Cheshire 9 9 9 Kevin OByrne 1 9 9 Phil Bentley n a 9 9 6 6 4 4 3 Anders Dahlvig 0 1 1 1 1 Michael Hepher 12 6 9 6 6 6 7 2 4 Janis Kong 3 8 9 6 7 3 4 4 Hartmut Krmer n a 3 6 2 3 John Nelson 8 9 9 6 6 7 7 4 4 1 Retired from the Board and Board committees with effect from 3 June 2009.
2 Resigned from Audit Committee and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee from 3 June 2009, being the date of appointment as Chairman of King sher plc.
3 Appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 16 December 2009.
4 Retired from the Board and Board committees with effect from 23 October 2009.
5 Andrew Bon eld was appointed to the Board and as a member of the Audit Committee with effect from 11 February 2010 and therefore does not appear in the above table of attendance.
Board constitution, appointments and independence as non-executive directors on 3 June 2009, 23 October 2009 and The Board is made up of two executive directors, five non-executive 17 March 2010 respectively, and Michael Hepher, who has served directors and a non-executive Chairman.
The executive and nonon the Board as a non-executive director for 12 years will retire at the executive directors are equal members of the Board and have overall conclusion of the AGM to be held on 17 June 2010. collective responsibility for the direction of the Company.
The current directors biographical details are set out on page 29.
The non-executive directors of the Company play a key governance role and bring an external dimension to the Boards deliberations.
During the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and year, the Board considered the independence of each non-executive the Group Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board director other than the Chairman, who was deemed independent by the and is available on the Companys website.
The Chairman is responsible Board at the date of his appointment against the criteria speci ed in the for the overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
Combined Code and determined that each remained fully independent.
He is also responsible for ensuring that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders and that Appointments to the Board there is an open dialogue with shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the is responsible for all executive management of the Groups business, appointment of new directors to the Board and this is described in the consistent with the strategy and commercial objectives agreed by section on the Nomination Committee on page 38.
The procedure was the Board.
followed during the selection and appointment of Anders Dahlvig and Andrew Bon eld, who joined the Board as non-executive directors on At the conclusion of the AGM held on 3 June 2009, Peter Jackson 16 December 2009 and 11 February 2010, respectively.
The terms and retired as Chairman of the Board and Daniel Bernard succeeded him conditions of appointment of each of the non-executive directors are in this role.
At that time, John Nelson assumed the role of Deputy available for inspection at the Companys registered of ce and will Chairman in addition to his existing responsibilities as Senior Independent also be available for inspection at the AGM from 15 minutes before the Director.
The Senior Independent Director is available for approach or meeting until its conclusion.
Individual non-executive directors are able representation from signi cant shareholders who may feel inhibited from to serve up to three three-year terms.
At the end of each three-year raising issues with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting term, an analysis is undertaken to ensure that the relevant directors an annual review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event continue to make an effective and valuable contribution to the Board it should be necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive and demonstrate an appropriate commitment to their role.
Peter Jackson, Hartmut Krmer and Phil Bentley retired KF7225 AR 09 10 KF7225 AR 09 10 Middle.
indd 36 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:21:06 02:21:06 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 37 2009 10 Board effectiveness Performance evaluation and director re-election Directors con icts of interest During the year, the Board considered the output from its own The Company has robust procedures in place to identify, authorise and performance evaluation and that of its committees, which was carried manage any con icts of interest, and these procedures have operated out during January 2009.
The annual performance evaluation is effectively during the year.
A register of directors con icts is maintained conducted within the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Board on a regular with the aim of improving directors individual contributions, Board and basis.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors committee effectiveness, and the Groups performance.
The internal and any changes to these commitments are reported to the Board.
process was led by the Chairman and facilitated by the Company Secretary and involved the use of an online questionnaire with speci c Board development questions relevant to the Company.
The performance assessment of the All new directors appointed to the Board receive a comprehensive non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive was carried out induction programme tailored to their experience, background and by the Chairman during the year.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive particular areas of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge conducted the performance review of the Group Finance Director and and understanding of the Groups culture and operations.
In particular, the Senior Independent Director conducted the performance review the programme includes: of the Chairman.
individual one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other directors: The individual evaluations found the performance of each director to site visits to the Groups stores and those of its competitors: be effective and concluded that the Board and its committees continue meetings with operating company management and other senior to operate effectively.
The Board con rmed that the contributions made management: and by each director offering themselves for re-election at the AGM on external training courses at the Companys expense, if required.
17 June 2010 continued to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
The details of directors seeking re-election Subsequent training is also available to directors on an ongoing basis.
and election at the 2010 AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Directors are briefed on issues arising at Board and committee meetings Annual General Meeting.
and have full and timely access to relevant information ahead of each meeting.
The Board meeting brie ng papers include updates from the The Board will continue to review its procedures, effectiveness and Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Company development in the year ahead and the Chairman will use the output Secretary.
In particular, the Board received updates on the following of the most recent evaluation as the basis of his individual meetings activities during the year: trading results: key management changes: with directors.
capital structure: returns: financial plans: and legal and regulatory updates.
The Board programme includes presentations from The Board will consider the use of an external facilitator to carry out management on particular issues and site visits including overseas an independent Board evaluation during the year ahead.
The non-executive directors periodically visit different Group companies and are provided with brie ngs and information to Board committees assist them in performing their duties.
The Board also receives regular The Board has delegated authority to its committees to carry out certain reports addressing issues and concerns raised by the Companys tasks as fide ned in each committees respective terms of reference.
This process allows the directors to develop The written terms of reference in respect of the Audit, Remuneration the necessary understanding of the views of these shareholders and and Nomination committees are available on the Companys website also enables the Board to judge whether investors have a suf cient and hard copies are available upon application to the Company understanding of the Companys objectives.
Secretary at the Companys registered of ce.
As well as planned development and brie ngs, directors are also Minutes of committee meetings are made available to all directors on expected to take responsibility for identifying their own individual needs a timely basis and the chairmen of the principal committees provide and to take necessary steps to ensure that they are adequately informed updates to the Board at subsequent Board meetings.
The Board is about the Group and their responsibilities as a director.
The Board is satis ed that the terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy con dent that all its members have the knowledge, ability and experience the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed on an to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
Details of each committee, including membership, are set out in the following committee reports: There is also an agreed procedure whereby directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
indd 37 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:21:07 02:21:07 King sher plc Annual Report 38 Corporate governance and Accounts 2009 10 Audit Committee The Nomination Committee meets periodically when required and The current members of the Audit Committee are Andrew Bon eld external advisers may be invited to attend.
Following a rigorous search Chairman, Anders Dahlvig, Michael Hepher and John Nelson.
Phil and selection process carried out with the assistance of specialist Bentley retired from the Board and therefore the Audit Committee on recruitment consultants, the Nomination Committee considered the 17 March 2010 and was replaced as chairman of the Audit Committee proposed appointments of Anders Dahlvig and Andrew Bon eld by Andrew Bon eld on this date.
Daniel Bernard resigned as a member as additional non-executive directors.
In making its appointment of the Committee following his appointment as Chairman of the Board recommendations to the Board, the committee reviewed the overall on 3 June 2009.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board against Code, Andrew Bon eld is designated as the committee member with current and future requirements of the Company.
recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee is comprised of members having the necessary ability and experience Remuneration Committee to understand financial statements.
A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, including an Under its terms of reference, which are available on the Companys explanation of how it applied the principles of the Combined Code website, the Audit Committee is required, amongst other things to: in setting executive directors remuneration, is included within the monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 53. review, understand and evaluate the Companys financial, risk, and other internal controls and their associated systems: Retail Board monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal The members of the Retail Board are the executive directors, divisional audit function on an annual basis: chief executives and certain other Group functional heads.
The executive oversee the relationship with the external auditors, making element of the Retail Board, whose biographical details are set out on recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, page 30 meet 12 times a year under the chairmanship of the Group remuneration and terms of engagement: and Chief Executive.
The remaining members of the Retail Board, whose monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity biographical details are also set out on page 30, participate in at least and effectiveness and to approve the policy on the engagement four meetings per year and other meetings upon invitation.
of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The Retail Board is responsible for the day-to-day management of the At each of its meetings, the Audit Committee meets separately with Groups businesses and the overall financial performance of the Group the external auditors and the Group Audit & Risk Management Director in ful lment of strategy, plans and budgets.
It is also responsible for without management being present.
Further details on the work of the making recommendations on: Audit Committee can be found under Auditors and the Audit Committee monthly Group trading performance: report on pages 40 and 54 respectively.
the Groups capital structure and funding: capital expenditure proposals, major acquisitions or disposals Nomination Committee of businesses: The current members of the Nomination Committee are Daniel Bernard the Groups key risks: Chairman, Andrew Bon eld, Anders Dahlvig, Michael Hepher, Janis management development and senior executive succession plans: Kong and John Nelson.
the Groups corporate responsibility programme: and the individual progress of operating companies.
The primary purpose of the Nomination Committee is to lead the process for Board appointments and to make recommendations for Company Secretary maintaining an appropriate balance of skills on the Board.
In particular, The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Board and its the Nomination Committee: committees and, with the consent of the Board, may delegate reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes responsibility for the administration of the committees to other suitably recommendations to the Board, as appropriate: quali ed staff.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring identi es the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board the Board and nominates candidates to ll Board vacancies: on corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to the reviews the time required from a non-executive director: advice and services of the Company Secretary and his appointment considers succession planning, taking into account the challenges and removal is one of the matters reserved to the Board.
and opportunities facing the Group and the future skills and expertise needed on the Board: and reviews the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace.
indd 38 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:21:07 02:21:07 King sher plc Annual Report and Accounts 39 2009 10 Accountability, risk management and internal control Monitoring and review activities The Board considers risk assessment, identi cation of mitigating actions There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal control and internal control to be fundamental to achieving the Companys and reporting any signi cant control failings or weaknesses together strategic corporate objectives.
This system of internal control is: with details of corrective action.
These include: the Boards overall responsibility: a formal quarterly con rmation provided by the finance director annually reviewed for its effectiveness by both the Board and of each operating company certifying the operation of their control the Audit Committee: and systems and highlighting any weaknesses, the results of which in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005. are reviewed by regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board: and However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate periodic examination of business processes on a risk basis including the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reports on controls throughout the Group undertaken by the internal reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement audit function which reports directly to the Audit Committee.
Any controls and procedures, no matter how well-designed and The Board has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks operated, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance for effective internal control that implement the Turnbull Guidance, of achieving the desired control objectives.
Management is required Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined to apply judgement in evaluating the risks facing the Group in achieving Code, for the year under review and to the date of approval of this its objectives, in determining the risks that are considered acceptable Annual Report.
These procedures are subject to regular review and to bear, in assessing the likelihood of the risks concerned materialising, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing in identifying the Companys ability to reduce the incidence and impact the signi cant risks faced by the Group.
on the business of risks that do materialise and in ensuring the costs of operating particular controls are proportionate to the bene t. The internal audit function: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed The Board con rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal risk management tools and processes into their business operations: control system, including financial, operational and compliance controls oversees the operation of the individual operating businesses audit and risk management in accordance with the Combined Code for the committees: period from 1 February 2009 to the date of approval of this Annual ensures that business risks are identi ed, managed and regularly Report.
Following this review, the Board is satis ed that the system reviewed by management at all levels of the Group and that directors of internal control is effective.
are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005: provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective assurance on the control environment across the Group: and monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
Management at each operating company has responsibility for the identi cation and evaluation of the signi cant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken through the Retail Board, which reviews, identi es and evaluates the risks that are signi cant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The type of risks identi ed include strategic risk, external factors such as competition, environment and regulation, change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key management and macro market risks.
indd 39 13 4 10 13 4 10 02:21:07 02:21:07 King sher plc Annual Report 40 Corporate governance and Accounts 2009 10 Auditors Relations with shareholders During the year, the Company reviewed the services of its existing auditors, The Company is committed to communicating its strategy and activities  LLP, and following a tender, appointed clearly to its shareholders and, to that end, maintains an active dialogue Deloitte LLP to serve as its statutory auditors until the conclusion of the with investors through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
A resolution proposing the appointment of Deloitte LLP as The investor relations programme includes: auditors to the Company will be put to the 2010 AGM.
formal presentations of full-year and interim results: conference calls to discuss quarterly trading statements: The Company has a policy on the use of its auditors for non-audit work regular meetings between institutional investors and senior management and this is regularly reviewed.
The auditors are precluded from engaging to ensure that the investor community receives a balanced and in non-audit services that would compromise their independence or complete view of the Groups performance and the issues faced violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
by the Group: The approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required prior hosting investors and analysts sessions at which senior management to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditors from relevant operating companies deliver presentations which in excess of speci ed amounts.
The external auditors report to the provide an overview of individual businesses: Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company.
responding to enquiries from shareholders through the Companys Periodic rotation of key audit partners is also required.
investor relations team: regular meetings with institutional investors and analysts by the Each of the Groups businesses is consulted on the effectiveness and Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discuss independence of the auditors annually.
In addition, the auditors provide business performance: and the Audit Committee with a schedule of each matter on which there a section dedicated to shareholders on the Companys website.
was an initial difference between them and management in relation to the accounting treatment, and with the final decisions on these The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of issues.
The Audit Committee is satis ed with the effectiveness and the Board committees are available to meet major investors on request.
independence of the external auditors.
The Senior Independent Director has a speci c responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, and for whom contact In addition to their statutory duties, Deloitte LLP is also employed where, with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director as a result of its position as auditor, it either must, or is best placed to, has either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to matters is inappropriate.
such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, tax advice, regulatory lings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
Other work is The principal means of communication with private investors is by awarded on the basis of competitive tendering.
electronic communications and through the AGM, an occasion attended by all the Companys directors and at which all shareholders present are During the year,  LLP charged the Group given the opportunity to question the Chairman and the Board as well nil 2008 09: 2.3 million for audit and audit-related services and as the chairmen of the Board committees.
After the AGM, shareholders a further 0.4 million 2008 09: 0.9 million for non-audit services.
have the opportunity to meet informally with directors.
In addition, Deloitte LLP charged the Group 1.3 million for audit and audit-related services and a further 0.3 million for non-audit services A summary business presentation is given at the AGM before the during the year.
Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
At the AGM on 17 June 2010, the Chairman will use his discretion to call for a poll on all substantive resolutions.
The results of the votes in relation to all resolutions will be disclosed to those in attendance at the meeting, published on the Companys website and announced via the regulatory news service shortly after the conclusion of the AGM.
