Governance Corporate governance The Board continues to be committed to high standards of corporate The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved governance.
The Board strives to provide the right leadership, for its decision and approval.
These include the approval of the strategic oversight and control environment to produce and sustain strategic and annual profit plans, key public information releases delivery of value to all of the Companys shareholders.
The Board e. g. financial statements, dividends, major acquisitions and applies integrity, principles of good corporate governance and disposals, material contracts, treasury and other Group policies.
accountability throughout its activities and each director brings The section Internal control and risk management systems independence of character and judgement to the role.
All of the on pages 34 and 35 contains further information on how the members of the Board are individually and collectively aware of Board operates.
The Company seeks to ensure that the Board is supplied with The following describes the Boards approach to corporate appropriate and timely information to enable it to discharge its governance and how the Combined Code on Corporate duties.
The Board requests additional information or variations Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code have toregular reporting as it requires.
A procedure exists for directors beenapplied.
to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary.
All directors have access to the advice and Compliance statement services of the Company Secretary.
In 2010 the Company was subject to and complied with all of the All directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate A combination of tailored Board and committee agenda items Governance published in June 2008, apart from section 1 A.
3.3. andother Board activities, including briefing sessions, assist the and C. 3.1. during the period from 15 May 2010 to 1September directors in continually updating their skills and the knowledge 2010 when, respectively, there was no Senior Independent Director andfamiliarity with the Company required to fulfil their role both and the Audit Committee consisted of only two non-executive onthe Board and on Board committees.
This was following the resignations of N M H Jones seminars, workshops and presentations are made available to andH E Staunton and prior to the appointment of a replacement directors.
TheCompany provides the necessary resources for independent non-executive director, the recruitment process for developing and updating directors knowledge and capabilities.
whom commenced in February 2010 and concluded with the appointment of J M Kelly in September 2010.
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation process of itsown performance and that of its committees and individual As at 31 December 2010 the Company complied with the directors which in 2010 was externally facilitated by Lintstock.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code published inJune 2010.
Questionnaires tailored to the specific circumstances of the Company were completed by each director on the Chairman, Both Codes are published by the Financial Reporting Council inrelation to their own performance and on the effectiveness andare available on its website www.
ofthe Board and its committees.
Board The Chairman conducts an appraisal of each director.
The Senior The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, three Independent Director, having consulted with each of the other executive directors and six independent non-executive directors.
directors, conducts an appraisal interview with the Chairman.
The Chairman has a primary responsibility for the running of the In2010 a detailed report on the effectiveness of the Board and Board and for relations with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is itscommittees was produced by Lintstock and the results of which responsible for the operations and for the development of strategic were considered by the Board and the individual committees and plans and initiatives for consideration by the Board.
The division actions arising were agreed.
The following themes were addressed: ofresponsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive board composition, expertise and dynamics: board support, time has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the management and board committees: strategic, operational and risk Board.
During 2010 the division of responsibilities was reviewed oversight: succession planning and human resources management: and restated.
J M Kelly acts as Senior Independent Director, and priorities for change.
whose role is to provide a sounding board to the Chairman and to Whilst all directors are expected to bring an independent serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources Other roles and responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director including key appointments and standards of conduct, the are described elsewhere.
independent non-executive directors were selected and appointed The other significant commitments of the Chairman during 2010 for this purpose.
are detailed in his biography on page 31.
There were no changes The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board to those commitments during 2010. through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Board schedules eight meetings each year, but arranges to meet at other times as appropriate.
Of the ten meetings held in Appointment and replacement of directors 2010, CJRodrigues and C P Wicks were both unable to attend A person who is willing to act as a director, and is permitted by one scheduled meeting due to other business commitments, lawto do so, may be appointed as a director of the Company by DMShapland was unable to attend one scheduled meeting due shareholders in general meeting by ordinary resolution requiring toillness and both C Bell and JPOReilly did not attend two asimple majority of the persons voting on the relevant resolution scheduled meetings following the Companys announcements or by a decision of the directors.
No person, other than a director thatthey were to step down as directors of the Company.
retiring at that general meeting, shall be appointed or re-appointed a director at any general meeting unless he or she is recommended In addition, the Chairman met during the year with the by the directors or, not less than seven clear days before the date non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
appointed for the meeting, notice executed by that person of his or her willingness to be appointed or re-appointed is lodged at the Companys registered office.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 32 The articles of association of the Company provide that: Board committees The Board has four standing committees, all of which have written at every Annual General Meeting any director who has been terms of reference clearly setting out their authority and duties.
appointed as a director by the directors since the last Annual The terms of reference of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration General Meeting, or who was not appointed or re-appointed as Committees, which are reviewed annually, can be viewed on the a director at one of the preceding two Annual General Meetings, Companys website www.
The Operations must retire from office notwithstanding any agreement the Board, the Risk Committee and the Compliance Committee director may have with the Company and that any director referred to elsewhere are not formal Board committees.
soretiring may offer himself or herself for appointment or re-appointment as a director by the members at the meeting: Audit Committee The members of the Committee are: any director may retire from office at any general meeting and that any director so retiring may offer himself or herself for Appointment Committee appointment or re-appointment as a director by the members date role atthe meeting: and Darren M Shapland 16 February 2010 Chairman if a director retires from office at any general meeting, the director John M Kelly 1 September 2010 Member shall retain office until the end of the meeting irrespective of C Pippa Wicks 1 June 2004 Member theoutcome of any resolution that the director be appointed or re-appointed as a director put to the members at the meeting.
H E Staunton and N M H Jones resigned from the Committee on 14 May 2010.
D M Shapland was appointed as Chairman on The UK Corporate Governance Code specifies that all directors 14May 2010. ofFTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election byshareholders.
The Company is a FTSE 350 company and All members of the Committee are independent non-executive alldirectors will be subject to election or re-election at the 2011 directors.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board Annual General Meeting.
at the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, which The independent non-executive directors understand that the consults with the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board will not automatically recommend their re-election by The Board has satisfied itself that the members of the Committee shareholders.
The Chairman and the independent non-executive have recent and relevant financial experience.
directors are appointed for a specified term of approximately three years, subject to re-election.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary The Companies Act 2006 allows shareholders in general meeting who acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
by ordinary resolution requiring a simple majority of the persons The Committee is able to take independent legal or professional voting on the relevant resolution to remove any director before advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
theexpiration of his or her period of office, but without prejudice The Committee meets as required, but not less than three times a toany claim for damages which the director may have for breach year.
Four meetings were held in 2010.
Between 15 May 2010 and of any contract of service between him or her and the Company.
1 September 2010 there were only two members in the Committee A person also ceases to be a director if he or she notifies the and the Committees terms of reference were amended Company of his or her resignation, ceases to be a director by accordingly.
One meeting was held during this period with full virtue of any provision of the Companies Act 2006, becomes attendance.
D M Shapland was unable to attend a second meeting prohibited by law from being a director, has a bankruptcy order during this period due to illness and on this occasion J F Jarvis against him or her or is the subject of a relevant insolvency and C J Rodrigues were appointed temporary additional members procedure, or if a medical practitioner gives a written opinion of the Committee.
There was full attendance at the other two stating the director has become physically or mentally incapable meetings held in 2010. of acting as a director and may remain so for more than three months, or is removed from office by notice signed by all the other Although other directors, including the Group Finance Director, directors sent to the director, or if the Board so decides following attend Audit Committee meetings, the Committee also meets for at least six months consecutive absence without permission or he private discussions with the external auditor, who attends all of its or she becomes subject to relevant procedures under the mental meetings, and can do so with the internal auditor.
The Committee is the body which carries out the functions required by DTR 7.1.
The main role and responsibilities of the Powers of the Companys directors Committee in 2010 were to: Subject to the articles, the directors are responsible for the management of the Companys business, for which purpose they monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The shareholders review the Companys internal financial control and risk may, by special resolution, direct the directors to take, or refrain management systems: from taking, specified action.
The directors exercise of the powers monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal of the Company to borrow money is restricted.
The directors have audit function: and power to issue new shares and to purchase the Companys own oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditor shares, in each case to the extent permitted by law or as allowed including the recommendation to the Board of its appointment by shareholder resolution resolutions to issue and purchase and remuneration.
shares are regularly proposed at the Companys Annual GeneralMeetings.
Should the Committees monitoring and review activities reveal any material cause for concern or scope for improvement, it will make recommendations to the Board on action needed to address the issue or make improvements.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued The main activities of the Committee in 2010 were as follows: The Committee meets as required but not less than twice a year.
Four meetings of the Committee were held in 2010.
There was full with the assistance of reports received from management attendance at these meetings.
andthe external auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in connection with the preparation The main role and responsibilities of the Committee are to: ofthe Companys financial and related formal statements: review the structure, size and composition of the Board assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems which includes an objective and comprehensive evaluation of established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and non-financial risks: and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial changes: controls.
The Committee does so by reference to: consider succession planning for the directors and other senior a summaries of business risks and mitigating controls: executives and make recommendations to the Board: b regular reports and presentations from the heads of identify and nominate for the approval of the Board candidates keyriskfunctions, internal audit and external audit: and to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: c the results of the system of annual self-certification review the leadership of the Company to ensure the of compliance with key controls and procedures: continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace: monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the internal audit function, including any actions taken following recommend candidates for the role of Senior Independent any significant failures in internal controls: Director and for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, in consultation with the Chairmen of those reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, Committees: and the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: and make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment of non-executive directors at the end of their reviewing the independence and objectivity of the specified term of office and the re-election by shareholders external auditor.
ofany director under the retirement by rotation provisions The external auditor reports to the Committee on the actions orotherwise.
takento comply with professional and regulatory requirements The Committee performed the above activities as necessary and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
Committee has agreed a policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, the application of which it R I Glynn was appointed as an executive director and as Chief monitors.
The policy, which can be viewed on the Companys Executive with effect from 22 April 2010.
J M Kelly was appointed as website www.
com, specifies services that may a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director with effect notbe provided and contains a level of cost at which Committee from 1 September 2010.
Descriptions of the roles and capabilities approval is required enabling the Committee to satisfy itself that required were prepared and suitable candidates were identified by auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded.
In the case of J M Kellys appointment, this was following a review of the structure, size and composition including Finance Committee skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
This Committee meets as required to deal with all routine business that excludes matters that are specifically reserved to the Board Remuneration Committee orto another committee and specific matters delegated to it by Details of the Remuneration Committee, including membership, the Board requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
are set out in the Directors remuneration report, which should Anytwo directors can conduct the business of this Committee.
beread in conjunction with this section.
Nomination Committee Internal control and risk management systems The members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the internal control and and two or more independent non-executive directors.
risk management systems operating throughout the Group and forreviewing their effectiveness.
No such systems can provide The current members of the Committee are: absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Appointment Committee Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate date role therisk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide Peter Erskine 18 February 2009 Chairman theBoard with reasonable assurance that potential problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in a timely manner for John F Jarvis 14 May 2010 Member appropriate action.
John M Kelly 15 February 2011 Member Christopher J Rodrigues 18 May 2007 Member The Company had procedures in place throughout the year and upto 17 February 2011, the date of approval of this Annual Report, N M H Jones resigned from the Committee on 14 May 2010. which accord with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
the Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Committee is provided with sufficient resources to undertake The Board has delegated the detailed design of the systems of its duties.
It has access to the services of the Company Secretary internal control and risk management to the executive directors.
who acts as secretary to the Committee and all other employees.
The Committee is able to take independent legal and professional advice when it believes it necessary to do so.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 34 The framework and key procedures during 2010 in relation to the to underpin the effectiveness of controls, it was the Groups financial reporting process were as follows: policy to recruit and develop management and employees of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
High the Group operates through two principal divisions, Retail and standards of business ethics and compliance with laws, Digital.
Responsibilities for managing business risks arising regulations and internal policies were demanded from were defined by the Board: employees at all levels.
the executive directors met regularly together and with other The role of the Audit Committee in reviewing the effectiveness of senior executives the Operations Board to consider Group the systems of internal control and risk management is explained strategy, financial performance, business development and in the Audit Committee section.
In addition, there are monthly financial and operational review meetings together with an The Board also conducts an assessment of the effectiveness annual programme of plans reforecasting and strategy reviews ofthe internal control and risk management systems.
The attended by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director assessment takes account of all significant aspects including: together with other executives as appropriate.
Divisional riskassessment: the control environment and control activities: management comprised executives with appropriate functional information and communication: and monitoring.
Divisional management met regularly to manage their respective businesses: Relations with shareholders the Board established corporate strategy and Group business There is a regular programme of meetings with major institutional objectives.
Divisional management integrated such objectives shareholders to consider the Groups performance and prospects.
into business strategies for presentation to the Board with In addition, presentations are made twice yearly after the supporting financial objectives: announcement of results, the details of which, together with the Groups financial reports and announcements, can be accessed there was an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and via the Companys website www.
The managing the risks faced by the Group.
Key risks and their Chairman met in 2010 with several institutional investors and their financial implications were appraised by the Operations Board representative bodies in addition to results presentations and the which was assisted by a committee of Group and divisional Annual General Meeting.
Other directors are available to meet the executives the Risk Committee.
This was an integral part of the Companys major shareholders if requested.
The appropriateness of controls was considered, having regard to cost benefit, materiality and the The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if likelihood of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate they have concerns, where contact through the usual channels of those risks were considered at each regular Board meeting and Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director has failed were formally reviewed and approved by the Board twice yearly.
to solve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each key risk was assigned Operations Board member A report on investor relations, which includes updates on ownership: meetingswith major institutional shareholders, is given at each divisional budgets, containing financial and operating targets, Board meeting.
The Companys brokers also present to the capital expenditure proposals and performance indicators, were Boardannually.
Principles of ownership, corporate governance reviewed by the executive directors and supported divisional andvotingguidelines issued by the Companys major institutional business strategies.
The Group profit plan was approved by shareholders, their representative bodies and advisory organisations theBoard: are circulated to, and considered by, the Board.
reports on financial and non-financial performances were The Company corresponds regularly on a range of subjects with its regularly provided to directors and discussed at Board individual shareholders who have an opportunity to question the meetings.
Performance against both budgets and objectives Board at the Annual General Meeting.
Further information on our together with management of business risks, were reviewed relations with shareholders is contained in Shareholder information.
with divisional management, as were forecasts and material sensitivities.
The Board regularly received reports from key Rights attaching to the shares and restrictions executives and functional heads covering areas such as on voting and transfer operations, forecasts, business development, strategic 1 3 The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of 28 p planning, human resources, legal and corporate matters, each.
Subject to any suspension or abrogation of rights pursuant compliance, health and safety and corporate responsibility: to relevant law or the Companys articles of association, the there was a Group-wide policy governing appraisal and ordinary shares confer on their holders other than the Company approval of investment expenditure and asset disposals.
Major inrespect of its treasury shares : projects were reported on at each regular Board meeting.
Post investment audits were undertaken on a systematic basis and a the right to receive out of profits available for distribution were formally reviewed by the Board twice yearly: suchdividends as may be agreed to be paid in the case ofafinal dividend in an amount not exceeding the amount key policies and control procedures including treasury, recommended by the Board as approved by shareholders compliance and information system controls are documented in ingeneral meeting or in the case of an interim dividend in an manuals having Group-wide application.
Operating companies amount determined by the Board.
All dividends unclaimed also used procedure manuals that integrated with Group controls: foraperiod of 12 years after having become due for payment a system of annual self-certification of compliance with key are forfeited automatically and cease to remain owing by the controls and procedures was operated throughout the Group: Company: the Group had an internal audit function, outsourced to Deloitte b the right, on a return of assets on a liquidation, reduction LLP, which reported to management on the Groups operations: ofcapital or otherwise, to share in the surplus assets of the and Company remaining after payment of its liabilities pari passu with the other holders of ordinary shares: and Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued c the right to receive notice of and to attend and speak and vote inthe Companys articles of association, shareholders are subject in person or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company.
tothe compulsory acquisition provisions in sections 974 to 991 On a show of hands every member present or in the case of ofthe Companies Act 2006 and can be required by the Company acorporation, represented and voting has one vote and to transfer their shares following certain action by a gambling everyproxy present who has been appointed by one or more industry regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys members present has one vote and a second vote where articles of association.
theproxy has been appointed by more than one member and significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate hasbeen instructed by one or more members to vote for the upon a change of control following a takeover bid resolution and by one or more other members to vote against The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF, the resolution.
On a poll every member present or represented awholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and 14 separate in person or by proxy has one vote for every share of which that banksfor the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities member is the holder.
The appointment of a proxy must be ofup to 866 million on a committed basis provide that the banks received not less than 48 hours before the time of the holding may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
On ofthe relevant meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a cancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately repayable.
poll taken otherwise than at or on the same day as the relevant In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally meeting or adjourned meeting be received after the poll has arrange substitute facilities.
In addition, LGF issued a bond in been demanded and not less than 24 hours before the time March 2010.
The bond has a Put Event that allows bondholders appointed for the taking of the poll.
to exercise a put option when a change of control occurs.
The put These rights can be suspended.
If the member, or any other person option allows the bondholders to require LGF to purchase the appearing to be interested in shares held by that member, has failed bonds at a price of 101 pence.
to comply with a notice pursuant to section 793 of the Companies The agreement between Ladbrokes International Limited LI, Act 2006 notice by company requiring information about interests awholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Prima Poker inits shares the Company can suspend until one week after the Limited PP, pursuant to which PP granted to LI a non-exclusive default ceases the right to attend and speak and vote at a general licence to use an interactive gaming system and supplies various meeting and if the shares represent at least 0.25% of their class poker related services to LI, states that PP may give notice of theCompany can withhold any dividend or other money payable termination if LI or any affiliate of LI is acquired by a competitor inrespect of the shares and refuse to accept certain transfers of the ofPP.
On termination in these circumstances, LI must pay a relevant shares.
In addition, following certain action by a gambling termination fee calculated by reference to the monthly fees industry regulator as more specifically set out in the Companys otherwise payable to PP for the remainder of the term subject to articles of association, the Company may suspend all or some of amaximum of 24 months.
The payment is effectively reduced therights attaching to all or some of the shares held by any relevant bythe 150 days notice required to be served by PP.
shareholder to attend and to speak at meetings and to vote, to receive any dividend or other money payable in respect of the The agreement between LI and Microgaming Systems Anstalt shares, and to the issue of further shares or other securities in MGS, pursuant to which MGS granted to LI a non-exclusive respect of the shares.
licence to use an interactive casino system and supplies various casino related services to LI, states that MGS may give notice Shareholders, either alone or with other shareholders, have other oftermination if LI or any affiliate of LI is acquired by a competitor rights as set out in the Companys articles of association and in ofMGS.
On termination in these circumstances, LI must pay company law principally the Companies Act 2006. atermination fee calculated by reference to the monthly fees The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is otherwise payable to MGS for the remainder of the period up used in connection with certain of the Companys employee share to30November 2011.
The payment is effectively reduced by ownership plans, held 1,426,077 ordinary shares in the Company the90 days notice required to be served by MGS.
at 31 December 2010 which are not voted by plan members and Amendment of the Companys articles of association which it can vote in its absolute discretion.
The Companys articles of association may be amended A member may choose whether his or her shares are evidenced by the members of the Company by special resolution byshare certificates certificated shares or held in electronic requiringamajority of at least 75% of the persons voting uncertificated form in CREST the UK electronic settlement ontherelevant resolution.
Any member may transfer all or any of his or her shares subject in the case of certificated shares to the rules set out in the Companys articles of association or in the case of uncertificated shares the regulations governing the operation of CREST which allow the directors to refuse to register a transfer as therein set out : the transferor remains the holder of the shares until the nameof the transferee is entered in the register of members.
Thedirectors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares infavour of more than four persons jointly or where there isnoadequate evidence of ownership or the transfer is not duly stamped if so required.
The directors may also refuse to register a share transfer if it is in respect of a certificated share which is not fully paid up or on which the Company has a lien provided that, where the share transfer is in respect of any share admitted to the Official List maintained by the UK Listing Authority, any such discretion may not be exercised so as to prevent dealings taking place on an open and proper basis, or if in the opinion of the directors and with the concurrence of the UK Listing Authority exceptional circumstances so warrant provided that the exercise of such power will not disturb the market in those shares.
Whilst there are no squeeze-out and sell out rules relating to the shares Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 36
