Corporate governance reportfor the year to 31 December 2010 The Board considered that during the year ended 31December 2010 the Company was in compliance with all of the provisions of section 1 Companies of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Available from the Financial Reporting Councils website at http: www.
The Board The responsibilities and objectives of the Board The Board is appointed by the shareholders who are the owners of the Company.
The Boards principal responsibility is to act in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole within the legal framework of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board establishes the aims and objectives for the Company, approves the strategic direction and plans and the operating budgets proposed by the Chief Executive, and monitors performance against them.
The Board is also responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Company, for exercising proper and appropriate corporate governance, for establishing and ensuring the eff ectiveness of the Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing management performance.
Through the Chief Executive, the Board has regard to the necessary financial and human resources required to meet the Companys objectives.
The composition of the Board The composition of the Board is outlined on pages 36 and 37.
The Board comprises an appropriate mix of executive and non-executive directors and is of a size and includes the skills and experience appropriate for the requirements of the business.
There is a clear written division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Chief Executive which has been agreed by the Board.
MrReading is the senior independent non-executive director.
The principal role of the senior independent non-executive director is to be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman or Chief Executive.
As has been the practice for a number of years, the major shareholders were off ered the opportunity to meet with the senior independent non-executive director during the year.
All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
MrKeen, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board as an independent non-executive director in 1993.
Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that MrKeen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors are available from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
All of the directors stood for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in 2010 and will now do so each year, in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code which comes into force for accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
The operation of the Board The Board meets at least eight times a year.
A schedule of meetings and principal matters to be discussed is normally set out at least twelve months in advance.
The Board makes periodic visits to the Companys operations, and in addition the heads of the operating divisions and the Head of Global Human Resources periodically attend Board Meetings.
The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Administration Committees which are described below.
The Board determines the membership and Chairmanship of the Committees.
Minutes of those Committee meetings are circulated to Board Members prior to each Board Meeting.
Prior to the Meetings, all directors receive Board Papers, which include detailed financial information and a comprehensive operational overview from the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors meet at least twice a year without the executive directors present and the senior independent director meets at least annually with the non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
There is a schedule of key operational matters reserved for Board approval, including for example significant long term obligations such as capital investments, acquisitions and divestments above certain levels, the raising of new capital and entering into loan agreements.
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the business to the Chief Executive.
Performance of the Board During the last twelve months the Board has conducted a self-evaluation assessment of itself and its committees.
Following completion of questionnaires by all directors, the Chairman held one-to-one discussions with each director and led discussions to consider the Boards behaviours and processes.
Certain areas were identified for improvement or action.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees also considered their own performance and reported to the Board thereon.
The performance of individual directors has been considered by the Chairman and Chief Laird PLC 47 Corporate governance report continued for the year to 31 December 2010 Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have considered the performance of the executive directors which is also discussed with the non-executive directors.
The Boards evaluation processes will be reviewed by an independent third party during 2011.
New directors are provided with training prior to taking up the role and existing directors are provided with training as necessary, this can take the form of reports and briefings from external advisers and senior employees, attendance at seminars and conferences and bespoke training.
As part of the annual Performance Review each director is asked what training is required.
Board attendance The Board had ten meetings during 2010.
Mr Robb was unable to attend one Board Meeting, otherwise all of the directors attended all of the meetings.
Whenever a director is unable to attend a meeting, the director, if possible, consults with the Chairman prior to the meeting and is briefed by the Chairman after the meeting.
There were five Audit Committee meetings, six Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nominations Committee meetings during the year: at all of which there was full attendance.
Communications with shareholders Communication with shareholders takes place through the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report.
Additional information, including interim management statements, copies of other press releases, presentations and webcasts, is published on the Companys website.
Presentations covering strategic issues as well as financial and operating performance were made to major shareholders through investor roadshows in the UK during the year.
LairdPLC, within the limits imposed by the Listing Rules, enters into a dialogue with institutional shareholders to develop an understanding of their views and to communicate and explain the Companys objectives.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet regularly with shareholders and report to the Board following these meetings.
The Board is kept up to date with investors views through the distribution of analysts and brokers notes.
In addition, the Companys stockbroker periodically contacts shareholders and provides non-attributable feedback which is reported to the Board.
Following presentations to analysts of the interim and full year results, confidential exit polls are conducted by outside consultants and the results are reported to the Board.
From time to time more extensive formal surveys on a non-attributable basis are commissioned.
The Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director are available for meetings with shareholders in the event that there are any concerns which cannot be addressed through management, or in connection with any significant change to the Companys strategy, remuneration policy or governance arrangements.
The Chairman and senior independent non-executive director discussed governance and remuneration with certain institutional investors during the year.
The Board views the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate with both private investors and institutional shareholders and encourages them to attend.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the directors informally after the meeting.
The Chairman gives a formal report on the Companys progress at the meeting.
A copy of his statement is issued to the London Stock Exchange and is published on the Companys website.
All of the directors, with the exception of Dr Spivey who was unable to attend due to travel disruption caused by the Icelandic volcano eruption, attended the AGM in 2010.
The chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees were available to answer questions relating to their areas of responsibility.
The number of proxy votes cast for, against or withheld on the resolutions are reported to the meeting and, following the meeting, are published on the Companys website.
Committees of the Board The written Terms of Reference of the Committees are available on the Companys website, from the Company on request and will be on display at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of each Committee reports to the Board, as appropriate, and the minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
48 Laird PLC Audit Committee The Audit Committee members are all independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Committee is MrAMRobb and the other members of the Committee during the year were MrA JReading and Dr W R Spivey.
The Board ensures that at least one member has recent and relevant financial experience, currently Mr Robb, and it is satisfied that the Committee as a whole has suff icient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
The non-executive directors who are not members of the Audit Committee are also invited to attend meetings and frequently do so.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the external auditor are given notice of all meetings and may be invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The Committee and the external auditor met formally without any executive directors present once during the year.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Committee without any executive directors present whenever necessary and the Committee ensures that this happens at least once a year in order to discuss any issues or concerns from either party.
The Audit Committee, which met five times during the year, is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company which are relied upon by the Board.
The Audit Committee Terms of Reference which are available on the Companys website set out its responsibilities and procedures.
The Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements prior to their publication with particular reference to significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
During the year, the Annual Report and Accounts, the AGM and interim management statement, the Interim Report on the Results for the half year and the October interim management statement were reviewed by the Committee before recommending them to the Board for approval.
During the year, the Committee has overseen the Companys work on the Bribery Act 2010, which included reviewing the Companys existing Business Ethics and Conduct Policy in the light of the new Act and appointing Deloitte LLP to conduct an internal review of the Companys procedures.
It also received two formal reports on litigation and claims.
The Committee oversees the internal audit function and also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls.
The Committee considers the scope and planning of internal financial audits and reviews the process for identifying and managing financial risk and the findings of those audits.
Deloitte LLP, who provide global internal audit services under the direction of the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit, attended one Committee meeting during the year.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit briefed the Audit Committee three times on key internal audit matters and findings of internal audit investigations.
He had the opportunity at each meeting to meet with the Audit Committee without any executive directors present and he met separately with the Chairman of the Audit Committee on one further occasion during the year.
The Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Companys Business Ethics and Conduct Policy which is on the Companys website and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
A whistleblowing service, which off ers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent telephone and internet provider.
Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
A monthly report on any calls received is sent to senior management.
Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit with findings reported to the Board.
The appointment and terms of engagement of Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditor, including the proposed fee structure, were considered and the independence of the external auditor assessed.
The Committee considered the scope and planning of the external financial audit and assessed the eff ectiveness of the audit process, including a report on the audit firms own internal quality control procedures.
The Committee has reviewed Ernst & Youngs key policies for maintaining objectivity and independence, including the policy for the rotation of audit partners which requires a new lead audit partner to be appointed every five years.
In accordance with this policy, there will be a change in the lead audit partner after the Annual Report and Accounts for 2010 have been signed.
The Committee also recommends for Board approval a policy for non-audit services to be performed by the auditor, particularly in cases where the auditors opinion is required by statute such as circulars to shareholders, so as to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
This policy prohibits the use of the external audit firm for certain specified matters and the hiring of its former employees.
There are often sound commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using Ernst & Young LLP to provide non-audit services.
During the year, Ernst&YoungLLP provided tax planning and compliance advice, regulatory Laird PLC 49 Corporate governance report continued for the to ended 31 December 2010 compliance work and undertook work in connection with the acquisition of Cattron Group International, Inc. in November 2010.
Where applicable, competitive quotes are obtained.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page79.
The Committee has authority to seek any information it requires from any off icer or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
It believes that it has received suff icient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
The Audit Committee can take such independent professional advice as it considersnecessary.
The Committee recommended to the Board, the re-election of Ernst & Young LLP as the external auditor.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and at least two non-executive directors.
It is chaired by MrNJKeen and comprised Mr A J Reading and SirChristopher Hum.
MrAMRobb attended the Committee meeting when MrReadings re-appointment was considered.
The Committee, in consultation with the Chief Executive, regularly reviews the structure, size and composition including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
At least annually the Committee reviews the performance of the Chief Executive.
It is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board having regard to the overall skills balance and composition of the Board.
It reviews and advises upon succession planning and takes into account the need to refresh the Board ensuring that changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
The Committee is assisted by external search consultancies in identifying suitable candidates.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by MrAJReading and currently comprises the Chairman, MrN J Keen, and all the other non-executive directors, who are all considered to be independent.
It met six times in 2010 and is responsible for recommending to the Board the Companys general policy on remuneration and in particular to determine the remuneration and benefits of the executive directors, the grant of all options and award of shares under the Companys Long Term Incentive Scheme.
In accordance with the Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of the Board is not the chairman of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee, excluding the Chairman, determines the remuneration of the Chairman and the terms of his appointment.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, when requested by the Chairman of the Committee, attends a portion of the meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive is consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other executive directors and employees.
Further details on the Remuneration Committee are to be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages52 to62.
Administration Committee The Administration Committee of the Board consists of any two or more directors and deals with items of a routine and administrative nature.
Share Capital Information on the Companys share capital is set out on page43 of the Directors report and in note 29 on page99.
Internal control Laird PLC is a holding company registered in the UK with businesses primarily located overseas.
These businesses are organised as subsidiary companies where the management of these companies are appointed to manage within the framework established by the Laird PLC Board, as well as complying with local statutory and regulatory requirements.
Overall responsibility for Lairds systems of internal control and reviewing their eff ectiveness lies with the Laird PLC Board, who ensure that a review is carried out at least annually to assess the adequacy of those systems.
Primary responsibility for systems of internal control rests with the managers of the subsidiaries.
Laird PLCs executive directors are responsible for implementing Group policy and for monitoring the businesses and performance of operating companies and units and reporting to the Board thereon.
The financial information received by Laird PLC is reviewed at divisional level as well as by the Finance Department of Laird PLC which reviews the consolidation and financial statements to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
50 Laird PLC An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group is in place and complies with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
This process has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the accounts were approved by the Board.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives as well as safeguarding the Groups assets.
These systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Group operating rules are issued periodically to the managers of subsidiaries setting out their responsibilities and delegated authorities.
These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to Laird PLCs executive directors.
In addition, through a risk and controls self-assessment process, they are required to identify the key risk and control issues that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage them.
The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board as part of the annual risk review process.
A risk management update, reporting emergent risks and any changes to the risk environment, is presented at all Board Meetings.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which aff ect Laird as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations as it considers necessary.
Risk management strategy, risk performance monitoring and risk oversight at Group level for all areas including operational, environmental and health and safety risk rests with the Laird Risk Management Group RMG.
The RMG is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board.
Co-ordination of risk identification and review and actions in all areas below corporate level and improvements in controls and operational risk management are driven by the Laird Risk Management Committee RMC, chaired by the President of one of Lairds business divisions, with representation for all divisions and Lairds functions.
During the year, the RMC met three times and the RMG met twice, with the third RMG meeting replaced by a facilitated risk review exercise conducted with the full Board.
The Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Chairman of the RMC are members of both committees, reinforcing consistency and linking between Lairds risk management strategy and its implementation in all countries.
Further details on the RMG and RMC are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages28 to34.
The Chief Executive and the Managing Director review in detail, at least twice a year, the environmental, health and safety policies and at least annually, the Director of Risk Management presents these findings to the Board.
Environmental, health and safety updates are provided at each Board meeting.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages28 to34.
As noted above, the Audit Committee reviews the Group and Companys financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the process for identifying and managing financial risk and for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal financial control including reports by the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and the Finance Director and the results from internal financial audits.
As part of their audit, the external auditor, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
By Order of the Board A M Downie Secretary 9 March 2011 Registered off ice 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
