Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 36 Corporate governance Report The Company is incorporated in the Isle of Man, The current membership of the Board and the where there is no formal Code covering Corporate commitments of the Directors are stated on page 37, Governance.
However, as the shares of the Company which record the names of the Chairman, the Senior are listed on the Official List of the London Stock Independent Director and the Chief Executive Officer.
Exchange and as the Board is strongly committed to The names of the Chairmen and members of each of the highest standards of corporate governance, the the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Board applies the provisions of the Combined Code on are detailed below under the respective Committee Corporate Governance published in 2008 the Code summaries.
as if the Company was incorporated in the United Kingdom.
The Company is aware of the terms of the The Board met six times during the year and one UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2010. of these meetings was conducted by telephone via a conference call.
This meeting was required to deal with The Code seeks to ensure that the Company is run a specific business matter which arose as part of the in a manner whereby the interests of shareholders are normal business of the Group and which needed to be protected and as such the Code sets out principles addressed between scheduled Board meetings.
In of good corporate governance together with addition, the Board executes a number of resolutions specific provisions.
in writing to conduct Company business.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have met statement of compliance with the provisions without the executives present when necessary and of good governance the Executive Directors maintain frequent verbal and The Directors consider that throughout 2010 and up to written contact with the Non-Executive Directors to the date hereof, the Company has applied the discuss various issues affecting the Company and its principles and complied with the provisions of the business.
The agenda and appropriate supporting Code, subject to exceptions identified in this report.
Board papers are distributed by the Secretary to the Board on a timely basis.
the Board The Board plans to meet at least six times in a year.
The role of the Board is to provide leadership of the Company, set values and standards, and to ensure that the Companys obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are met.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to itself for decision, including but not limited to, matters of a strategic nature, approval of the annual budget, approval of major acquisitions, investments and disposals, major changes to the Groups capital structure, the preparation of financial statements, the recommendation or declaration of dividends, the entry into contracts which are deemed to be material strategically or by reason of size, succession planning and appointments to the Board, executive remuneration, ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal controls, reviewing its own and its Committees performance, and reviewing the Companys overall corporate governance arrangements.
ComPany Business CoRPoRate finanCial oveRview Review goveRnanCe statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 37 Attendance by the Directors at the meetings of the Board and its Committees are summarised in the table below: Audit Remuneration Nomination Meeting description Board Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 6 3 5 2 Jonathan Silver 6 n a n a n a Chairman of the Company Colin Goodall 5 3 5 2 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Richard Raynaut 6 3 5 2 Non Executive Director Brian Fredrick 5 3 5 2 Non Executive Director Nigel McCue 6 n a n a n a Chief Executive Officer 1 Peter Whitbread 1 n a n a n a Director of International Development Scott Doak 6 n a n a n a Chief Financial Officer 1 Peter Whitbread retired from the Board of Directors on 7 June 2010 and was eligible to attend three meetings of the Board.
The Group maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
Chairman and Chief executive Section 1 A.
2.2 of the Code states that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual and responsibilities between these roles should be clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman on appointment should meet the independence criteria set out in Section 1 A.
Nigel McCue is the Chief Executive Officer and Jonathan Silver is the Non-Executive Chairman.
Jonathan Silver is a partner of a firm that represents the Company as one of its legal advisers.
Jonathan Silver was therefore not deemed independent on appointment as the Chairman of the Company.
However, the Board and the Nomination Committee, considering his performance, experience and his detailed knowledge of the Company and the Middle East, believe that, despite his lack of independence on appointment, Jonathan Silvers appointment as the Chairman of the Company is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Board balance and independence The Board currently has seven Directors, consisting of four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, Jonathan Silver, to be independent in accordance with the definition of the Code and their appointment to be in the best interests of the shareholders.
To that end, half of the Board excluding the Chairman as cited above, is comprised of NonExecutive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Directors believe that the extensive knowledge and experience of the Non-Executive Directors combined with the focus and experience of the Executive Directors, enable the Board to lead and give direction to the Group without any imbalance that may allow any individual or Group of individuals to dominate its decision making.
Any Director having a concern in this or any other regard may raise this with the Chairman or the Senior Independent Director.
For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 38 Corporate governance Report Colin Goodall has been appointed as the Senior Non-Executive Directors will be available at the AGM to Independent Non-Executive Director and is available to meet with shareholders.
shareholders if they have any concerns for which contact through the normal channels of Chairman and The Directors are entitled to take independent Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer professional advice, at the Companys expense, if cannot be resolved or for which such contact is required.
Directors have access to the advice and inappropriate.
services of the Secretary to the Board, who is responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures The Board considers that independence is a matter of and applicable rules and regulations are observed, and judgment and therefore it believes that the Nonfor advising the Board, through the Chairman, on Executive Directors should be free from any business governance matters.
The agenda for each Board and or other relationships that could materially interfere in Committee meeting is considered by the relevant the exercise of their independent judgment.
It is the Chairman and papers for each scheduled formal Boards policy to provide its Non-Executive Directors Board and Committee meeting are provided fair remuneration for the contribution they make with beforehand.
In addition, the Chairman maintains respect to the business and affairs of the Company regular contact with the Executive Directors to discuss and the responsibilities they undertake in performing specific issues.
their duties as Non-Executive Directors.
Directors are free to meet individual members of the appointments to the Board senior management team and have done so during the All appointments to the Board are based on the year under review.
The Board and its Committees recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The receive briefings on legislative and regulatory composition and working of the Nomination developments and new accounting requirements as Committee are explained under Principal Board appropriate and believe that, given the experience and Committees on page 39.
The terms and conditions of skills of its Directors, the identification of general appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are training needs is best left to individual discretion.
available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be No Director took independent professional advice available at the AGM 15 minutes prior to the meeting during the year.
Performance evaluation induction and professional development A performance evaluation of the Chairman, the Board, A formal induction programme is provided to new its members and the Committees was conducted Directors on their appointment.
The programme is through a questionnaire led interview with other designed to cover Companies Act requirements, members of the Board.
The questionnaires included a dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules review of the Directors attendance at Board meetings, and the Model Code on Directors dealings in securities the Board agenda, those areas on which the Board contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services should focus during its meetings, the effectiveness of Authority in the United Kingdom, Board and business the roles of the Chairman and Non-Executive related matters, meetings with senior management, Directors, Board procedures and administration, and site visits and the opportunity to meet with major the operation of the Boards Nominations, Audit and shareholders.
The Company encourages Directors Remuneration Committees.
The results were to refresh their knowledge and skills and to keep up considered satisfactory by the Board.
to date with the latest developments in corporate governance, financial reporting, the industry and market The performance evaluation of the Board, its members conditions.
The Company reimburses any expenses and its Committees takes place on an annual basis.
Retirement and re-election Major shareholders have had discussions with the In accordance with the Companys Articles of Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Association, all Directors are subject to election at the Director Colin Goodall and the Chairman of the first AGM after their appointment and one third, or the Remuneration Committee Brian Fredrick.
All the number nearest to one third of the Board, shall retire ComPany Business CoRPoRate finanCial oveRview Review goveRnanCe statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 39 from office at every AGM.
Any Director in office for more Other members of the Audit Committee also have than three years at the start of an AGM shall also retire.
Accordingly, Nigel McCue and Colin Goodall will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Furthermore Christopher Hand, Meetings of the Audit Committee are held not less than who was appointed to the Board on 26 January 2011, three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer is invited also stands for election.
Nigel McCue and Colin to attend meetings, where appropriate, and the Goodall, being eligible, both offer themselves for Companys auditors are regularly invited to attend reappointment.
The biographical details of Nigel McCue meetings, including once at the planning stage before and Colin Goodall, the Directors proposed for rethe audit and once after the audit at the reporting stage.
election, and Christopher Hand, can be found on pages Other Board members may also be invited to attend, 30 and 31.
The Chairman confirms that following formal although at least once a year the Audit Committee performance evaluation, the performance of both Nigel meets the Companys external auditors without McCue and Colin Goodall continues to be effective and management being present.
The terms of reference of that they demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The the Audit Committee include consideration of matters Board supports the re-election of the retiring Directors, relating to the appointment of the Companys auditors Nigel McCue and Colin Goodall, together with the and the independence of the Companys auditors, election of the new Director Christopher Hand.
reviewing the integrity of the Companys annual and interim reports, preliminary results announcements and Directors remuneration any other formal announcement relating to its financial The principles and details of Directors remuneration performance.
The Audit Committee also reviews the are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report effectiveness of the Groups system of internal audit, on pages 42 to 53.
The composition and working of internal control and compliance procedures.
the Remuneration Committee are explained under Principal Board Committees on page 40.
The Audit Committee has established and monitors the Groups policy in relation to non-audit services Principal Board Committees provided by the external auditor, with a view to The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration and ensuring objectivity, independence and cost Nomination Committees.
A summary of the activities of effectiveness.
each committee is set out below.
The Committees are constituted with appropriate written terms of reference, The Audit Committee also monitors the procedure to which are reviewed annually and are available on the ensure that employees may raise ethical concerns in Companys website.
The Committee terms of confidence.
The Audit Committee has designated the references did not require any material changes further Chief Financial Officer as the Compliance Officer: to the annual review.
The minutes of meetings and or employees also have access to the Audit Committee reports from the Chairmen of the Committees are if the Compliance Officer has not dealt with their made available to the Board for its next scheduled concerns satisfactorily.
meeting following the Committee meeting in question, or as soon as practicable thereafter.
The Company has adopted a code of conduct covering all employees including senior executives: Audit Committee the compliance with this code of conduct is monitored The members of the Audit Committee are Richard by the Human Resource department.
The code of Raynaut, who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall and conduct includes amongst others, the prohibition of Brian Fredrick.
Others may be co-opted onto the bribery and political donations.
Committee by the Committee members.
The Board considers all the members of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met including meetings by who are Non-Executive Directors to be independent in conference call three times during the year and the character and judgment and free from any relationship attendance at its meetings is reported on page 37. or circumstance which may, or could or would be likely to, or which appears to, affect their judgment.
Richard Nomination Committee Raynaut, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has The current members of the Nomination Committee relevant and recent financial experience having retired are Colin Goodall, who acts as Chairman, Richard from his position as Chief Financial Officer in 2004.
The Nomination For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 40 Corporate governance Report Committees terms of reference are to periodically covering strategic, commercial, operational and financial review the structure, size and composition, including aspects of the business, lies with the management.
the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make its financial reporting recommendations to the Board with regard to any The statement on the responsibilities of the Directors in changes.
The Nomination Committee also considers relation to the preparation of the accounts and the the future composition of the Board, taking into Directors evaluation of the business as a going account the challenges and opportunities facing the concern is contained in the Directors Report on pages Company, and skills and expertise needed on the 32 to 35.
The Nomination Committee also makes recommendations to the Board about the membership internal audit of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Audit Committee evaluated the performance of the internal audit function from the quality of reports On 26 January 2011, Christopher Hand was appointed received from the Groups internal auditors, feedback to the Board, based on the recommendation of the from management, and an assessment of work Nomination Committee.
During the year the Company has undertaken Internal Control Self The Nomination Committee met including meetings by Assessment in the absence of internal audit.
In March conference calls twice during the year and the 2010, as per the Companys long-term plan, an attendance at its meetings is reported on page 37. independent internal audit function was established within the organisation, and Ravindra Dabir was Remuneration Committee appointed as the Vice President-Internal Audit.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Brian Fredrick, who acts as Chairman, Colin Goodall internal control and Richard Raynaut.
Brian Fredrick took over the The control environment, risk management system Chairmanship of the Committee from Richard Raynaut and assurance processes, being the three key in June 2009.
The terms of reference of the elements leading to a robust system of internal control Remuneration Committee provide for it to determine in the Group, are described below.
and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Companys Chief There exists a clear organisational structure for the Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the control and monitoring of the Groups businesses, Chief Financial Officer, other Executive Directors, the including defined lines of responsibility and delegation Company Secretary and other such members of the of authority.
The business follows policies and executive management as it is designated to consider.
procedures which amongst other matters, include The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a policies for the Company and its employees on health matter for the Executive Directors.
No Director or and safety, security, the environment, corporate social manager may be involved in any decisions as to his responsibility and areas of legal compliance.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, The Remuneration Committee met including meetings evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by by conference call five times during the year.
This has been in place for the year under attendance at its meetings is reported on page 37. review and up to the date of this annual report and is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The accountability and audit Directors are aware that the Groups risk management The Board plays a direct role in the development of the systems cannot completely eliminate risks and thus Groups internal controls and risk management systems there can never be an absolute assurance against the in addition to overseeing controls and risk management Group failing to achieve its objectives or a material loss procedures via the Audit Committee.
In the Boards regular review of the Groups primary responsibility for developing and implementing strategic plans, consideration is given to those risks internal control and risk management procedures which have been identified as potential impediments ComPany Business CoRPoRate finanCial oveRview Review goveRnanCe statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41 to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Audit Committee, in accordance with the The Board receives regular formal updates from Policy on Auditor Independence and adopted by the management on the key risks and the related controls Group, and having considered the nature of work to be in relation to the Groups existing business and, if carried out believes that, whilst being cost effective, the appropriate, on potential new business.
Management appointment of the external auditor to provide this thoroughly considers risks associated with undertaking advice did not affect the objectivity, or the new business.
independence, of the external auditor.
The Directors receive assurances from the following Dialogue with institutional shareholders internal and external controls: The Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Annual self assessment of agreed internal controls Director, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief by process owners and review of such results by Financial Officer have regular meetings with major the internal auditors: shareholders and research analysts.
The Board receives Regular executive reports from management in regular feedback from analysts and major shareholders, areas covering key issues, performance, business compiled by the Companys brokers and financial outlook, human resources and health, safety and public relations consultants, in particular, following environment: presentations and meetings after the publication of Financial performance reports including analyses of financial results.
The principal method of communicating significant variances regularly reported by the with the majority of shareholders is via the annual report management: and accounts and the Companys website, which External audit reports, presentations and contains details of financial presentations to analysts, management letters from the Groups auditors: press releases and other information about the Group.
Reports from the internal audit function: All shareholders have the opportunity to attend the Reports from internal quality audits: AGM.
All Directors were present at the 2010 AGM and Reports from the Audit Committee.
all Directors intend to be present at the 2011 AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control Constructive use of the agm including financial, operational and compliance The Board uses the AGM as an occasion to controls and risk management systems.
Where communicate with all shareholders, including private material weaknesses have been identified, safeguards investors, who are provided with the opportunity to are implemented and monitored.
At the AGM the total number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution categorised audit Committee and auditor as for, against, and votes withheld will be made The composition and working of the Audit Committee available both at the meeting and subsequently on are explained under Principal Board committees on the Companys website.
Each separate issue is page 39. presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration The Audit Committee has reviewed the performance Committees will be available to answer questions of , the external auditor, from shareholders.
who retires at the end of the AGM.
 LLC, being eligible, The Notice of the AGM, and related papers containing has indicated its willingness to accept appointment the text of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, and as successor auditor and the Audit Committee explanatory notes, where necessary, will be posted to recommends its appointment.
The Board concurs the shareholders at least 20 working days before the with the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The interim and preliminary results of the Company, along with all other press releases, are During the year, the external auditor posted on the Companys website, www.
com, , was also engaged to provide as soon as they are announced and are available tax advice in connection with the Group's activities in for download.
