Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate governance report In keeping with our commitment to the highest standards of corporate governance, we began to implement the new UK Corporate Governance Code provisions in 2010.
Leadership and strategy Find out more Biographical details of the members of What is the Boards composition?
the Board are set out on pages 44 to 46.
The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors: two of whom are women.
Experience, both current and past, ranges across the UK, European and international IT and other sectors.
In addition to signi cant strengths in multinational business leadership and the development and implementation of strategy, the Board collectively also has high level experience of international finance, risk control, corporate governance and market communications.
Further information about the Board, What were the major issues discussed in 2010?
its meetings, governance structure and The wide range of topics reviewed by the Board during the year included the Groups Committees is set out on pages 55 to 62. medium and long-term strategy: performance against the 2010 budget: the budget for The activities of each of the Boards 2011: reports from the Groups operating segments and service lines as well as our Committees are summarised on pages German and Global Operations arms: major bids: major commercial contracts: Group 60 to 62. debt and nancing facilities: risk management and internal and external audit reports: HR operations and pension schemes: Group tax and treasury policies: insurance strategy: the Groups 2009 annual results and accounts: interim results announcements: dividends: investor relations: Board composition and performance: corporate social responsibility: developments in corporate governance and signi cant new legislation.
Effectiveness Find out more Further information about the external How effective has the Board been in 2010?
evaluation process, its recommendations A performance review is carried out annually which covers the e ectiveness of the Board, and results is set out on page 57. its Committees and its individual members.
In 2010 a full external review was conducted in line with this process and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In outline, the conclusion of the review was that the Board is operating very e ectively with its members possessing all the skills the Company requires.
There is seen to be a very positive working environment with high levels of openness, support and challenge.
However, there are opportunities for further improvement which are summarised on page 57.
Further information about internal control, How did we mitigate risks and uncertainties?
risk management and the related financial Our internal control systems cover all material controls including financial, operational reporting process is set out on pages 58 and compliance as well as risk management systems, in accordance with the Turnbull and 59. guidance and the Combined Code.
For our principal risks see pages 24 and 25.
The presentation from our meeting with How did we communicate with our investors?
investors in December 2010 is accessible Communicating with shareholders is a key priority for the Board.
The Group Chairman at www.
com investors and Senior Independent Director are responsible for ensuring that the Board is accessible to major shareholders and that channels for communication are open.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the Board is aware of any concerns raised by major shareholders and that their views are considered.
The Chief Executive O cer and Chief Financial O cer met regularly with our investors in 2010 and the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director met occasionally with investors.
In addition, the Investor Relations team organised roadshows, seminars, conferences, presentations and other activities that enabled the Directors to engage with investors.
54 Governance Corporate governance report Compliance any material increases to finance The Non-Executive Directors meet The Company is listed on both the London facilities without the Executive Directors present and Amsterdam stock exchanges and has t he terms of reference of all Board following each Board meeting to consider complied with the listing requirements of Committees speci c agenda items and business matters.
the UK Listing Authority and the Authority ma jor commercial contracts review.
for the Financial Markets AFM in the Board attendance at scheduled Netherlands.
The Board supports the The Boards full Terms of Reference meetings Financial Reporting Councils FRC 2008 are available on our website The table below shows the attendance Combined Code on Corporate Governance www.
com governance or can of Directors at scheduled meetings the Combined Code www.
be obtained from the Company Secretary.
We believe that we have fully complied with the Combined Code throughout 2010 Board Meetings Meetings Possible apart from in the limited circumstances In 2010 the Board held six scheduled Name attended attendance described on page 61, where an explanation Board meetings.
At each meeting the David Tyler 6 6 has been provided.
Chief Executive O cer and the Chief Andy Green 6 6 Financial and Operations O cer reported Seamus Keating 6 6 The Board to the Board on Group operational Jan Babiak 6 6 The Board has developed strategies and performance and financial matters.
Sergio Giacoletto 6 6 policies to determine and achieve its goals In addition, progress with strategy was Nol Harwerth 6 6 and uses appropriate and prudent controls reviewed regularly with updates at each Wolfhart Hauser 6 6 to manage the process.
The Boards meeting from two business units.
During Roger Payne 2 2 standards and values are implemented the year, additional Board meetings were Frdric Rose 5 6 with the assistance of our executive held to deal with a variety of matters Crister Stjernfelt 3 3 management, central finance, commercial, including the Groups annual accounts legal and administrative departments and and interim management statements, denotes Board changes during the year the internal audit function.
the Groups nancing facilities and the In order to retain control of all operation of the Groups share plans.
Changes to the Board in 2010 are set out signi cant matters the Board speci cally The range of issues discussed during on page 52. reserves for its own approval a range of the year is outlined on page 54.
Biographical details of the current issues including: In order to re ect our broad Directors can be found on pages 44 to 46. the Groups strategic plans geographical spread and to provide the the annual operational plans and Board with a higher level of visibility, budgets at least two Board meetings are held the annual and interim results and outside the UK each year.
In 2010, meetings published financial statements were also held in the Netherlands and major capital expenditure commitments Portugal.
In 2011, meetings outside the treasury policies UK are scheduled for France and India.
Governance structure Board of Directors Executive Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee see pages 46 to 49 Jan Babiak Chairman Nol Harwerth Chairman David Tyler Chairman Sergio Giacoletto Frdric Rose Jan Babiak Wolfhart Hauser David Tyler Sergio Giacoletto Andy Green Nol Harwerth 55 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 Seamus Keating was appointed in Governance structure Non-Executive Directors December 2010, as CEO, Benelux and The Board has set up Audit, Nominations independence Group Chief Operations O cer.
During and Remuneration Committees, the The valuable contribution of our 2010 he was the Groups Chief Financial Terms of Reference of which are available independent Non-Executive Directors and Operations O cer and will continue on our website www.
Their independence in his role as Chief Financial O cer until a governance or can be obtained from has been considered by the Board which replacement is appointed.
Details of the has concluded that each of them is Jan Babiaks appointment was activities of these Committees are set independent in character and judgment.
approved by shareholders at the 2010 out on pages 60 to 62.
Our governance We believe that they all bring broad and AGM in accordance with our Articles of structure is set out in the diagram on relevant experience and make valuable Association.
page 55. contributions to achieving our objectives.
All of the Directors intend to retire They do not act with self-interest and their and seek re-election by shareholders Chairman and Chief Executive Officer primary aims are to maximise shareholder at the next AGM and subsequent AGMs, There is a clear division of responsibility value and develop the Group in line with following the principles set out in the between the Chairman and the Chief our strategic goals.
None of the Nonnew UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chairman is Executive Directors, including the Further details of the re-election of the responsible for ensuring the e ectiveness Chairman, hold signi cant external Directors can be found on page 53 and of the Board and is Chairman of the commitments which interfere with their in the notes to the AGM Notice on our Nominations Committee.
He also liaises ability to execute their responsibilities website at www.
with the Chief Executive O cer on e ectively.
The Chief Executive Annual General Meeting O cer is responsible for the overall Conflicts of interests All Directors are expected to attend management of the Groups operations.
The Board has the approval of our our AGM to answer shareholders shareholders to authorise con icts questions, with the Chairmen of the Executive Directors or potential con icts of interests in Audit, Remuneration and Nominations In addition to membership of the appropriate circumstances and has Committees present to answer any Board, both of our Executive Directors established a procedure to ensure that questions on the responsibilities play a major role in driving our Executive these powers operate e ectively.
Under and activities of their Committees.
Committee, the Groups most senior this procedure, Directors must give All Directors attended the 2010 operational body, charged with written noti cation of any potential AGM except for Crister Stjernfelt, recommending and implementing the con icts of interests of which they are who was unable to attend for personal Boards strategy worldwide.
In order to aware on appointment or of which they reasons.
To ensure that the views enhance their wide ranging experience, become aware subsequently.
These of all shareholders are re ected Executive Directors are normally permitted noti cations are recorded by the proportionately, it is our policy for to accept one non-executive appointment Company Secretary and submitted to all resolutions to be voted on a poll.
in another listed company and all such the Board for review and authorisation, appointments must be approved by the as appropriate.
Any changes to existing Board.
Executive Directors may retain interests are reviewed at the next Board fees paid in connection with an external meeting.
A copy of the procedure is appointment and details of any fees provided to all new Directors and an received can be found in the Directors explanation forms part of our induction remuneration report on page 72. programme for new Directors.
We con rm that the procedure referred to above has operated e ectively during the year and to date.
56 Governance Corporate governance report Induction and training Board performance 2010 Communication with shareholders On appointment, all Directors undergo The Board is subject to a performance The way we communicate with our a comprehensive induction programme, review each year which covers its own shareholders is a key priority for the tailored to their individual requirements.
e ectiveness and that of its Committees Group.
We encourage an active dialogue The induction programme includes and individual members.
In advance of the with shareholders and ensure that training on: implementation of the new UK Corporate opportunities for engagement, such as at Directors duties and responsibilities Governance Codes provisions on Board the AGM and meetings with institutional Board procedures and  reviews, the 2010 evaluation investors, are used e ectively to provide related issues was carried out externally by Edis-Bates a clear understanding of our objectives con icts of interests Associates.
The review took into account and performance.
In 2010, the Chairman, procedures for dealing in Logica plc factors such as composition, expertise, the Chairman of the Remuneration shares.
information ows, roles, responsibilities Committee and the Senior Independent and procedures.
An external evaluation Director held meetings with a number of In addition, new Directors meet with the will be carried out every three years.
existing and prospective shareholders in heads of the major business units and all The external evaluator sent a order to understand their views more Directors receive appropriate ongoing comprehensive questionnaire on the comprehensively.
In addition, the Chief training and updates to improve their Board and Committees to each Director, Executive O cer, Chief Financial and knowledge and skills.
following which one-to-one interviews Operations O cer and the Head of Directors also make a number of site were conducted with each of them.
Investor Relations held meetings with visits as part of the induction programme.
The information from the interviews shareholders regarding the Groups Members of individual Committees was compiled into a report which was normal course of business.
In total, during receive speci c training in connection presented to the Board in February 2011. the year, members of the Board and with their duties, which includes In summary, the conclusion of the Investor Relations met with around 300 attendance at seminars and brie ngs by report was that the Board is operating shareholders, or their representatives at external advisers.
They are also invited to very e ectively with its members investor meetings and conferences.
attend an annual leadership conference.
possessing all the skills the Company All shareholders are invited to the The training requirements are subject requires.
There is seen to be a very AGM which provides an opportunity to regular review.
positive working environment with high for developments in the business to levels of openness, support and challenge.
be explained and shareholders to ask Board support It was felt that some improvements could questions of any of the Directors.
The Company Secretary and her team be made in succession planning, Our website www.
com provide administrative and logistical the process for reviewing strategy, investors provides a source of support to the Board.
Advice and support the presentation of financial reports information for all shareholders about are also given on governance, compliance and in certain administrative matters.
the Group and contains financial and regulatory matters.
The Company The Board plans to address these presentations, investor publications Secretary is available to advise all issues during 2011. including the online annual report and Directors and ensure that Board Regular meetings are held between press releases.
Our financial reporting procedures are complied with.
The the Chairman and the Non-Executive is presented in such a way as to provide Directors may also seek independent Directors to discuss the performance of a balanced and understandable professional advice at the Companys the Board and any matters of relevance assessment of our position and expense.
No such advice was sought or concern.
Where appropriate, action prospects for future growth.
is taken to address any concerns of the Directors.
57 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 The Board is made aware of shareholders t he mandatory policies include an Our annual controls self-assessment views through direct feedback from authority matrix, setting out the levels process was re ned and re-run in face-to-face meetings and presentations of authority delegated to individual September 2010 to complement Group with institutional shareholders.
If Board members and senior executives internal audit work.
Countries and shareholders or investors do not wish on a wide range of matters including entities were required to complete self to follow the usual methods of those relating to capital expenditure, assessments for areas where no internal communication, our Senior Independent property leases and freeholds, bids audit work had been performed during Director is available to meet with them.
and commercial contracts, publicity, the year.
As well as covering the overall Directors are regularly updated on treasury issues, employment matters control environment, the assessments shareholder and market issues by external and legal disputes covered nine major business process analysts reports and internal brie ngs.
t he annual planning and budgeting areas from project control and Our Investor Relations department is process includes consideration of key procurement, to HR, finance, taxation and dedicated to facilitating communication strategic and operational risks.
The accuracy of with both institutional and retail investors.
Chief Executive O cer and Chief these self assessments will be validated, Finance O cer of each of our business on a sample basis, as part of subsequent Further information about Investor units produce written monthly reports Group internal audit reviews.
Relations and our principal shareholders for central analysis, which provide Our response to fraud risk continued can be found on the Companys website: detailed financial results, forecasts, to be monitored and, with the passing of www.
com investors cash ows and commentary on major the UK Bribery Act, a number of policy contracts, covering opportunities and and process developments have been Internal control threats within the business introduced.
They include a revision to the The Board has overall responsibility for t he Groups Chief Executive O cer service provided to support our external our system of internal control and for and Chief Financial and Operations whistleblowing line, which now includes reviewing its e ectiveness.
It delegates O cer conduct monthly business a multilingual telephone service and the responsibility for operating and reviews of our major business units email option.
monitoring the system to executive t he Groups Chief Executive O cer, management in each of our business Chief Financial and Operations O cer Risk management units.
The system is designed to manage and the Board carry out formal reviews The continuous monitoring of strategic and not eliminate risk of failure to achieve of major bids, where opportunities and operational risks is the responsibility business objectives and can only provide exceed speci ed monetary values of the Board and line management, reasonable and not absolute assurance or risk proles respectively.
In order to address these against material errors, losses, fraud or researc h and development and capital challenges on behalf of the Board, the breaches of laws or regulations.
investment programmes are subject Executive Committee has responsibility The key elements of our internal to formal review and approval for the regular evaluation of generic and controls are: q uality assurance teams are in place in speci c risks within the business and the all of our business units operate under all of our business units, supporting local implementation of mitigation plans to Group, mandatory, written policies and management in assuring and improving address them.
procedures, as set out in our business the quality of delivery.
These teams are The risk management process management system.
Policies and key to the operation and maintenance identi es, evaluates and manages significant risks faced by the Group.
procedures are kept under review by of the Groups ISO and other industry Risks are assessed with reference to the experienced individuals from across quality standard accreditations achievement of our business objectives the Group.
Key policies are reviewed as p art of our Executive Committees and according to current market and and approved by the Board regular review of our top eight business economic issues.
The year was the the mandatory policies include an risks, proposals to improve mitigations second in which we have completed a ethics policy and a con dential are presented and discussed cyclical process of top down and bottom disclosure policy, the latter of which o ur systems of internal control and our up review.
This process largely repeated sets out our whistleblowing internal control procedures are reviewed 2009, although the risks themselves arrangements and tested on a sample basis by Group were amended and in some areas, this Internal Audit.
The results of this work meant the addition of sub-risks.
Overall are routinely reported to our executive the Executive Committee-owned risks management and our Audit Committee.
were rationalised from ten to eight.
58 Governance Corporate governance report As referred to in the internal control the Group Reporting team, which them and seeks to ensure that the risk section above, clearly fide ned delegation undergoes quarterly technical training, management process adequately of responsibilities and authorisation levels provided by the external auditors, addresses all of our major risks.
contribute to a comprehensive system to ensure that they are up to date To ensure auditor objectivity and which exists for controlling these risks and on financial reporting standards and independence, a stringent process is ensuring they are adequately addressed.
good practice in place to approve non-audit work.
The key risks and measures to mitigate the financial reporting review process Proposed work must be approved by risks identied by the Board are listed on performed by the Group Finance the Chief Financial and Operations pages 24 and 25. function, which includes benchmarking, O cer before being passed to the Audit The conclusions arising out of the to compare country performance, Committee for approval at specic Groups risk management activities are identify risk areas and determine financial levels.
Proposed work is closely interlinked with the evaluation improvement actions for specic reviewed for compliance with regulatory and management of the Companys Key countries or for the Group as a whole requirements that preclude auditors from Performance Indicators KPIs, which data consolidated into the Groups performing certain types of work and to are set out on pages 20 to 23. financial statements is reconciled to the assess if the nature of the work would create a conict of interest now or in the underlying financial systems.
Copies of all internal audit reports Financial reporting process of the consolidated data is undertaken are automatically copied to the external In addition to the general internal control by management to ensure that the true auditors to ensure communication is both and risk management framework referred position and results of the Group are comprehensive and transparent.
to above, the following elements of the re ected, through compliance with Details of the remuneration of the internal control system are speci c to approved accounting policies and the external auditors for both audit and the financial reporting process: appropriate accounting for non-routine non-audit work can be found on page 60 the Groups mandatory policies transactions.
and in note 12 on page 98. covering reporting, which sets out what is to be reported monthly to the The Board con rms that it has continued Going concern Chief Executive O cer, and revenue to review the e ectiveness of the Groups The Directors, having made enquiries, recognition internal controls and risk management consider that the Company has adequate the Groups financial reporting system, processes during 2010 and up to the date resources to continue in operational which provides a sound basis for of this Report and that, during the period, existence for the foreseeable future, Group and Cluster management these reviews have covered all material and therefore it is appropriate to maintain review processes controls, including financial, operational the going concern basis in preparing the the businesses monthly Chief and compliance controls and risk financial statements.
Executive O cers reports, which management systems.
Where weaknesses include high level financial reporting have been identi ed or reported through of performance and major projects, the various mechanisms outlined above, for review by the Chief Executive appropriate corrective action is agreed.
Ocer, the Chief Financial and Operations Ocer and other senior External auditors members of the Group Finance and The Groups external auditors provide a Commercial functions supplementary, independent perspective the weekly cash ow and monthly on the overall integrity of those areas of foreign exchange exposure reports the internal control system which they from all countries, for review by the assess in the course of their work.
Their Group Treasurer and utilisation to findings are reported regularly to the ensure hedging control and cash Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee management for the Group assesses the evidence provided to 59 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 o ur 2009 full year and 2010 interim believes that some non-audit work Board Committees announcements such as certain assurance and advisory o ur 2009 annual report and accounts services may be best performed by Audit Committee which was recommended for approval the auditors as a result of their unique Composition re ports and updates from Group position and knowledge of our operations.
The composition of our Audit Committee Internal Audit including the internal The Committee reviews all non-audit work and its terms of reference re ect the audit plans for 2010 which additionally together with the auditors to ensure that Combined Code and the Smith guidance.
covered the management of our it is allowable under the FRCs regulations.
It comprises solely of independent internal controls Any regulatory allowable non-audit Non-Executive Directors.
We consider work with a value greater than 25,000 reports relating to our risk Jan Babiak to have recent and relevant requires formal approval by the Committee.
management process including any financial experience following her In 2010 the Committee also oversaw speci c key risks identi ed and the previous role as a managing partner the process for the rotation of the auditors impact of changing legislation and at Ernst and Young.
The membership lead audit partner.
regulations of the Committee and attendance at The Committee is authorised to our tax and treasury policies scheduled meetings in 2010 is set investigate any activity within its terms an extensive goodwill evaluation which out below.
of reference and to seek any information supported its carrying value with no that it requires from any employee.
It has Activities impairment considered necessary.
the right to consult professional advisers The Committees activities include the or, if it is not satisfied with the advice review and approval of presentations In addition, at each meeting the received, seek further independent and reports from senior management, Committee reviewed a variety of standing professional advice at the Companys consulting as necessary with the external items including progress on actions taken expense.
In 2010, the Committee in response to its representations: The Committee believes that the skills, speci cally reviewed and considered relevant legal, reporting practice and qualications and commercial experience the following: compliance developments: reports led of its members are appropriate for them the performance of the external auditor, under our con dential disclosure and to perform their duties.
 LLP PwC fraud policies: compliance with our and recommended their re-election code of ethical conduct, including Meetings PwCs reports and updates which whistleblowing, and any other special The Audit Committee meets with our summarised the conclusions from investigations falling under its terms of external auditors in private at least four the 2009 audit and included regular reference.
times a year and during the year had a feedback on the status of our control During the year, the Committee also satisfactory level of dialogue with them.
environment and managements reviewed and approved our policy for Two members constitute a quorum.
responsiveness to audit results using PwC for non-audit work.
The use The Chairman, Chief Executive O cer, PwCs 2010 proposed fee and of the auditors for book-keeping services Chief Financial and Operations O cer, audit strategy or other services related to accounting Group Financial Controller, Head of the appropriateness of our accounting records or financial statements is Internal Audit and other appropriate policies speci cally disallowed.
The Committee specialist functional managers attend meetings on request.
The Committee Date of Meetings Possible also met with the Head of Internal Audit Name membership attended attendance in private on four occasions during the year.
In addition, the Chairman of the Jan Babiak Chairman from Committee had meetings with both 5 May 2010 4 4 external and internal auditors on a Roger Payne Chairman until regular basis.
5 May 2010 1 1 Sergio Giacoletto Member from 2009 4 4 Wolfhart Hauser Member from 2007 4 4 60 Governance Corporate governance report Nominations Committee Meetings Although the composition of the Composition The Nominations Committee was Committee does not meet the strict The Nominations Committee comprises convened on one scheduled occasion recommendations of the Combined a majority of independent Non-Executive during 2010.
Two Committee members, Code, due to the membership of the Directors.
During 2010 the membership both of whom must be independent Companys Chairman, we believe that of the Committee and attendance at Non-Executive Directors, constitute a the wide range of knowledge and scheduled meetings was as follows: quorum.
Other Directors are entitled to experience brought to the Committee by a membership which has executive and non-executive experience in the IT Date of Meetings Possible industry and other sectors, both in the Name membership attended attendance UK and abroad, is particularly well suited David Tyler Chairman to our current requirements.
from 2007 1 1 Member from Activities Jan Babiak 23 June 2010 0 0 The Remuneration Committees principal Sergio Giacoletto Member from activities are to determine our senior 2009 1 1 executive remuneration policy and Andy Green Member from levels of remuneration for the Executive 2008 1 1 Directors, Executive Committee, certain Nol Harwerth Member from other members of senior management, 2008 1 1 the Company Secretary and the Head of Roger Payne Member until Internal Audit.
The Committee takes into 5 May 2010 1 1 consideration the pay and conditions of employment for employees when considering executives remuneration.
The Activities attend meetings by invitation and Chief Executive Ocer and the Groups The activities of the Committee additional meetings may be convened Chief People O cer non-Board member include reviewing the balance of skills, if required.
knowledge and experience of the The Committee has the right to Board and its Committees and making Remuneration Committee appoint independent advisers and, if it recommendations about any adjustments Composition is not satisfied with the advice received, considered necessary.
The Remuneration Committee comprises seek further independent professional The Committee oversees the search three independent Non-Executive Directors.
advice at the Companys expense.
and selection process for new Directors.
During 2010 the membership of the The Directors remuneration report, It can engage external independent Committee and attendance at scheduled which describes the Committees professional advisers to assist it when meetings was as follows: functions and its remuneration policies in seeking potential Board members.
more detail, is set out on pages 63 to 81.
A shortlist of candidates will normally be established and selected candidates will be interviewed and recommended Date of Meetings Possible for consideration by the Board.
Name membership attended attendance The Committee also reviews our Nol Harwerth Chairman from succession planning process which is 2007 4 4 designed to ensure leadership continuity Frdric Rose Member from within our most senior executive positions 2009 4 4 over the medium and long-term and to David Tyler Member from identify and develop individuals with the 2007 4 4 potential to take on key or critical management positions in the future.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for overseeing the Board appraisal process.
Copies of the Directors terms and conditions of appointment are available on request from the Company Secretary.
61 Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 The Committee believes that the skills, In preparing those financial statements, The Directors are responsible for the quali cations and commercial experience the Directors are required to: maintenance and integrity of the corporate of its members are appropriate for them sele ct suitable accounting policies and financial information included on the to perform their duties in accordance with and then apply them consistently Companys website www.
ma ke judgments and estimates Legislation in the United Kingdom that are reasonable and prudent governing the preparation and Meetings s tate that the Group Financial dissemination of financial statements may The Committee meets at least four times Statements comply with IFRSs as di er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
a year and any two members constitute adopted by the European Union EU Each of the Executive and Nona quorum.
and IFRSs issued by the IASB and, Executive Directors, whose names and with regard to the Parent Companys functions are referred to on pages 44 to 46, Statement of Directors Financial Statements, that applicable con rm that, to the best of their knowledge: Responsibilities in respect of UK Accounting Standards have been the Group financial statements, which the annual report, the Directors followed, subject to any material have been prepared in accordance remuneration report and the departures disclosed and explained with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, financial statements in the financial statements.
give a true and fair view of the assets, The Directors are responsible for liabilities, financial position and profit preparing the annual report, the Directors The Directors con rm that they have of the Group: and remuneration report and the Group and complied with the above requirements t he business review and risk factors the Parent Company Financial Statements in preparing the financial statements.
include a fair review of the development in accordance with applicable law and The Directors are responsible for and performance of the business and regulations.
keeping proper accounting records that the position of the Group, together with Company law requires the Directors disclose with reasonable accuracy at any a description of the principal risks and to prepare financial statements for each time the financial position of the Company uncertainties that it faces.
Under that law the Directors and the Group and to enable them to have prepared the Group Financial ensure that the Financial Statements By order of the Board Statements in accordance with International and the Directors remuneration report Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as comply with the Companies Act 2006 adopted by the European Union, and the and, with respect to the Group, Article 4 Parent Company Financial Statements of the IAS Regulation.
in accordance with applicable law and They are also responsible for Alice Rivers United Kingdom Accounting Standards safeguarding the assets of the Company Company Secretary United Kingdom Generally Accepted and the Group and hence for taking 8 March 2011 Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
reasonable steps for the prevention and In preparing the Group Financial detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with the IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and Parent Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of a airs of the Company and the Group and of the pro t or loss of the Group for that period.
