Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 51 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 Joint ventures Failure to achieve Impact: If similar standards are not implemented in Root cause: Some of the Groups operations are expected standards joint ventures, higher costs or lower production may controlled and managed by joint venture partners, of health, safety result and have a bearing on operational results, asset associates or by other companies.
Management of and environment values or the Groups reputation.
non-controlled assets may not comply with the performance in Groups standards.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by way of a thorough evaluation process before commitment to any joint venture and implementation of ongoing governance processes in existing joint ventures.
Acquisitions and divestments Failure to achieve Impact: Failing to deliver expected acquisitions Root cause: Benefits may not be achieved as expected benefits from can result in adverse financial performance, lower a result of changing or incorrect assumptions or any acquisition or value production volumes or problems with product quality.
materially different market conditions or deficiencies from assets or The Group could find itself liable for past acts or in the due diligence process.
omissions of the acquired business without any adequate right of redress.
Delays in the sale of assets or reductions in value may arise due to changing market conditions.
Failure to achieve expected values from the sale of assets or delivery beyond expected receipt of funds Mitigation: Rigorous guidelines are applied to may result in higher debt levels, underperformance of the evaluation and execution of all acquisitions that those businesses and possible loss of key personnel.
require the approval of the Investment Committee and Group Management Committee and, subject to size, the Board.
Infrastructure Inability to obtain Impact: Failure to obtain supporting facilities may Root cause: The potential disruption of ongoing adequate supporting affect the sustainability and growth of the business, generation and supply of power is a risk faced by the facilities, services and leading to loss of competitiveness, market share Group in a number of countries in which it operates.
The Groups operations and projects can be located power, road, rail and in countries or regions where power and water supplies port, etc.
Failure of rail or port facilities may result in delays are not certain and may be affected by population and increased costs as well as lost revenue and growth, the effects of climate change or lack of reputation with customers.
Failure to procure investment by owners of infrastructure.
shipping costs at competitive market rates may reduce profit margins.
The Group relies upon effective rail and port facilities for its products and will be expected to provide shipment of product in some circumstances to customers premises.
The Group relies on third parties to provide these services.
Mitigation: The Group seeks to work closely with suppliers of infrastructure to mitigate the risk of failure and has established contingency arrangements.
Long term agreements with suppliers are sought where appropriate.
Community relations Disputes with Impact: Failure to manage relationships with local Mitigation: The Group has developed comprehensive communities may arise communities, government and NGOs may disrupt processes to enable its business units to effectively from time to time.
operations and adversely affect the Groups reputation manage relationships with communities and actively as well as its ability to bring projects into production.
seeks engagement with all communities impacted by the Groups operations.
Root cause: The Group operates in several countries where ownership of rights in respect of land and resources is uncertain and where disputes in relation to ownership or other community matters may arise.
The Groups operations can have an impact on local communities including the need, from time to time, to relocate communities or infrastructure networks such as railways and utility services.
