92 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Corporate governance continued how do we CommuniCate with continental Europe and the US to account existing qualifications and experience.
communicate the strategy and performance Directors also have access to management, of Anglo American.
Executive directors, as and to the advice of the company secretary.
The Company maintains an active dialogue well as key executives, including business Furthermore, all directors are entitled to seek with its key financial audiences, including unit heads, host such presentations, independent professional advice concerning institutional shareholders and sell-side including seminars for investors and the affairs of Anglo American at its expense, analysts as well as potential shareholders.
analysts, and one on one meetings.
although no such advice was sought during The Investor Relations department manages Throughout the year, executive management 2010.
Presentations are made to the Board the dialogue with these audiences and also present at industry conferences, which by business management on the activities regular presentations take place at the time are mainly organised by investment banks of operations.
Directors undertake regular of interim and final results as well as during for their institutional investor base.
In late visits to operations and projects and, in 2010, the rest of the year.
An active programme of 2010, Sir John Parker met with a number of operations and projects in Australia, Brazil, communication with potential shareholders key investors to discuss Strategy, The Board, Chile, China, Peru and South Africa were is also maintained.
In addition, during the year, directors David Challen in his capacity as the SID attended courses seminars on corporate Board oversight works closely with Sir John to maintain his governance, finance and directors forums.
Any significant concerns raised by a understanding of the issues and concerns shareholder in relation to the Company and of major shareholders.
The chairman, SID The directors are given the opportunity to its affairs are communicated to the Board.
and other non-executive directors are also discuss their development needs with the The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the available to shareholders to discuss any chairman in individual feedback meetings.
Investor Relations department and analysts matter they wish to raise.
We look forward reports are circulated to the directors.
to increased communication with investors iPads for review of board materials Feedback from meetings held between following the recent introduction of the As part of our commitment to best practice executive management, or the Investor Stewardship Code.
and innovation, iPads were introduced in Relations Department, and institutional 2010 for the review of board papers, ensuring shareholders is also communicated to The Companys website fast and timely provision of information to the Board.
com provides the directors whilst at the same time reducing latest news and historical financial the environmental and financial impacts of Institutional investors information, details about forthcoming board meetings.
During the year there were regular events for shareholders and analysts, and presentations to and meetings with other information on Anglo American.
institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, We place a great deal of importance on maintaining an active dialogue with our investor base around the world.
We plan to increase our interaction in 2011 by further exposing our operating management to investors.
Ren Mdori Finance Director As soon as I saw the board papers on the iPad how does the Board deal with on a banking facility in which Citigroup was a I knew I would not need paper copies again.
In accordance with the Companys The iPad allows fast and secure delivery Articles and relevant legislation, an unconflicted of board materials and annotation of the Anglo American policy dictates that if a quorum of the Board can authorise potential documents is simple and effective.
director becomes aware that they have a conflicts and such authorisations can be Peter Woicke direct or indirect interest in an existing or limited in scope and are reviewed on an Non-Executive Director proposed transaction with Anglo American, annual basis.
During the year under review, they should notify the Board at the next board the conflict management procedures were meeting or by a written declaration.
Directors adhered to and operated effectively.
have a continuing duty to update any changes in these interests.
Mr Oppenheimer has always recused himself from any discussion involving a potential conflict of interest between fide Beers and the Company at the Anglo American board and during the year MrChallen recused himself from a discussion
