Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 91 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: Corporate governance Board and Committee meetings how do we promote exCellenCe frequenCy and attendanCe in the Board room?
Independent Board Audit S&SD remuneration nomination six three four three three Board effectiveness meetings meetings meetings meetings meetings As a direct result of the last external board Sir John Parker n a All All All evaluation, changes were made in strategy Cynthia Carroll No All All planning and improving communication with Ren Mdori No All major shareholders as well as in the areas of 1 1 David Challen Yes 5 All All 2 committee composition, talent management Sir C K Chow Yes All All All and succession planning.
2 Chris Fay Yes All All All The action plan that resulted from the Sir Philip Hampton Yes All All All 2 internally facilitated 2010 board effectiveness Sir Rob Margetts Yes All All review may be found on page 87.
Nicky Oppenheimer No All 3 Ray ORourke Yes 5 All All The next external evaluation of the Board is 4 Mamphela Ramphele Yes All All 2 planned for 2011 in accordance with the Jack Thompson Yes All All All recommendations made in the Code.
Peter Woicke Yes All All All All 1 Absence due to volcanic ash cloud travel disruption.
As in past years, the evaluation process 2 Meetings attended prior to retirement.
also included a review, chaired by the senior 3 Absence due to long standing commitment entered in to prior to his appointment.
independent non-executive director without 4 Unable to attend owing to telecommunications breakdown.
the chairman present, of the performance of the chairman.
The chairman has held individual briefings with each director to ensure what is the role A schedule of matters reserved for the that the necessary board and committee of the Board?
Boards decision details key aspects of the processes are functioning properly.
Since his Companys affairs that the Board does not appointment, Sir John has introduced a rolling The Board of directors has a duty to promote delegate including, among other things, agenda for the Board and instigated regular the long term success of the Company for its approval of business plans and budgets, informal meetings of the non-executives prior shareholders.
Its role includes the material expenditure and alterations to to each board meeting.
These meetings establishment, review and monitoring of share capital.
provide an opportunity, inter alia, to discuss strategic objectives, approval of major the performance of management and to air acquisitions, disposals and capital Every year the Board holds a two day strategy subjects outside the confines of the board expenditure and overseeing the Groups meeting at which the NEDs contribute their room in an informal and constructive manner.
systems of internal control, governance and expertise and independent perspective in risk management.
developing the strategy of the Company.
At every board meeting, time is set aside for a NEDs-only discussion and the Board also receives a governance update from how is the Board Composed?
Role of the senior independent director the company secretary highlighting SID developments in company law, corporate Role of the chairman David Challen is the senior independent governance and best practice.
The Board is chaired by Sir John Parker.
He is available to The chairman is responsible for leading the shareholders, acts as a sounding board and Board and for its effectiveness.
confidant for the chairman and is available how are direCtors trained?
as an intermediary for the other directors if Role of the chief executive necessary.
Anglo Americans directors have a wide range Cynthia Carroll is the chief executive and is of expertise as well as significant experience responsible for the execution of strategy and Independence of directors in strategic, financial, commercial and mining the day-to-day management of the Group, The Board has a strong independent element activities.
Upon appointment, directors are supported by the Group Management and currently comprises, in addition to the provided with recent board materials and a Committee GMC and the Executive chairman, two executive and eight nonreference manual containing information on Committee ExCo, both of which she chairs.
executive directors, seven of whom are legal obligations and other matters of which The functions and membership of GMC and independent according to the definitions they should be aware.
Guidance is provided ExCo are set out on page 90. contained in the Combined Code on on Market Conduct under the FSA, the Corporate Governance and the UK Corporate Companys Articles, the UK Corporate The Company has adopted the Institute of Governance Code together, the Codes.
The Governance Code and the Model Code.
The Chartered Secretaries and Administrators independent directors are indicated within the manual also includes items such as board and Statement of Division of Responsibilities table above, and full biographical details for committee terms of reference, relevant between the Chairman and the Chief each director are given on pages 88 and 89. company information and guidance on where Executive.
The letters of appointment of the nonto obtain independent advice.
The manual is executive directors as well as the executives updated periodically when appropriate.
service contracts are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
As part of the directors formal induction process, there are meetings with all senior None of the non-executive directors has executives in order to develop a full served concurrently with an executive director understanding of the complex nature of the for more than nine years.
Training and briefings are also available to directors on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into
