88 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 GovernAnce: The Board the Board N E Sir John Parker Cynthia Carroll FREng DSc Eng, ScD Hon, MSc, MBA DSc Hon, D. Univ Hon, FRINA 68, joined the Board as a nonUpon joining Anglo American 54, was appointed chief executive Streamlined Anglo Americans executive director on 9 July 2009 SirJohn stepped down as joint on 1 March 2007, having joined management reporting function, and became chairman of chairman of the Mondi Group and the Board on 15 January 2007. substantially changing the AngloAmerican plc on 1 August as chairman of BVT Surface Fleet Cynthia Carroll chairs the Group composition of the ExCo as well 2009.
SirJohn is also chairman of Limited.
Immediately prior to joining Management Committee GMC as the ExCo teams at Business the Nomination Committee and is a Anglo American he stepped down and the Executive Committee Unit level member of the Safety & Sustainable as senior non-executive director ExCo and sits on the S&SD Initiated renewed focus on safety, Development S&SD Committee.
Chair of the Court of the Bank Committee.
She is a non-executive with significant continuing He is also chairman of National of England.
director of BP plc and fide Beers and improvement in safety performance Grid plc, a non-executive director chairs Anglo Platinum.
and was the impetus behind the of Carnival Corporation, EADS and Tripartite safety alliance in deputy chairman of DP World.
Proven track record in improving South Africa Sir John is a Fellow of the Royal profitability and continues to lead Academy of Engineering, Chancellor Anglo Americans cost-cutting Cynthia is the former president of the University of Southampton drive target of $2 billion by the and chief executive officer of and a Visiting Fellow of the end of 2011 already exceeded Alcans Primary Metals Group University of Oxford.
Driving improving relations and a former director of with governments, especially AngloGold Ashanti Limited in South Africa where all of the and the Sara Lee Corporation.
Groups old order mineral and mining rights have been converted to new order rights as part of the early adoption of the uK Corporate governanCe Code and as announCed at the 2010 agm, E N Ren Mdori David Challen CBE anglo ameriCan Doctorate in Economics MA, MBA will propose the re-eleCtion of all of its direCtors on 53, was appointed to the Board on Has brought enhanced strength 67, joined the Board on 9 September an annual Basis.
1June 2005, becoming finance and flexibility to the Anglo American 2002 and was appointed as the director on 1 September 2005. balance sheet through: senior independent non-executive E Executive director RenMdori is a member of GMC continuing the process of director in April 2008.
He is chairman N Non-executive director and ExCo and chairman of the non-core disposals $3.3 billion of the Audit Committee and a Investment Committee.
He is a was announced in 2010 including member of the Nomination and non-executive director of Scottish the sale of zinc assets and Remuneration Committees.
David and Southern Energy plc, fide Beers undeveloped coal assets Challen is currently vice-chairman of and Anglo Platinum Limited.
completion of a new $3.5 billion Citigroup European Investment Bank loan facility maturing in 2015 and senior non-executive director of issue of $1.25 billion US dollar Smiths Group plc.
He is currently bonds deputy chairman of the UKs Takeover Panel.
Ren is a former finance director of The BOC Group plc.
Previously he was chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, where he spent most of his professional career.
Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 89 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 N N N N Sir CK Chow N Sir Philip Hampton Ray ORourke KBE N Nicky Oppenheimer DEng Hon, CEng, FREng, MA, ACA, MBA CEng FIEI FICE MA HonFHKIE, FIChemE 60, was appointed to the Board on 57, joined the Board on 9 November 64, joined the Board on 65, joined the Board on 18 March 15April 2008 and is a member of 2009.
He is chairman of the 11December 2009.
He is chairman of DeBeers.
the Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committee and a of the Audit and S&SD Committees.
Mr Oppenheimer has indicated Committees.
He is currently chief member of the Audit Committee.
that he will retire from the Board executive officer of the MTR SirPhilip is chairman of The Royal Ray ORourke founded the ORourke after the conclusion of the AGM Corporation in Hong Kong, a position Bank of Scotland.
Group in 1977, having begun his on 21 April 2011. he has held since December 2003, career at Kier and JMurphy & Sons.
and a non-executive director of From 2004-2010 Sir Philip was In 2001, the ORourke Group Nicky Oppenheimer joined the AIA Group Company Limited.
His acquired John Laing, to form Laing Group in 1968 and subsequently other previous appointments include ORourke, now Europes largest became an executive director and a Sir CK was formerly chief executive as finance director of Lloyds TSB privately owned construction deputy chairman of Anglo American of Brambles Industries, GKN PLC Group plc, BT Group plc, BG Group company, of which RayORourke Corporation of South Africa Limited.
and non-executive chairman of plc, British Gas plc, British Steel plc, is chairman and chief executive.
He became deputy chairman of Standard Chartered Bank an executive director of Lazards and DeBeers Consolidated in 1985 and Hong Kong Limited.
Prior to a non-executive director of RMC has been chairman of fide Beers joining GKN PLC he worked for Group plc and Belgacom SA.
The BOC Group plc for 20 years, joining its board in1993.
N N N Dr Mamphela Ramphele Jack Thompson Peter Woicke PhD, BComm, MB Ch B BSc, PhD MBA 63, joined the Board on 25 April 2006.
60, joined the Board on 16November 68, joined the Board on 1 January She is a member of the Nomination 2009 and is a member of the 2006, chairs the S&SD Committee and S&SD Committees.
Mamphela Remuneration and S&SD and is a member of the Nomination Ramphele is the executive chair of Committees.
He is currently a and Remuneration Committees.
Letsema Circle, a specialist non-executive director of Century He is currently chair of the trustees transformation advisory company and Aluminum Co. Molycorp Inc. and of the Ashesi University Foundation the chair of Gold Fields Limited and Tidewater Inc. and a member of the boards of the Technology & Innovation Agency Saudi Aramco, the Institute for of South Africa.
She is a non-executive Jack Thompson was previously Human Rights and Business director of Mediclinic and Business chairman and CEO of Homestake and the Chesapeake Bay Foundation.
Partners SA, a trustee of the Nelson Mining Co. vice chairman of Barrick Mandela and Rockefeller foundations, Gold Corp. and has served on the From 1999 to 2005 Peter Woicke and an adviser to the Veolia Institute.
boards of Centerra Gold Inc. Phelps was chief executive officer of the Dodge Corp. Rinker Group Ltd and International Finance Corporation Mamphela Ramphele was formerly Stillwater Mining.
He was also a managing co-chair of the Global Commission director of the World Bank.
Prior to on International Migration, a World joining the IFC, Peter Woicke held Bank managing director and numerous positions over nearly vice-chancellor at the University 30years with J. P. Morgan.
