46 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Leadership Who is on our Board?
What is our approach to governance?
Sir Stuart Rose leads the Board as Chairman and Marc Bolland Governance helps us do the right thing, the right way for our will lead the business as Chief Executive from the end of July shareholders and our customers, employees, suppliers, local following his induction.
Sir David Michels is Deputy Chairman, communities and the environment.
Our governance is focused Senior Independent Director and Chairman of our Nomination on how to get it right, not only in the boardroom but also across & Governance Committee.
The Chairmen of our Audit and the business.
Remuneration Committees are Jeremy Darroch and Steven We set out what we expect from our directors in the Governance Holliday.
Other Board members are given on pages 44-45.
Framework which we publish on our website.
This covers their individual accountabilities as well as terms of reference for the During the year we made the following changes: Board, Committees and business functions which support Marc Bolland joined the Board on 1 May 2010.
wealth of experience and made a great success of leading During the year we reviewed our approach to identifying, Morrisons since 2006. evaluating and managing our risks more about this is given John Dixon was appointed Executive Director on 9 September on page 54.
He joined M&S in 1986 and has worked in a number of senior roles, including Director of Home, Direct and Food.
What do we mean by doing the right thing?
We announced the resignation of Ian Dyson on 5 May 2010 To make sure M&S succeeds, we have to get things right across and have commenced our search for a new finance director.
the business with the right checks and balances.
It is not just what Ian will step down from the Board on 14 July and will leave the we do but how we do it, such as: Company on 31 August 2010.
The Board is supported by the Group Secretary and Head behaving properly to each other as colleagues, making sure we of Governance.
Amanda Mellor was appointed on 8 July 2009 feel valued, motivated and rewarded: having been our Head of Investor Relations since 2004. treating our customers, suppliers and local communities with respect: and In March 2010 the Board renewed the contracts of two nonrespecting the environment, involving our employees and executives for a further three years: Steven Holliday having served customers through Plan A. six years and Martha Lane Fox, three years.
At the AGM on 14 July 2010 shareholders will be asked to elect At the heart of it all is making sure the people who own M&S our to the Board our new directors, Marc Bolland and John Dixon.
shareholders get a good return on their investment.
If we do the Sir Stuart Rose is seeking annual re-election as the Board determined right thing, the right way then the business will be successful.
when he assumed the dual role.
Ian Dyson, Steven Holliday and Martha Lane Fox are retiring by rotation.
Ian Dyson will not seek re-election, and will step down from the Board.
Martha Lane Fox and Steven Holliday will seek re-election as directors.
HOW DID We COMPLy WItH tHe GOveRnAnCe CODe?
The governance rules which apply to UK companies listed on What has the Board done during the year?
the London Stock Exchange are found in the Combined Code We aim to connect governance with what matters for running a on Governance 2008 the Code.
Throughout the year ended successful business.
In Box A weve given examples of the Boards 3 April 2010 the Company complied with all Code provisions focus during 2009 10.
The Board agendas are linked to the with the exception that from 1 June 2008 the role of Chairman fundamentals of: a trusted brand, clear plan, strong leadership, and Chief Executive has been exercised by the same individual, motivated employees and delighted customers, together with the Sir Stuart Rose.
We recognise that this has been out of line with necessary checks and balances.
While we recognise the importance best practice.
We understand the concerns of shareholders but of compliance, we avoid spending unnecessary time on procedure believe that we have maintained robust governance while at the and operational detail.
We focus on the long-term plans for our same time benefiting from having Stuart at the helm.
business as well as the issues that matter on the ground and what On 1 May 2010 Marc Bolland joined us as Chief Executive.
our management and people are doing day-to-day.
On 31 July 2010 Stuart will step down as Executive Chairman, remaining as Chairman until we conclude our search for an independent Chairman to succeed him, no later than March 2011.
During the year Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman, has taken the lead on all governance matters.
This has included engaging shareholders on their views, chairing the Nomination & Governance Committee and conducting the review of Board performance.
At least half the Board comprises independent directors, all of whom have been appointed since 2004. r e c n G e o v p e S r To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 47 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 BOx A: WHAT THE BOARD HAS DONE DURING 2009 10 Checks and balances trusted brand Responded to the economic downturn Reinvigorated our brand values through through a clear programme of cost control, quality worth every penny and other new balance sheet and pension liability marketing campaigns management and dividend reduction Checked on our approach to helping longInitiated, through the Audit Committee, a term suppliers during the economic crisis major review of our risk governance and Debated the impact of introducing third party defined our risk tolerance branded products in Food Assessed the effectiveness of our financial Reviewed our code of ethics and held reporting controls, internal control and management accountable by widening the assurance processes scope of responsibility Reviewed our approach to health and safety: business continuity and data protection Checks and Trusted balances brand Delighted customers Clear plan Listened to customer feedback in Approved strategic plans for Clothing, the boardroom, at the AGM and on Food, Home and Beauty the sales floor Invested in buying and supply chain Discussed the Management Boards systems to meet our Project 2020 review of product and service ranges ambitions including e-commerce IT Delighted Doing the Clear and store performance systems and centralised warehousing customers plan right thing Received regular updates on Reviewed with management the key marketplace trends and changes in risks and the quality of our risk customer behaviour management systems Reviewed with the Retail Director Relaunched Plan A which aims how his team runs our stores to make us the most sustainable retailer in the world by 2015 Motivated Strong employees leadership Motivated employees Strong leadership Overseen the continuing implementation of Appointed Marc Bolland our 2020 strategy aimed at making sure we as our new Chief Executive have the right people and processes in place Initiated the search for an independent Discussed with management the introduction Chairman through the Nomination & of a new remuneration and performance Governance Committee framework for all employees Assessed the total reward framework for Reinvigorated our employee communication directors and senior management through through Business Involvement Groups, the Remuneration Committee Director breakfasts, in-store listening groups, Tracked the flagship leadership programme, Chairman and Top 100 briefings and our Lead to Succeed, to identify and develop annual Your Say survey people for succession Introduced major leadership development programme and a suite of management and employee training packages n & a n s c k e r a M 48 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Leadership continued How is our governance structured?
What does the Governance Group do?
Our structure is set out in the governance wheel and detailed The Governance Group helps colleagues to do the right thing, in Box B below.
At the core of this is the Group Board which is the right way, with governance that is meaningful, relevant and accountable to shareholders for the long-term performance of the focused on improving the business, both in the UK and overseas.
The non-executives carry out the detailed work on the Its activities include: governance committees with a particular focus on governance and implementing practical and cost-effective responses to legislation succession, controls and risk, and remuneration.
and regulation: There have been a few changes since last year.
We strengthened giving guidance to colleagues on our policies and practices our operational governance as part of our 2020 Change Programme.
including our code of ethics: The Executive Committee has been reconstituted as the Management minimising trading disruption and legislative consequences: Board to clarify its accountability for strategic initiatives, risk management, leveraging business initiatives and sharing best practice: business processes, systems and controls.
The Capital Approval negotiating contractual terms and protecting our brands Committee has been reconstituted as the Group Investment and innovation: Committee giving greater visibility, control and consistency to the providing assurance on internal controls and visibility of key risks: approval process across the Group.
The Information Security minimising insurance premiums, claims and fines: Committee proposals, including data protection, have been adopted protecting and promoting our heritage: and as a result, day-to-day oversight of this is now managed by the enabling the Company to meet its pension liabilities: Governance Group, with regular updates to the Board.
assisting employee and shareholder engagement: and supporting directors in their Board and Committee roles.
BOx B: HOW OUR GOVERNANCE IS STRUCTURED Our governance structure is best illustrated by our Governance Wheel set out on page 45. the Committees and functions are listed below along with an overview of their activities and the key person responsible.
Corporate Governance Operational Governance Group Board Sir Stuart Rose relies on management to run the Management Board Sir Stuart Rose is accountable for executing our strategy, running the business and making sure we business and on our people to give customers great service every time they shop with us.
The Board therefore monitors what are doing the right thing day-to-day.
It keeps the Board informed on the business and how we work with our different management are doing, holding them accountable for performance against our targets and standards and probing their stakeholders.
Its work is supported by a number of operational committees and functions: thinking to make sure we are on the right track.
The Board works closely with management in thinking through our direction and Group Investment Committee Sir Stuart Rose allocates capital long-term plans, the opportunities, the risks and making sure and controls all investments with a risk of material impact on were developing the right management team for the future.
financial results, brand or strategy: The non-executives provide independent challenge and review, bringing wide experience, specific expertise and a fresh, Customer Insight Unit Steve Bond influences decision-making by tracking marketplace trends and customer views: objective perspective.
As members of the Board Committees, they play a crucial role in undertaking detailed governance work How we do business Committee Richard Gillies drives our with a particular focus on shareholders: social, environmental and ethical commitments Plan A in line with nomination & Governance Committee Sir David Michels stakeholder expectations, ensures they are integrated into recommends Board appointments, reviews business succession everyday activities and supports our aim to be the worlds most plans and makes sure our governance is fit for purpose: sustainable retailer: Audit Committee Jeremy Darroch monitors the integrity of the Business Involvement Groups Malcolm Heaven are the elected representatives through which the business informs, financial statements and reviews effectiveness of internal controls, risk management and audit: involves and consults employees so their views can be taken into account to influence business change and decision-making: Remuneration Committee Steven Holliday recommends remuneration strategy and framework to recruit, retain and Fire, Health and Safety Committee Steve Rowe promotes the reward senior executives for their individual performance.
safety and wellbeing of our employees, customers and visitors and minimises the risk of financial penalties: Their committee activity reports are given on pages 51-52. Business Continuity Committee Steve Rowe equips the Governance Group Amanda Mellor helps colleagues to do the business to continue to trade in the event of a crisis or disaster at right thing, the right way, with governance that is meaningful, any M&S location at any time.
relevant and focused on improving the business, both in the UK and overseas.
It comprises legal, audit and risk, insurance, archive, pensions, BIG employee representatives and secretariat.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 49 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance report Governance Effectiveness Financial statements p78 How do we make sure our Board is effective?
Individual performance The Chairman reviewed the performance of the executive directors Board performance individually against business and individual objectives.
Remuneration Last year we said that to achieve good governance, we need is directly linked to these reviews and is determined by the a Board that demonstrates independence, is well-informed and Remuneration Committee.
We put particular effort into this years Board Our Governance Framework gives particular emphasis to the performance review, by tracking progress against these requirements, governance accountabilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and drilling down into specific areas that we feel matter, and looking non-executive directors.
The Deputy Chairman has reviewed the at how we can drive better governance through to the business.
performance of the Chairman against these accountabilities and We are confident that putting effort into getting the self-assessment business objectives and confirms that he has continued to right has resulted in a more rigorous review as we set out in Box C. demonstrate strong leadership of the Group during a time of We took a more robust approach to our self-assessment by considerable economic uncertainty.
engaging the governance specialists, Independent Audit.
They Following discussions the Chairman held with individual provided external facilitation by challenging us on the questions we directors, the Board confirms that each non-executive director is asked ourselves and helping us analyse the results.
independent in character and judgement: commits sufficient time and energy to the role, and continues to make a valuable Committee performance contribution to the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination & Governance, Audit and Remuneration Committees have each conducted reviews of their own performance as described for the Board.
More information is given on pages 51-52.
BOx C: HOW WE REVIEWED OUR EFFECTIVENESS Last year we set an action plan We also asked ourselves about our commitment to being to address being an independent, responsible.
We felt we gave significant time to discussions informed and responsible Board.
around our brand, Plan A, code of ethics and heritage.
The Board Our performance review focused has a clear view of its accountabilities to shareholders and wider on these three key areas.
The Boards challenge is to make sure this is put into practice and is built into the way we work.
We dont get it right 100% of the time and we rely on the Management Board to make sure it happens on a day-to-day basis.
This coming year we want to look closely at how we can extend the impact of Sir David Michels Deputy Chairman governance on the wider business and keep under review what guides our behaviours see Box D. Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman, talks about the 2009 10 Board performance review We also reviewed our performance on risk and our people.
This year we reviewed how we ensure independent challenge We asked questions around making sure things go to plan.
around strategy, succession, leadership, risk and reward.
We felt We covered risk management, the organisational response to risk that we had responded to external concerns regarding the and control, information on risks and assurances on controls.
Chairman CEO role and increased the level of dialogue with our Overall we were satisfied that oversight on risk issues has investors.
At least half the Board comprises independent directors improved on last year, is robust and that we tackle risk effectively: who bring experience from other retail and consumer-facing although we want to strengthen this further.
sectors, finance, property, international and online businesses.
We also looked at doing the right thing by our people.
Accountability is strengthened by ensuring there is sufficient time This year we gave considerable emphasis to leadership for debate in the boardroom.
The committees carry out detailed development through the Lead to Succeed programme, which independent oversight on behalf of the Board to ensure we have the was attended by our directors and the top management team.
right processes in place for succession, audit and remuneration.
The The Management Board reviewed feedback from Lead to Board receives independent analysis on stakeholder feedback from Succeed participants: the annual employee Your Say survey our Customer Insight Unit: Director of Plan A, CSR and Sustainable which gives a good indicator to morale and management style Business: and an annual investor audit produced by Makinson in the business: and working forums conducted as part of our Cowell.
This combination of experience, objective opinions, detailed Project 2020 change programme.
This included views on review and debate has enabled strong, independent challenge.
responsiveness to stores and customers: engaging and motivating We checked how we are kept informed and believe that we teams: how business performance is managed: and how the get enough detail and the right amount of non-financial information organisation communicates.
As a result, the rollout of our Lead including employee and customer feedback.
The non-executives to Succeed programme for our top 100 people has been get direct access to the management team and sit on Board accelerated: performance management processes have been committees so they have been kept informed on managements strengthened further: and a leadership index introduced in our response to the current economic climate.
The Group Secretary employee survey to help line managers benchmark and improve makes sure that timely information is given to all directors.
Furthermore, management performance is also keeps them informed on governance, regulation, key legal now linked to individual bonus.
issues and legislative change through a written report at each Board meeting.
Our online Board portal provides easy access to information for directors to carry out their duties and for ongoing development.
50 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Effectiveness continued Action Plan 2010 11 Who is on our Committees?
Overall we felt we had addressed all the points on our 2009 10 Our non-executive directors play an important governance role in action plan.
The Board has strengthened its structures and the detailed work they carry out on our Committees on behalf of approach and is working well.
But there is always scope for doing the Board.
On 9 September 2009 we made a number of changes.
better so this year we have set ourselves actions to support our Steven Holliday, who has been a member of the Remuneration commitment to driving further improvement.
Committee since his appointment to the Board in July 2004, In 2010 11, in addition to its other responsibilities, the Board will stepped up to chair that Committee and Jan du Plessis was focus on: appointed a member.
Louise Patten was also appointed a member of the Audit Committee.
The Group Secretary supports the developing leaders within the business: Committee Chairmen in making sure members are equipped for ensuring the reward systems are appropriate and stretching: robust debate and informed decision-making and that they allocate monitoring the level of risk and the governance to support risk their time to the right things.
management: and The Board has satisfied itself that at least one member of the making the most of our heritage and values.
Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience and We will report on our progress again next year.
is confident that the collective experience of its members enables it to be effective.
It also has access to the financial expertise of the Group, the external and internal auditors and can seek further professional advice at the Companys expense, if required.
BOx D: WHAT GUIDES OUR BEHAVIOURS nomination & Governance Committee Sir David Michels, Chairman the Board is the guardian of the M&S brand, its reputation Sir Stuart Rose and stakeholder relationships.
If we do the right thing, the Marc Bolland right way these will be protected.
Jeremy Darroch Martha Lane Fox The Board monitors this and seeks to set the right tone from the Steven Holliday top.
More specifically, it regularly discusses and reviews: Louise Patten brand values quality, value, service, innovation and trust: Jan du Plessis Plan A and sustainability our ambitious environmental, Audit Committee ethical and social commitments: and Jeremy Darroch, Chairman Sir David Michels code of ethics a guide to the values, behaviours and Martha Lane Fox ways of working we uphold.
Steven Holliday In 2009 10 we reinvigorated our performance management.
Louise Patten Line managers are now more accountable for creating the right Jan du Plessis conditions for people to perform at their best.
This includes giving Remuneration Committee regular feedback, not only against set objectives but also against Steven Holliday, Chairman the eight business competencies which describe the behaviours Martha Lane Fox required at M&S.
Sir David Michels Our heritage is important and affects what people expect Louise Patten from us.
We must build on our history and values to keep them Jan du Plessis relevant to doing business today so that our past can inform our Appointed 1May 2010. future.
Last year we celebrated our 125th anniversary with our Appointed on 9 September 2009. customers and employees.
We know we are only as strong as the communities in which we trade so we also challenged employees to raise 1.25m for local charities in just 125 days.
Across the What have the Committees done during the year?
country, employees rose to the challenge, more than doubling In 2009 10 the Board had to make some high profile decisions this target to raise 2.8m benefitting over 500 local charities.
during a period of continuing economic uncertainty which had We are proud to have built up one of the best corporate an understandable impact on consumer and investor confidence.
archives in the UK which we will be moving to the University of As a result our non-executives committed significant time in addition Leeds in 2011.
Our archive comprises over 60,000 items to their scheduled meetings set out on page 53.
Our Chairmen including clothing, artefacts and photographs.
It illustrates our have set out overleaf the key areas of focus of Committees last year, past but also challenges us to make sure we continue to do the as illustrated in Box e. right thing for the continued success of M&S.
Quite rightly, people have very high expectations of Marks & Spencer our products, our services and our people.
If ever Im in any doubt about the right thing to do, I know I can look to our enduring brand values of quality, value, service, innovation and above all, trust.
Lesley Brownett, Deputy Secretary To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 51 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 nomination & Governance Committee We review the effectiveness of internal audit which focuses its work on business priorities identified by the Group Risk Profile.
We track their key findings and the responsiveness of management.
To do this we made more time to meet with senior management to understand how they run their businesses, mitigate their risks and keep it all under control.
The independence of internal audit is also important.
Paul Shearer was appointed Head of Internal Audit and Risk in July 2009.
He reports to the Group Secretary and has direct Sir David Michels Committee Chairman access to me to support him in his role.
As a final safeguard, at the end of each meeting the Committee holds separate meetings with the external and internal auditors, We put a great deal of time and effort into finding the right CEO: we without management present, to discuss their respective areas spent considerable time with our external consultants, defining our and any issues arising from their audits.
needs and reviewing prospective candidates.
We managed a thorough, orderly search and interviewed rigorously.
I am confident Remuneration Committee that as a result weve been successful in securing a strong CEO in Marc Bolland.
We also recommended the appointment of John Dixon as an executive director, made changes to our Committee membership and appointed a new Group Secretary.
We have given increased focus to leadership development through the Lead to Succeed programme and strengthened our performance management processes.
We want to ensure we have a high performing workforce to get us through the current tough trading conditions.
We want to be better at identifing tomorrows Steven Holliday Committee Chairman leaders.
Those demonstrating high potential qualities are included in the business succession plan.
We have also reviewed induction to Our long-term philosophy is to attract and retain leaders who are help our new joiners get off to the best start.
For our part, we have focused and encouraged to deliver business priorities within a taken a rigorous approach to Board and committee performance framework that is aligned with the interests of the Companys reviews.
Prior to his appointment as an executive director, John shareholders.
Dixon spent time with one of our non-executive directors to prepare Our remuneration strategy continues to ensure that a significant him for his wider accountabilities as a Board member.
percentage of the package remains at risk.
This approach has Reflecting Stuarts earlier comments, we reviewed how we can informed the Committees considerations relating to Marc Bollands make our governance more meaningful to our people in the remuneration on his appointment as the new Chief Executive, business so that we can all make sure we are doing the right thing, to succeed Sir Stuart Rose.
the right way at Marks & Spencer.
The Committee agreed a salary and benefits package for Marc which is consistent with the Companys current remuneration Audit Committee framework for executive directors.
The salary is in line with existing M&S remuneration policies and the external market, with the largest part of the package at risk, as awards will only be received in the event that the Annual Bonus Scheme pays out and if share grants, made under the Companys Performance Share Plan, hit challenging targets throughout the next two to three years.
The Committee considers that payout at maximum levels under these schemes will be as a result of significant outperformance by the business, with Jeremy Darroch Committee Chairman substantial levels of return for investors.
The Committee put in place a recruitment package which fairly compensated Marc for his awards that were forfeited with his previous employer and which the With the continuing changes in our business and the very challenging Committee was fully satisfied would meet their performance targets economic climate, a key focus this year has been the Groups and pay out had Marc remained in their employ.
approach to risk, keeping a close eye on our financial performance The Committee also agreed the remuneration for Stuarts and strength.
To enable the Board to make more informed decisions transition to Chairman at the end of July 2010. on strategy and business priorities, we made our approach to risk In 2009 10, the Company clearly outperformed the targets set both more dynamic and insightful, whilst keeping it simple and practical.
in the internal operating plan and those expected by the City.
This The Board confirmed that it would increase the time it spent on risk level of performance resulted in a bonus being paid for the first time appetite whilst continuing to rely on the Audit Committee for risk in three years across the whole organisation.
Given the economic oversight: therefore a separate risk committee is not required.
forecasts that prevailed at the start of this financial year, these The effectiveness of our external auditors is key to giving us payments reflect significant performance both at an individual and confidence in the Groups approach to controls and risk and to enable Company level.
us to recommend the reappointment of  For 2010 11, the targets for the Companys long-term incentive LLP.
We judge them on the quality of their audit findings, plan have been amended upward to ensure that they remain managements response and stakeholder feedback.
We check on challenging and at least as demanding as the targets set in previous their independence by making sure they are sufficiently challenging years.
We also set the audit and non-audit fees see The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined page 88 and make sure that our auditor engagement policy is by the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the executive directors.
adhered to when commissioning non-audit work.
Audit partner Further information the Remuneration Committees activities are rotation is important to retain the objectivity of the process Stuart given in the Remuneration report on pages 58-71.
Watson was appointed lead audit engagement partner in 2008 09.
52 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Effectiveness continued BOx e: WHAT THE COMMITTEES HAVE DONE DURING 2009 10 nomination & Governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Reviewed the Groups approach to risk Agreed remuneration arrangements for Agreed process and timetable for new to make it more dynamic and insightful, new Chief Executive and outgoing CEO, shortlisted candidates and whilst keeping it simple and practical: Chairman: recommended Marc Bolland to the Met separately with the directors of Reviewed total reward framework Board: GM, Food, Retail and Direct and IT and for directors and senior managers, Reviewed Committee Chairmen and Logistics to review risks and mitigating including long-term and short-term membership: actions: incentives and performance measures: Recommended John Dixons Received reports from external and Challenged and revised the targets for appointment as Executive Director and internal audit on the major findings June 2010 Performance Share Plan: Amanda Mellors appointment as on their work and progress of and Group Secretary: and management follow up: and Engaged with investors regarding the Reviewed the impact of governance Received assurance on going concern, principles of senior remuneration.
from the boardroom to the business.
counterparty risks, pension valuation, property values, code of ethics and Plan A.
How have the Committees rated their performance?
In February 2010 Committee members completed a questionnaire electronically to rate their performance.
An unattributed executive summary was then distributed to all members for discussion at their respective meetings and key actions agreed: Committee Review of 2009 10 confirmed that Key actions for 2010 11 nomination & the appointment process for our new CEO was support Stuart and Marc through the transition to separate Governance robust and delivered an excellent candidate: Chairman and Chief Executive roles by end July 2010: we are on track to appoint an independent conclude search for new Chairman and finance director Chairman by March 2011: and review skills mix of the wider Board and committees during this period of economic uncertainty, following these appointments Lead to Succeed is having a positive impact keep governance connected with the business, spending on our leadership.
time with leadership and our people.
Audit the Committees challenge on risk has improved keep the risks and controls of our new business the process and given leadership a more processes and IT systems under review: and focused approach: and work with the Board in reviewing any changes management presentations have increased the to our risk appetite and tolerance.
Committees understanding of the key business issues.
Remuneration our approach to remuneration philosophies has review the senior remuneration strategy in line with any been rigorously debated during a time of economic changes to business priorities following the appointment uncertainty and intense media scrutiny: and of our new Chief Executive: and the Committee has been kept informed of wide-ranging review impact of remuneration on culture and behaviour, at investor opinion.
all levels in the business.
com annualreport2010 53 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 PenSIOn SCHeMe GOveRnAnCe The Group operates a defined benefit DB scheme for all The Trustee Board has a business plan and at the start of each year employees with an appointment date prior to 1 April 2002 and a the Trustee reviews the plan and objectives from the previous year defined contribution DC scheme open to those joining the and agrees its objectives and associated budget for the current Company on or after 1 April 2002.
More information is given in year.
There is a communications strategy and plan, a risk register note 11 on pages 92 to 94. and action plan, a conflicts of interest policy and a register and The Board of the Pension Trust Trustee Board manages code of ethics, all of which are reviewed at least annually.
There is the assets of the pension scheme which are held under trust also an annual board effectiveness review and each Trustee has an separately from those of the Group.
The Trustee Board comprises individual training plan which is based on the Pension Regulators Tony Watson as independent Chairman and Law Debenture Trustee Knowledge and Understanding requirements.
Trust as independent Trustee, together with five company All advisers and suppliers are appointed through a rigorous representatives and five member representatives Member tender process.
They are monitored via quarterly reports and Nominated Trustees MNTs.
There are four main committees: periodic meetings.
There is a rolling programme of adviser reviews DB, DC, Investment and Actuarial Valuation.
MNTs are appointed with an informal review annually and a formal review every three to through a selection process.
The most recent appointment, in August 2008, was Ernst & Young as Company covenant monitoring adviser.
Board and Committee attendance The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Group Board and its principal committees during 2009 10 and individual attendance by Board and committee members at those meetings.
Nomination & Board Meetings Governance Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Name of director A B A B A B A B Chairman 1 Sir Stuart Rose 9 9 10 9 Deputy Chairman 2 C Sir David Michels 9 9 10 10 5 3 10 8 Chief executive Marc Bolland appointed 1 May 2010 executive directors 3 Kate Bostock 9 8 John Dixon appointed 9 September 2009 6 6 Ian Dyson 9 9 Steven Sharp 9 9 non-executive directors 4 C Jeremy Darroch 9 8 10 8 5 5 5 Martha Lane Fox 9 9 10 9 5 5 10 9 6 C Steven Holliday 9 8 10 10 5 5 10 10 7 Louise Patten 9 9 10 9 3 3 10 10 8 Jan du Plessis 9 9 10 10 5 4 6 6 A Maximum number of meetings the director could have attended.
B Number of meetings the director actually attended.
C Committee Chairman 1 Sir Stuart Rose did not attend the Nomination & Governance Committee meeting on 26 February 2010 as it concerned the succession of Chairman.
2 Sir David Michels was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting on 14 January 2010 due to other M&S Commitments and on 17 March 2010 due to personal commitments.
He was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting on 18 November 2009 and 24 February 2010 due to overseas business commitments.
3 Kate Bostock was unable to attend the Board Meeting on 9 December 2009 through illness.
4 Jeremy Darroch was unable to attend the Board Meeting on 6 May 2009 and the Nomination & Governance Committee meetings on 6 May and 16 November 2009 due to overseas business commitments with BskyB.
5 Martha Lane Fox was unable to attend the Remuneration Committee meeting on 22 May 2009 and the Nomination & Governance Committee on 2 September 2009 due to other business commitments.
6 Steven Holliday was unable to attend the Board Meeting on 3 November 2009 due to overseas business commitments with National Grid.
7 Louise Patten was unable to attend the Nomination & Governance Committee meeting on 29 September 2009 due to other business commitments.
8 Jan du Plessis was unable to attend the Audit Committee meeting on 12 May 2009 due to business commitments with Rio Tinto.
All reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments to the Chairman or Committee Chairman as appropriate.
54 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Accountability How do we manage our risks and controls?
How does the Board get a clearer picture of the risks?
Our aim is to build a sustainable business through consistent, profitable Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Profile the tool growth and to make sure that our customers and wider stakeholders that drives business improvement and internal audit activity.
This is can always trust us to do the right thing.
We recognise that creating supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and shareholder value is the reward for taking acceptable risks.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Our principal risks The Board has overall accountability for running the business and uncertainties are set out on pages 56-57. effectively making sure risks are managed and its all under The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the risk process control.
Internal controls and risk management are designed to limit and this year provided challenge in a number of areas.
As a result we the chance of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
Independent have improved the risk process to make it more dynamic and assurance is provided by the external auditors and internal audit, insightful, whilst keeping it simple and practical.
Key changes include: who present their findings regularly to the Audit Committee.
greater Management Board engagement so that risks are clearly We have adopted an integrated approach to our risk understood and owned by executives: management, independent assurance and internal controls to clearer categorisation of risk likelihood and impact criteria to draw ensure greater linkage across our review and assessment of risk.
out the most critical risks: more detailed understanding of the potential causes and How does the Board know its all under control?
consequences for the top risks in each business area and the We are an extensive business with a wide range of objectives impact of any existing mitigation and assurance activity: and and risks.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that everything more insightful risk reporting to highlight consistent themes, goes according to plan and that reporting lines and individual enable the Board to make informed decisions on strategy and accountabilities are clearly understood.
We also have operating provide the Audit Committee with assurance over the adequacy policies and procedures covering everything from financial planning and effectiveness of risk management.
and reporting, capital expenditure, project governance and Further discussion on financial risk management is given on pages information security to business continuity, employee performance 102 to 105. management and how we do business.
Detailed policies and procedures are in place to ensure the accuracy and reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial ASSURAnCe statements.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the This year the Board has reviewed and agreed changes to effectiveness of the Groups: some key polices and procedures including: systems of internal control, primarily through approving the reconstitution of the Management Board to clarify its internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the accountabilities for strategic initiatives, risk management, business annual and half year financial statements and a review processes, systems and controls: of the nature, scope and reports of external audit: establishment of the Group Investment Committee through which management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment all investment and commitment between 1m-15m is now activity and an internal audit report on the process: reviewed, giving greater visibility, control and consistency to the action taken or to be taken to manage critical risks or to approval process across the Group: remedy any control failings or weaknesses identified.
acceleration of Lead to Succeed, our leadership development programme that started last year, to drive the business forward The Audit Committee has completed its review of the through collaborative working, sharper focus on the customer and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during clearer accountabilities: and the year, which are in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance ongoing tight control of our cash flow, working capital, cost 2005.
It confirms the necessary action plans to remedy identified management and capital expenditure.
We have also reviewed our weaknesses in internal control are in place and have been financial headroom and debt profile resulting in a bond throughout the year.
buy-back and issue of new debt.
com annualreport2010 55 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance report Governance Communication Financial statements p78 Sir David Michels, Deputy Chairman What happens at our AGM?
During 2009 10 it has been particularly important to keep in touch Our AGM is one of the most well-attended meetings in the FTSE 100, with our principal investors and we have aimed to have better regularly attracting over 1,500 people, with many more watching via ongoing dialogue with them.
Timely and productive discussions our webcast.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are encouraged require greater effort on both sides, particularly when dealing with to vote electronically in advance of the meeting at sharevote.
co. uk high profile matters and media attention.
or use the proxy card mailed to them.
In 2009 91% of the proxy Both Steven Holliday, Remuneration Committee Chairman, votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
and I have met with investors and shareholder representative Before the meeting an exhibition is hosted by our senior retail bodies, on remuneration and succession, accompanied by the and business managers.
The meeting begins with a business Group Secretary, and have kept the Board informed.
We have presentation, followed by the Chairman, and other Board members, listened to ensure we understand their concerns.
They hold a answering questions raised by shareholders.
Shareholders are then wide range of views and we do not always agree it would not invited to vote on the resolutions by electronic poll.
This gives a be possible given the diversity of opinion among investor groups.
more democratic result as all shares represented on the day and However, to do the right thing for M&S the Board needs to be fully those lodged before the meeting are included.
The indicative result informed of their views.
We will continue to keep the channels of is screened at the meeting with the final results announced via the communication open.
All executive directors attend our full and half year results The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions being proposed presentations.
Our wider leadership team also met a large number at the AGM on 14 July 2010.
Last year all resolutions were passed, of investors at our Investor Day on 13 October 2009.
This focused with votes ranging from 87.12% to 99.9%, with the exception of on our project 2020 change programme and the significant the resolution put by the Local Authority Pension Fund Forum.
investment we are making in supply chain and IT systems to meet This proposed bringing forward the appointment of an independent our multi-channel ambitions.
This resolution was defeated with 62.3% Independent feedback on investor relations is provided to support for the Boards approach to succession, being the the Board through an annual presentation by Makinson Cowell.
appointment of a Chief Executive first, followed by an independent This contains major investor views on Company management and Chairman by May 2011. performance, based on the results of an extensive survey.
This Information regarding our share capital is detailed on page 72 keeps our investor relations programme on track and during the of the directors report.
year, our IR team met with representatives from over 275 investment institutions to keep them updated on business performance.
It was a really informative day, meeting shareholders and colleagues Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary from stores and head office.
It was good to see the Board in action, presenting our results, future strategy and answering shareholder We welcome the proposed stewardship code for institutional questions.
Not to mention our 125th anniversary celebrations for investors, which is being developed alongside the new UK which our store raised 23,000.
Following the requisitioned resolution at our AGM in July 2009 weve had more contact with a wider group Silvana Carlberg shareholder and employee at Shoreham store of investors and shareholder representative bodies.
This active dialogue has enabled us to feedback a wide range of views to the CORPORAte WeBSIte Board and develop a better understanding of mutual objectives.
This ongoing dialogue will continue to be a key focus going forward.
There is a wealth of information online, including: We have a special relationship with our private shareholders.
com thecompany They own a high percentage of our shares c30%, many of them our Governance Framework with individual accountabilities as are long-term investors and 30,000 of them are employees.
well as Board and committee terms of reference: We welcome shareholder feedback and mail a topics card with annual reports and investor presentations: the AGM Notice of Meeting.
Over 8,000 replied last year, the vast latest M&S news and press releases: majority of comments related to our products and stores.
Throughout a detailed account of how we have complied with the the year shareholders also email the Chairman with their comments, Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008: write to us or call our telephone helplines.
our Auditor Engagement Policy for the external auditors: Many of our shareholders are loyal customers.
We distribute our code of ethics: and shareholder spend & save vouchers with our January dividend our Articles of Association.
and these continue to be very popular.
Along with our registered shareholders, we distribute over 100,000 vouchers to indirect investors through the wide participation of nominee companies.
We do our best to look after private shareholder interests.
I just wanted to applaud you on a job well done with the annual We encourage them to have their dividends paid into their bank report its fun, inviting, interesting with lots of colour.
I am an accounts and to keep us informed of their details.
However, some accountant and sometimes find these documents incredibly boring.
fail to do so and as a result, we have reviewed our approach to During the course of any week I rarely go without popping into M&S untraced shareholders further details are contained in Appendix 1 to see whats new.
Anne Chin private shareholder 56 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Governance report Principal risks and uncertainties Our approach to risk management Example: Risk prole reporting Seeking opportunity and managing risk is at the heart of what we G do and is an integral part of day-to-day management.
Gross risk assessed G G We capture and report risk in a consistent manner across each before mitigation business area enabling Internal Audit and Risk to build a bottom G up and top down picture of the key risks facing the Group in N consolidated form of the Group Risk Profile GRP.
N Net risk assessed The example given opposite illustrates how we report risk.
G G after mitigation It includes both Gross and Net risk positions with arrows to show how management has reduced risks through appropriate controls and mitigating activity.
This prioritises the Internal Audit plan to make sure we test the effectiveness of the most important controls.
N N N The Board reviews the GRP every six months and the Management Board reviews progress quarterly against agreed actions to keep a close watch on how we are managing our risks.
The executives give regular reports to the Group Board, Management Board and Audit Committee which give them a more N focused approach to identifying and managing their key risks.
Minor ModerateMajor Critical IMPACT Our principal risks Our risk process is designed to identify, evaluate and manage key business risks.
The table below gives examples of what we do to manage these risks.
The Board considers these to be the most significant risks to achieving our business goals.
The risks listed do not comprise all those associated with Marks & Spencer and are not set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks not presently known to management, or currently deemed to be less material, may also have an adverse effect on the business.
Risk and Impact Mitigating activities Strategy and finance Our current priorities place a greater emphasis on managing our business through the downturn, underpinning our strong financial position and continuing to invest for the long term, to be well placed when the market improves.
economic outlook Poor outlook for Regular review of pricing, promotion and marketing strategies for appropriateness and their the UK and global economy impacts ability to adapt to a changing consumer market our ability to deliver our market share Ongoing close working with suppliers to help them take cost out of their supply base and margin ambitions Adapting product ranges to meet changing customer needs Competition Increasing competitor Comparative shops and feedback with core customer panels activity impacts our ability to increase Targeted marketing strategy in place to respond to new competitors in key locations or maintain UK market share across Maintenance of our opening price point values GM, Food and or online Financial position Deterioration in Regular forecasting of debt capacity, financial covenants and other rating metrics within our financial position limits our current rating bands flexibility and ability to grow the Key management and external advisers fully engaged in formulating strategy for agreeing business the pension deficit and funding plan Ongoing communication with rating agencies and brokers Brand and reputation We are proud of our brand values of Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust which differentiate our products and services.
We have also set ourselves the goal through Plan A to be the most sustainable major retailer in the world by 2015.
Brand reputation Failure to meet Brand values reinvigorated through quality worth every penny customer and or external stakeholder Customer Insight Unit obtains monthly customer feedback and regularly presents findings expectations impacts the M&S brand to the Group Board, Management Board and the business to drive improvement Code of ethics communicated to the Group and third parties to make sure business is carried out in line with our policies and procedures Clear communications plan in place to respond to a major crisis, which is tested annually Plan A Failure to meet our Plan A team in place supported by a dedicated programme manager commitments reduces stakeholder Clear accountabilities set at director level to ensure delivery against our Plan A commitments trust and confidence Regular reporting to the How we do business Committee and the Group Board with independent assurance from Ernst & Young LIKELIHOOD Unlikely Possible Likely Almost certain To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 57 Operating & Financial review p16 Governance Financial statements p78 Risk and Impact Mitigating activities People and change As we increase the pace of change in the business and continue to invest for the future, it is important to keep strengthening our people and processes at every level.
People Failure to attract, develop Formalised objective setting in place for all employees, including behaviours aligned to the and retain key employees head office M&S brand values and stores limits our ability to deliver Lead to Succeed leadership programme underway to develop and fast track current and our plans potential leaders Learning and development opportunities available and promoted across all business areas Bonus scheme in place for all employees based on business and individual objectives Change projects Failure to Governance structures and delivery teams in place with robust project management discipline effectively deliver our major change across all major change programmes projects and minimise disruption to 2020 Cross Workstream Dependency Management Forum in place to oversee major day-to-day operations impacts our change projects business New Group Investment Committee and expenditure policy established for all investment and commitment between 1m-15m Regular updates to the Group Board on progress against key project milestones Day-to-day operation We are the UKs leading retailer of quality clothing, food and home products, with more than 21 million UK customers and over 2,000 suppliers.
Stock management Ineffective Significant investment in IT and aligned business processes across the Group to improve stock management impacts forecasting, availability and stock control availability in stores and online New and improved commercial tools to enable business areas to manage stock better GM, Food and International It security Major breach in IT Business crisis management team and processes in place to deal with significant IT security security results in severe service incidents that impact our ability to trade disruption or disclosure of personal Clear policies and agreements in place where data is shared or processed by third parties customer information Extensive controls in place in accordance with international standards for establishing and maintaining information security management Suppliers third parties Failure of Financial monitoring of all suppliers and flexible payment terms for major suppliers during a key supplier or third party provider difficult economic conditions impacts the service provided to our Dialogue with suppliers and third party providers to identify any issues early on and ensure customers good working relationships Review of our supply base to reduce reliance on key suppliers where appropriate Supply chain Major disruption to the Central IT and back up available to provide support in the event of a system failure at a key site supply chain impacts the delivery of Business continuity and disaster recovery plans in place and tested at least annually the Groups objectives Selling channels We have ambitious plans for our M&S Direct and International businesses as part of our commitment to broadening our multi-channel offer.
M&S Direct Failure to keep pace Clear growth strategy for Direct with customer expectations in a fastOngoing focus on performance of website platform, order fulfilment and customer service developing sector inhibits our ability Continual review against the market and our competitors to compete and grow our Direct business International Failure to leverage our New leadership, operating structure and people in place to support the International business systems and processes limits growth Regular executive business reviews and updates to the Group Board to ensure progress of our International business through against key milestones and identification of emerging business opportunities franchises, partnerships and whollyPlans underway to improve systems and processes supporting our International business owned businesses
