goverNaNCe CorPorate goverNaNCe rePort Marstons PLC is subject to The Combined Code on Corporate the Directors Governance 2008 the Code.
It reports here how it has applied The Board comprises five Executive Directors, five independent the main principles throughout the accounting period and Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Code calls explains any variations.
The Company has complied fully with the for Non-executive Directors to be determined by the Board provisions of Section 1 of the Code, with one exception.
Provision to be independent in character and judgement and free from A.
3.2 recommends that at least half of the Board, excluding the relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear Chairman, should comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
to affect, the Directors judgement.
On 1 September 2010 the Company met this recommendation when the Board appointed Robin Rowland.
Further details of his The Chairman was not independent on appointment, as required appointment are given under the Nomination Committee heading.
by the Code, having previously served as an Executive Director.
The Board considers all its Non-executive Directors to be the Board independent within the meaning of the Code.
Miles Emley has The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for more than nine years service as a Non-executive Director of the the long-term success of the Company.
Its role is to provide Company, which is regarded as relevant under the Code when entrepreneurial leadership while aiming to assess and manage assessing a Directors independence.
The Board remains of the risk through a framework of prudent and effective controls.
It has opinion that he is independent in character and judgement and as a schedule of matters reserved for its approval, directly or on the such is regarded by the Board as an independent Director.
recommendation of its committees, which include: The Board believes that its current membership has the right Strategy, management and budget matters: balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge Capital structure, dividend policy and financial controls: of the Company to discharge its duties and responsibilities.
It Public and shareholder announcements: considers the balance of Executive and Non-executive Directors as Internal controls and the identification, monitoring and appropriate, as it prevents any one group from dominating decisionmanagement of risk: making and is neither too large to be unwieldy, nor too small to run Major capital expenditure, asset acquisitions and disposals: the risk of undue disruption if any member cannot attend.
Board and committee membership and corporate governance arrangements: In line with the Code, the Non-executive Directors met during the Remuneration of Directors and senior management: and year without the Executive Directors.
Policies, including ethics, health and safety, environmental, charitable and corporate social responsibility.
The Articles of the Company require all Directors to be elected at the Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment Other responsibilities are given to committees of the Board by by the Board and to be re-elected at least once every three years.
Details are given under the sections Owing to the tenure of Miles Emley, his appointment is subject relating to these committees.
The Company Secretary advises to annual re-election.
In recognition of the new UK Corporate the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All Governance Code the New Code which was introduced in June Directors have access to her advice and services.
2010, although not applicable until the 2010 11 financial year, the entire Board will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All Board and committee members are supplied with briefings on Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms of three years, substantive issues in advance of meetings and there is a regular subject to the requirement to stand for annual election.
timetable of matters for consideration during the year.
The Chairman agrees the agenda for each meeting in conjunction the Chairman and Chief executive with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Regular There is a clear division of responsibility between the roles of reports include the Groups financial position, risk management, the Chairman and the Chief Executive which are carried out by regulatory compliance and key business operations.
David Thompson and Ralph Findlay respectively.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board Directors may, in the performance of their duties, seek and ensures adequate time is available for Board meetings to independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
consider agenda items, especially strategic matters.
During the year the members of the Remuneration Committee sought advice from Deloitte LLP on a review of the Executive Directors pension provision and on the share-based Long Term Incentive Plan.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 31 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 CorPorate goverNaNCe rePort CoNtINUeD The Chief Executive, supported by the other Executive Directors, training and development is responsible for the performance of the Group in line with Each Director takes responsibility for ensuring that he or she the strategies and objectives established by the Board and the remains up to date in his or her skills and knowledge of the powers delegated by it.
He ensures that the Board is supplied Company and this is reviewed in the annual appraisal and with timely and relevant information to support its strategic role evaluation meetings with the Chairman.
Where appropriate, the and he leads the Executive Directors and senior management in Company provides the resources to meet Directors development dealing with the operational requirements of the business.
All Directors have regular opportunities to meet senior management in the pubs and brewery divisions to maintain senior Independent Director and deepen their understanding of the business.
Lord Hodgson is the Senior Independent Director and served in this capacity throughout the year.
Where necessary, he acts as Each Director has had a tailored induction programme on joining a sounding board for the Chairman and as an intermediary for the Board.
Following his appointment in September, Robin the other Directors.
He is available to shareholders if they have Rowland joined the Board and was given an initial series of concerns which have not been resolved through normal channels, briefings that covered the Company, the industry, governance or in circumstances where those channels are inappropriate.
As arrangements and the operations of the Group.
His induction the Senior Independent Director, Lord Hodgson leads the Boards remains ongoing with site visits and meetings with senior annual assessment of the Chairmans performance and he would management to be held in the coming months.
also lead any discussions on the appointment of a new Chairman.
During the year the Board held a number of its meetings off-site Board effectiveness to allow its Directors to visit a number of pubs and meet local The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, led the annual management in order to gain an understanding of operational performance evaluation of the Board, committees and individual matters.
Directors and reported his findings to the Board.
The process was based on questionnaires and one-to-one meetings by the Conflicts of interest Chairman with each Director and the Company Secretary.
Each The Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise potential standing committee also discussed, and reported to the Board conflicts of interest and to impose such limits or conditions as on, its own performance.
The Non-executive Directors, led by it thinks fit.
There is a procedure in place, whereby actual and the Senior Independent Director, met without the Chairman to potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and the appraise his performance.
appropriate authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or if a new conflict arises.
This procedure was The New Code requires such evaluation to be externally in place during the year and operated prior to the appointment of facilitated at least every three years.
In September 2010, the Robin Rowland.
Board appointed Blackwood Recruitment LLP Blackwood to facilitate an independent evaluation of the Board, its committees The Chairman is a Director of Ragleth Limited the controlling and Directors.
Blackwood has no other connection with the shareholder of Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited and a supplier Company.
Through a combination of questionnaires and faceto the Company.
All contracts are concluded on ordinary to-face interviews with each member of the Board, Blackwood commercial terms without the Chairman being present in contract produced their own assessment.
negotiations or in the event of any consideration of these by the Board.
The Chairman has no controlling interest in Ragleth The results and observations of internal meetings and the Limited and consequently the transactions between the Group external assessment were summarised by the Chairman in a and Ragleth Limited are not Related Party Transactions as report to the Board.
Each Committee and the Board concluded defined by International Financial Reporting Standards.
that it was satisfied overall with its own effectiveness and the contribution and commitment of each of its Directors.
In addition, the Board agreed actions to further enhance its effectiveness and, as a result, the Board agendas and meeting timetable will be updated to reflect the feedback received.
32 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 goverNaNCe Communication with shareholders Board meetings and attendance An investor relations programme is in place between the The Board and Committee attendance record of Directors Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and during the period is set out below.
Matters such as strategy, performance, management Board meetings, of which 5 were held away from Head Office.
In and governance are discussed within the constraints of addition, a day was spent considering Group strategy.
information already made publicly available.
Name Board rem Nom audit The Board considers it important to understand the views David Thompson 11 11 5 5 of shareholders and issues which concern them.
It receives Robin Hodgson 11 11 5 5 5 5 3 3 feedback from analysts and institutional shareholders on their Rosalind Cuschieri 11 11 5 5 5 5 3 3 meetings with Executive Directors.
During the year the Chairman Miles Emley 11 11 5 5 5 5 3 3 and Senior Independent Director were available to meet with the Neil Goulden 11 11 5 5 5 5 3 3 Companys major institutional investors who are also offered the Robin Rowland 1 1 opportunity to meet with newly appointed Directors.
Ralph Findlay 11 11 5 5 Andrew Andrea 11 11 The Company Secretary oversees communication with private Derek Andrew 11 11 shareholders on behalf of the Board.
All material information Alistair Darby 11 11 reported to the regulatory news services is simultaneously Stephen Oliver 11 11 published on the Companys website affording all shareholders full access to Company announcements.
There is an ongoing programme of encouraging shareholders to receive Company Robin Rowland was appointed on 1 September 2010. information by electronic means.
As a result the Companys website has become the primary method of communication for Board committees the majority of its shareholders.
Details of other information The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and available for shareholders on the website include comprehensive share price information, results presentations and financial Nomination Committees comply with the provisions of the Code calendars.
and are available for inspection, on the Companys website www.
They are also available on written request The AGM is an opportunity for the Board to communicate with from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Recent trading performance and developments in the business are explained prior to the formal business of the Nomination Committee meeting.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions during the The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman, David meeting, which is followed by an opportunity to meet with the Thompson, and its other members are Miles Emley, Ralph Directors on an informal basis.
There will be separate voting on Findlay, Lord Hodgson, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden.
The Company will release the results Other Executive Directors, senior management and external of voting to the London Stock Exchange and publish the results advisers may be invited to attend meetings.
The Committee on its website on the next business day.
has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board, retirements and appointments of additional and replacement Directors, succession planning and for recommending potential candidates who will maintain an appropriate balance of skills and experience on the Board.
In doing so, the Committee considers, amongst other factors, the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
The Committee held five meetings during the year.
It reviewed the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and the independence of each Non-executive Director.
These reviews provide a background to succession planning, future composition and the re-election of each Director.
No Director was involved in any decision regarding his or her own re-appointment.
Following the reviews, the Committee recommends that each Director, in offering to stand for re-election, be proposed by the Board for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 33 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 CorPorate goverNaNCe rePort CoNtINUeD During the year, the Committee considered the appointment Role of a new Non-executive Director.
Using the review procedures The Committees main responsibilities cover corporate reporting, referred to above, the specification for the role was identified and risk management, internal controls and the relationship a shortlist of candidates was drawn up.
The Committee did not with the external Auditors.
It makes an annual assessment consider it appropriate to appoint an external search consultancy of the cost-effectiveness, objectivity and independence of or use advertisements, given the suitability of candidates  LLP, the Companys external Auditors.
Following meetings with the Chairman It accepts that some non-audit work is most appropriately and Chief Executive, the other Directors met with the shortlisted undertaken by the Auditors.
Where such work is expected to candidates before the Committee recommended the appointment be in excess of a specified amount, the Chairman of the Audit of Robin Rowland to the Board.
Biographical details for Robin Committee must approve the work.
Below that amount, the Rowland can be found on page 27.
Groups Finance Director has authority to approve such work once he is satisfied that the Auditors are the most appropriate remuneration Committee providers.
There is an annual review of the provision of, and fees The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Hodgson for, non-audit services as part of the Committees evaluation of Chairman, Miles Emley, Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden.
the adequacy and objectivity of the Auditors.
Ralph Findlay attends if required.
It met five times in the period to consider and determine, on behalf of the Board, service Activities contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including bonuses, During the year the Committee met three times to consider for Executive Directors.
It monitors the level and structure of and review the risks to the Group, the internal control and remuneration for senior managers and approves their bonus risk management systems and to assess the annual internal payments.
It is also responsible for the granting of LTIP awards audit plan.
It considered and recommended for Board approval and share options.
the Annual Report, Interim Results and the preliminary announcement.
Further information on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on In assessing the work of the external Auditors, the Committee pages 37 to 44.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report found itself satisfied with the scope of their work, their will be proposed at the AGM.
effectiveness, independence and fee proposal and recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
The Committee is satisfied that audit Committee adequate safeguards are in place to protect the independence Composition and objectivity of the service provided by the external Auditors.
The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley, Lord Hodgson, The Group has used other accounting firms for non-audit work.
Rosalind Cuschieri and Neil Goulden.
The Board considers them In each case, consideration was given to the need for value to have relevant financial experience.
Miles Emley served as for money, experience and objectivity required in the particular Chairman throughout the financial period and until 3 December circumstances.
2010 when Neil Goulden will take over the Chairmanship of the Committee.
The Board regards Neil Goulden as having recent and In addition, the Committee reviewed a number of standing items relevant financial experience given his recent roles as Executive including the Groups whistleblowing policy and arrangements Chairman and acting Chief Executive of Gala Coral Group.
therein, matters arising from internal audits and compliance and legal developments.
Other individuals, such as the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Corporate Risk Manager, are usually invited to attend all or Internal controls part of the Committees meetings.
The Corporate Risk Manager The Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups systems reports to each meeting and has the right to approach the of internal control and risk management whose implementation Committee direct.
At least once a year, the external Auditors meet is the responsibility of the Executive Directors.
Such systems are the Committee without any Executive Director present.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and by their nature can provide only a reasonable and not absolute defence against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of the law.
An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties surrounding the Company is given in this report.
To manage these and other risks the Company has an established risk management programme to identify, assess and mitigate them.
34 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 goverNaNCe Control environment The internal audit strategy takes into account the key business The key features of the systems of internal controls include: risks of the Group and provides assurance to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the internal control environment in a clearly defined management structure operating within mitigating the risks to an acceptable level.
The risk management strategy provides vital information to ensure that internal audit a framework of policies and procedures covering authority provides sufficient coverage of the key internal controls.
levels, responsibilities and accountabilities: a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities, Principal risks and uncertainties with the annual Group budget and projections for future years The following represents, in the opinion of the Board, the being formally approved by the Board: principal risks of the business.
It is not a complete list of all established procedures for planning, approving and the risks and the priority, impact and likelihood of the risks can monitoring capital expenditure and major projects: change over time.
Board approval being needed for all major investment, divestment and strategic plans and programmes: economic risk a review at each Board meeting of financial and non-financial Economic conditions in the UK continue to have an impact progress towards the Groups goals: and upon customer behaviour in all market sectors including leisure.
an internal audit function that scrutinises internal controls and Marstons is reliant upon consumer levels of discretionary spend.
conducts audits on controls associated with key risks of the There is a risk that the UKs economic recovery will be slow, or business, and which recommends improvements.
even that the economy could dip into recession.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk The Government has announced significant cuts in public management and internal control systems occurs annually and spending and welfare payments.
This is already influencing is co-ordinated by the internal audit function.
The Board also consumer behaviour and could significantly constrain spending.
receives reports from the Audit Committee on that Committees The planned increase in the VAT rate to 20% on 4 January 2011 regular reviews of internal controls and risk management systems.
could further dampen consumer spending.
The review this year confirmed that there is a clear link between Economic conditions are leading to an increase in industrial the key risks of the business and the controls used to manage action compared to recent years.
How widespread this will be in those risks.
Ownership of the controls by the managers within the the next year is not known.
Industrial action by staff within the business is well defined and there are no significant weaknesses public sector could affect Marstons objectives where there is that require remedial actions to take place.
a degree of reliance on those services.
Suppliers to Marstons could be severely disrupted by strikes, although Marstons seeks risk management system to mitigate this through avoiding an over-reliance upon any one There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and supplier and by contingency plans.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This operated during the year and up to the date of signing this report.
The The tenants and free trade customers with whom Marstons trade Groups risk management and governance framework is are in essence small businesses prone to risks similar to many designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring, other small businesses in the UK.
Factors such as the ability management and control of risks that are significant to the to obtain credit, property values, taxation, and inflation could all achievement of the Groups business objectives.
The Chief affect the profitability of these businesses and in turn Marstons Executive meets regularly with the Corporate Risk Manager to own performance.
review the risks faced by the Group and the Board reviews risk annually.
These reviews cover strategic, financial, operational and reputation risk compliance risks.
Marstons has invested heavily in a visible and national brand.
Its reputation is central to its relationship with investors, customers, Managers are required to identify the key internal controls for staff, suppliers and regulatory authorities.
There is a risk that each of the risks they are responsible for and to identify the Marstons reputation could be damaged if it is not properly control owners.
These risks are then classified and recorded in protected.
The Corporate Risk Manager reviews and analyses the outcome of this process and reports the results to the relevant divisional Managing Directors, who prioritise the key risks for their management teams.
The Groups risk register is reported at each Audit Committee meeting.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 35 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 CorPorate goverNaNCe rePort CoNtINUeD For investors, financial performance is key.
The rights issue in operational Control risk July 2009 committed Marstons to development and performance Financial Control targets which, if not met, could affect its standing amongst its The need for control of treasury risks and for operational investors.
compliance with banking and securitisation covenants is explained in the Financial Review.
Internal controls are in place For others, such as customers, employees and suppliers, for financial transactions, and to guard against any misstatement Marstons reputation is maintained by having excellent levels of results.
Risks are mitigated by the use of appropriate authority of customer service, quality of customer experience, quality levels for transaction approval, segregation of duties and the of products, continuity of supply, safety and professionalism.
production of detailed financial reports throughout the year.
The Groups reputation amongst regulatory bodies has to be maintained with vigilance through legal compliance, sound IT corporate responsibility and internal governance.
The Groups operational activities are heavily reliant upon IT.
Marstons communications network should process management Legislation risk information, conduct financial transactions, place supplier orders There is continued focus by the Government upon, as well as and receive customer orders without delay or interference.
The media and public interest in, health concerns associated with IT infrastructure is designed to have sufficient capacity to alcohol.
Cheap alcohol made widely available in supermarkets has meet needs and is protected behind robust firewalls.
Business in particular received a lot of criticism from lobby groups.
How the continuity controls are regularly rehearsed to improve the chances Coalition Government will tackle these issues remains unclear.
of recovery of data within acceptable tolerances.
There is a risk that legislation is introduced restricting further the sale of alcohol which could affect the operation of our licensed Pension premises, or those of our tenants and free trade customers.
The funding of the final salary pension scheme the Scheme and the management of its deficit is explained in the Financial The beer tie, which creates a contractual obligation for a tenant Review.
Investment returns, as well as the assumptions taken to purchase drink from a brewing entity, is under pressure regarding future salaries and longevity all affect the valuation of from lobby groups.
In 2009 the Business Enterprise Select the Scheme and its future liabilities.
Uncertainty around these Committee produced a report on the pub industry calling for a variables is reduced by triennial valuations of the Scheme, by the series of recommendations to be met by June 2011, or face a recent appointment by the pension trustees of an Investment possible referral to the Competition Commission and legislation.
Subcommittee, and mitigated by setting the Groups top-up It is difficult at this stage to predict the outcome of any future contributions at an appropriate level, and by changes to the Competition Commission inquiry.
Marstons new-build programme is reliant upon projects receiving local authority planning permission.
Marstons seeks to mitigate the impact of this variation by having sufficient projects submitted at any one time.
The Governments Spending Review may affect approval times and the planning system generally.
In addition, planning regulations are becoming more demanding, especially for the eco-efficiency of buildings.
