Nomination Committee report The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the At a further meeting in July 2010, subsequent to the year end, the year and minor changes made to reect the actual operation Committee met for the purposes of: of the Committee.
It was concluded that the Charter complies with all relevant guidelines and operates satisfactorily.
The Assessing the contributions made by the individual Directors Committees Charter is available from the Groups website prior to recommending their re-election to the Board: at www.
co. uk Considering the re-election of the independent Non-Executive Directors and of the Chairman to the Board: The Committees Chairman is the Chairman of the Board and Considering the continuation of Colin Smith in the role of the other members comprise the three Non-Executive Directors, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert, Bob Lee and Colin Smith, and Reviewing the composition of the Remuneration, Audit and the Chief Executive Chris Bull.
Nomination Sub-Committees of the Board.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to assist the Board in No Committee member participated in any discussion relating reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and to their personal position.
its sub-committees, to identify and nominate candidates to ll Board vacancies, to formulate succession plans for executive and Non-Executive Directors, and to recommend the election or re-election of Directors to the Board.
Five meetings of the Committee were held during the year two in July 2009, one in November 2009, one in February 2010 and one in April 2010.
The meetings held in July were convened for the purposes of assessing the contributions of the individual directors in light of the output received from the Board Performance Evaluation exercise and, accordingly, to consider their re-election to the Board as appropriate and to review the composition of the subcommittees of the Board.
The Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of Richard Armitage as the new Group Finance Director with effect from November 2009.
Responsibility for the drawing up of an appropriate service contract setting out the terms and conditions, expectations and responsibilities of the role was assumed by the Remuneration Committee.
The meetings held between November 2009 and April 2010, were convened to oversee the process to identify a replacement Chief Executive following the resignation of the previous incumbent, Miles Roberts.
The services of an external search consultant were engaged to identify prospective candidates and interviews were conducted by members of the Committee.
The appointment of Chris Bull was ultimately recommended and the Remuneration Committee assumed responsibility for drawing up a suitable service contract.
During the year, formal and tailored induction programmes were also drawn up for both the Group Finance Director and the new Chief Executive.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 64
