Audit Committee report Introduction Accounting policies The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fullling The Committee received regular updates on technical reporting its responsibilities regarding the integrity of the Companys issues and on critical accounting policies.
It reviewed the Groups financial statements, reviewing risk management, internal control finance policies and procedures for consistency and particularly in and the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function, areas where different approaches would have been possible.
The monitoring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, Committee satisfied itself that the financial statements give a true the performance, independence, appointment, re-appointment and fair view of the profits, assets, liabilities and financial position and remuneration of external auditors, and reviewing the Companys of the Group.
External auditors Composition of the Audit Committee The Committee received reports from the external auditors The composition of the Committee fully reects the provisions including proposals on the audit strategy for the year and reviews of the Code.
The Chairman is Colin Smith and the other members on the scope and outcome of the interim and year-end audits and are the other independent Non-Executive Directors, Bob Lee and on control and accounting developments.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee members are sufciently competent in financial matters.
The Committee evaluated the performance of the external Mr Smith is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and auditors during the year concluding that this was satisfactory.
has relevant financial experience and up-to-date knowledge of The Committee will continue to periodically review the performance financial matters.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the The Committee monitored the external audit rms compliance year and amendments have been made to reect the latest with applicable ethical guidance and, in addition, considered the recommendations made by the Financial Reporting Council and independence and the objectivity of the external auditors taking other relevant guidelines with particular focus on reviews of the due account of all appropriate guidelines.
The risk of KPMG Audit Plc external auditors and risk factors linked to the changing economic leaving the market is considered remote since they are one of the conditions.
The Committees Charter is available from the Groups top four accounting rms in the UK.
co. uk As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the The Committee met three times during the financial year ended re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, the Audit Committee has taken 30 June 2010 in September 2009, February 2010 and May 2010. into account the tenure of the auditors and considered whether Subsequent to the year-end, a further meeting took place to there should be a full tender process.
The Committee is aware of consider the outcome of the annual audit for the year ended the FRC guidance relating to the appointment of the external audit 30 June 2010.
Attendance at meetings by individual members rm.
The incumbent rm has held the appointment since otation of the Committee is shown in the table on page 59. of the Company and performance remains subject to rigorous annual evaluation.
The Committee will submit to tender at such time Principal activities as it deems appropriate, whilst seeking to ensure consistency of During the year, the principal activities of the Committee were approach at all times.
There are no contractual obligations restricting as follows: the Committees choice of external auditors.
The main audit partner, being subject to rotation under the Auditing Practices Boards Financial statements Ethical Standards, has stepped down and his responsibilities have The Committee received regular reports on the Groups trading been assumed by another partner.
performance and considered reports from the external auditors and the Group Finance function on both the interim and full year The Committee considered and approved the external auditors financial statements.
Any critical reporting issues were discussed fees for the year ended 30 June 2010. and the going concern assumptions and the Groups compliance with accounting standards and with Stock Exchange and legal Independent meetings were held between the Committee requirements were considered.
The Committee received regular members and the external auditors in the absence of the executive reports on audit-related and major taxation projects.
The Committee directors and between the Chairman of the Committee and the also reviewed the financial disclosures made by the Group.
The Committee has recommended to the Board the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for the year ending 30 June 2011.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 62 Internal audit Work was awarded during the year to other professional services The tasks undertaken by the internal audit function were subject rms for financial due diligence relating to acquisitions, tax and to regular review by the Committee.
A longer term strategy has pensions advice services.
A total of 0.5 million was incurred in been developed and a Head of Internal Audit has been appointed.
In the meantime, the Committee is satisfied that the internal processes and controls currently in place are adequate.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has Risk management and internal control concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of The Committee received reports relating to the Companys reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity approach to internal control and risk management activities.
A self-assessment programme continued to operate during the year.
This exercise is based on regular reviews of detailed Business Risk Registers, assesses the adequacy of the control mechanisms in place to mitigate the risks and identies any relevant action points necessary to further protect the Companys position.
Within this process, risks are proactively as well as reactively assessed on a regular basis within the divisions.
The Committee has reviewed progress during the year and has concluded that the selfassessment programme has continued to be effective with regular reviews of any risk areas taking place.
More information is reported on pages 44 to 46.
Policies The Committee reviewed the Companys updated corporate policies on social and ethical and whistleblowing matters and the provision of non-audit services.
It concluded that appropriate key policies appear to be in place to ensure that reasonable steps have been taken to prevent fraud and to allow any improprieties to be reported.
Non-audit fees During the year 0.5 million was payable to the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc in respect of audit services for the Group.
In addition, 0.3 million was payable to the Groups auditors for non-audit services where they were best placed to undertake the work due to their knowledge of the business or as a by-product of the audit function: this was primarily tax-related work and due diligence in relation to an acquisition made by the Group.
More details of the total non-audit fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year are set out in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements on page 92.
We have in place a policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services which has been designed to preserve the independence of the auditors in performing the statutory audit and it aims to avoid any conict of interest by specifying the type of non-audit work for which the auditors can be engaged without referral to the Audit Committee, for which a case-by-case decision is necessary, and from which they are excluded.
In accordance with this policy, other providers are considered for non-audit work that is awarded on the basis of service and cost.
A copy of the policy is published on the Groups website at www.
co. uk McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 63 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
