Corporate governance report Combined Code compliance The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their The McBride Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders specic areas of expertise and knowledge and their wide ranging for the Groups activities and is responsible for the effectiveness experience and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters of its corporate governance practices.
We remain committed to constructively in relation to both the development of strategy and maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
For the performance against the objectives set out by the Board.
Specic financial year under review, we are governed by and endorse the skills include expertise in the sourcing of key raw materials, provisions set out in The Combined Code on Corporate Governance experience of the retail markets and knowledge of financial and the Code, as published by the Financial Reporting Council and investment markets.
We have continued to assess our level of compliance with the Code and disclosures in this years report The role of senior independent Non-Executive Director continues describe how the principles are applied.
The Board considers that, to be held by Colin Smith, and has been held by him since July 2004. throughout the year under review, the Company has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK Procedures are in place to capture the disclosure by Directors of any listed companies as contained in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board situations which may conict with the Companys interests and also acknowledges the introduction of the UK Corporate Governance for the consideration and authorisation of any such conicts by the Code published on 28 May 2010 The 2010 Code, which amends Board, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Code, and will report compliance in next years Annual Report the Articles.
A record is maintained of any disclosures and and Accounts.
compliance is reviewed at each Board meeting.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when Composition and independence of the Board authorising any conict, if they think this is appropriate.
These For the year to 30 June 2010, the Board comprised six members, procedures have been applied during the year and are included being two executive Directors, the Chairman and three as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
As announced on 3 November 2009 Miles Roberts resigned as Chief Executive and left the Company Director elections on 30 April 2010.
Miles was succeeded by Chris Bull who was In line with the Code, the Articles require all Directors to submit appointed to the Board on 4 May 2010.
Richard Armitage was themselves for re-election at every third AGM.
However, all the appointed as Group Finance Director on 1 November 2009.
The Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman have, once again, agreed executive Directors are supported by the senior executives within for this year to submit themselves for annual re-election.
Iain Napier, the Group and, in particular, by the work of the members of the Christine Bogdanowicz-Bindert, Bob Lee and Colin Smith shall Group Management Team GMT whose composition and role therefore retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves are outlined on page 49. for re-election.
The Board is satisfied that all the Non-Executive Directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively The Directors biographies appear on page 48 and illustrate the and to demonstrate commitment to their role, including commitment range of experience which ensures an effective Board to lead and of time for Board and committee meetings as well as any other control the Group.
The size of the Board allows individuals to duties which may be undertaken by them from time to time.
communicate openly and freely and to make a personal contribution The non-executive portfolio of Iain Napier is not considered to have through the exercise of their individual skills and experience.
an adverse impact on his commitment or ability to full his duties The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary as Chairman of McBride plc.
range of financial, operational and entrepreneurial experience.
The Board has a balance of skills, experience, independence and The two executive Directors, Chris Bull and Richard Armitage, having knowledge of the Company and no single Director is dominant been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, will resign at the in the decision making process.
forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
In future, both Directors have agreed to stand for We consider that all the Boards Non-Executive Directors continue re-election on an annual basis, as recommended in the 2010 Code.
to be independent of management in both character and judgement: none of the Non-Executive Directors have any All Directors proposed to shareholders for re-election are relationships or circumstances which could affect their judgement.
accompanied by a biography and a description of the skills and The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the experience that the Company considers are relevant.
Voting levels independence of those Directors who have other appointments in at the 2009 AGM demonstrated continued support for all Directors outside entities.
We believe that the balance between non-executive who held ofce at that time.
and executive representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the executive Directors and senior management.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 56 Operation of the Board Attendance at meetings of the Board and at meetings of subIn carrying out its work, the Board focuses on key tasks, which committees is set out in the table on page 59.
Several Non-Executive include active reviews of the Groups corporate plan and its Director meetings both formal and informal have been held long-term strategy, monitoring the decisions and actions of the during the year without the executive Directors present.
The Senior Chief Executive and the GMT, the Groups trading performance Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors have also and reviews of Group health and safety and business risks.
met without the presence of the Chairman as part of the Board performance evaluation exercise.
The executive Directors are obliged to review and discuss with the Board all strategic projects or developments and all material There is a clear division of responsibilities between the nonmatters currently or prospectively affecting the Company and executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Board delegates its authority for executive supported by the Company Secretary, leads the Board through management of the Company to the Chief Executive, subject to governance matters, ensures that the meetings of the Board and monitoring by the Board and to reservation of various matters with shareholders are properly conducted and is responsible for which must be referred to the Board.
The Chief Executive, supported by the GMT, has day-to-day responsibility for all business of the Group Such reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy and for implementing the agreed strategy and policies of the of the Group: approval of the annual report and accounts and Board.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is other financial statements and conrmation that these statements responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and provide a true and fair view of the financial status of the Group: that the Company complies with all applicable rules, regulations authorisation of major capital expenditure, disposals and and obligations governing the Companys operations.
acquisitions: ensuring the existence of proper internal controls: the approval of banking and other financial arrangements: and A strong feature of the Boards effectiveness is an open style of monitoring of operational and trading performance as well as management and a free ow of information between the executives health, safety and environmental matters and risk management and non-executives.
This is encouraged by the Chairman and procedures.
It also governs matters relating to appointments and supported by the Chief Executive.
All Directors communicate with the remuneration of Board members: reviews senior management each other on a regular basis and contact with senior executives performance and development potential: is responsible for within the Company is encouraged.
In this regard, various senior corporate social responsibility policy-setting and corporate managers are frequently invited to attend Board meetings to make governance and reviews: and authorises significant corporate presentations on specic matters and this serves to facilitate a restructuring programmes.
A copy of the schedule of matters clearer understanding of business issues.
Board papers are prepared specically reserved for decision by the Board is displayed on and issued prior to each Board meeting to enable Directors to give the Groups website at www.
co. uk due consideration to all matters in advance of the meeting.
Directors are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, The Board holds at least six meetings a year at approximately at the Companys expense.
Additional meetings are held as necessary to consider specic matters where a decision is required before the All Directors are entitled to undertake training relevant to their next meeting.
During the year, seven formal Board meetings were duties.
During the year, Colin Smith and Bob Lee as chairmen held and the principal matters considered included regular reviews of the Audit and Remuneration sub-committees respectively of the operational and trading performance of and prospects for continued to attend updates discussion meetings held by leading the Group: approval and monitoring of major projects including advisory bodies.
The new executive Directors received formal consideration of potential acquisitions: and evaluation and approval and in depth induction programmes which included visits to all of potential new corporate development and growth opportunities our operational facilities and presentations by senior executives.
The Board also reviewed and approved Group policies Ongoing training is provided to all Directors in the form of regular and its annual and medium-term plans: it received feedback from brieng papers which are submitted to Board members on presentations to institutional shareholders: approved major capital regulatory legislative developments and on other topics of expenditure investments: approved the full year and interim results specic relevance to them, including their duties and obligations statements: reviewed relevant governance matters and legislative as Directors of a listed company.
developments: approved changes to the Groups banking facilities and the capital structure of the Groups subsidiaries: and considered relevant health, safety and environmental matters.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 57 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Corporate governance report Continued Board performance evaluation The Chief Executive chairs a monthly meeting of the GMT whose role The Board has agreed to run a formal Board evaluation process is to assist with the development and implementation of the Groups annually to assess the overall performance of the Board and the strategy, culture and commercial plan, to consider commercial, contribution made by individual Directors.
The exercise during financial and operational matters, allocate resources across the the year covered a review of the effectiveness of the work of the Group and ensure transfer and sharing of knowledge and best subcommittees of the Board.
The process is undertaken in an practice.
In addition to the Chief Executive, the members of the open manner with responses from Board members to detailed team are the Group Finance Director, the Managing Directors of the questionnaires being submitted to the Company Secretary and principal operating divisions, the Group Purchasing Director, the discussed on a one-to-one basis between the Chairman and the Group Human Resources Director and the Strategic Development individual Director.
Feedback on the effectiveness and performance Director.
Members of the senior management teams are invited of the sub-committees is considered by the respective committee to attend as may be deemed appropriate.
chairmen with the Chairman of the Board.
The Directors led by the Senior Independent Director and in the absence of the Chairman Local operational, commercial, supply chain, finance, development convene a separate meeting to discuss the performance of the and technical issues are delegated via the GMT to senior executive Chairman.
We are of the view that the Board is best placed to management on a structured basis.
Employee and social and carry out such evaluation, however the Board is mindful of the community responsibilities are delegated to the Group Human recommendation under the 2010 Code that this exercise should be Resources Director who reports directly to the Chief Executive.
externally facilitated every three years and this will be considered The Chief Executive is also ultimately responsible for health and in the future.
The current exercise was devised internally and the safety and environmental as well as for customer service and quality process is co-ordinated and overseen by the Company Secretary matters, although day-to-day management is delegated to the who meets with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Managing Directors of the divisions.
to summarise the output from the discussions.
The conclusions are reported by the Chairman to the whole Board.
There are three reportable segments: UK, Western Continental Europe and Eastern Continental Europe.
Each division is headed The results of this evaluation process showed that Directors were by a Managing Director who is responsible for its operational generally positive about the performance and processes of the management.
The Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director Board and its sub-committees.
The Audit Committee is seen to be each attend regular trading meetings with the management of each particularly effective.
Mutual respect exists between individual division in which they review all significant issues, including customer members of the Board and the interaction between the Board and service, trading and operational performance, forecasts, working its sub-committees is seen as good.
The Non-Executive Directors capital, people development, capital investment proposals, health are comfortable about their knowledge and skills and their ability and safety and environmental issues.
Reports on progress are tabled to challenge the executive Directors.
Members of the Board feel at each Board meeting.
very satisfied that they are kept up to date with legislative changes as they affect the Group and with the information they receive Board committees about business and trading performance and developments.
Sub-committees of the Board have been established with Charters which detail their composition, activities and duties.
They also define In order to improve its effectiveness, the Board held one of its the extent of the authority delegated to each sub-committee.
The meetings during the year at the operating site in St Helens.
The Charters, including the composition of the sub-committees, are Directors will continue to consider opportunities to meet with frequently reviewed and updated as necessary to ensure ongoing senior management from the various sites across the Group to compliance with the provisions of the Code and other guidelines.
help broaden their understanding of the operational needs of the Copies of the terms of reference, activities, roles and responsibilities organisation and to promote the long-term success of the Company.
of the Boards sub-committees are available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk Operational management of the Group The relationship between the Board and the Chief Executive is These sub-committees are properly authorised under the governed by the Non-Executive Directors, particularly through the constitution of the Company to take decisions and act on behalf work of the Board sub-committees under which the Non-Executive of the Board within the guidelines and delegations laid down by Directors take active roles to inuence and challenge the work, the Board.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these performance and recommendations of the Chief Executive and sub-committees with reports being tabled from time to time by his executive management.
The Board takes overall responsibility the relevant sub-committee chairmen.
Reports for each of the for approving Group policies, including those relating to social main Board sub-committees follow.
Each committee may access responsibility and business ethics, health and safety, and independent advice as required and each is supported by sustainability and environmental matters, copies of which are the Secretariat.
available on the Groups website at www.
The implementation of these policies is delegated to the Chief Executive and then cascaded throughout the organisation via the GMT and the divisional management teams.
The management of the Groups business activities is also delegated to the Chief Executive who is ultimately responsible for establishing objectives and monitoring executive actions and performance.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 58 Audit Committee The principal activities of the Committee during the period were The Audit Committee comprises the three independent Nonto deal with reviews of the executive Directors performances over Executive Directors and is chaired by Colin Smith who has relevant the year against objectives: to establish objectives for the new financial experience and up-to-date knowledge of financial matters.
financial year: to consider related pay award proposals: to consider In addition, the Committee invites the lead partner of the external senior executive salary reviews and bonus and incentive scheme auditor, the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executive to payments: to consider and agree remuneration packages for the attend each meeting.
Other senior management attend on request new Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: and to deal to enable the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee and with the allocation of LTIP awards.
The Committee also reviewed the Committee chairman also hold private sessions with the the Companys new talent management process as part of its external auditor during the year without the presence of executive consideration of succession planning.
Committee members normally serve for a period of not less than three years and a quorum of the Committee is The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on two members.
There are a minimum of three meetings per annum.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial and regulatory reporting process of the Group and reviews the Groups accounting Nomination Committee policies and disclosure practices.
It reviews and recommends the The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
Board to approve all financial statements and announcements.
The other members are the three Non-Executive Directors and the The Committee also reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Chief Executive.
It is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and internal controls and risk management systems.
It oversees the composition of the Board as well as considering and recommending Companys relations with the external auditor, actively considering the nomination of candidates for appointment as executive or the cost effectiveness, objectivity and effectiveness of the external Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
Members of the Committee audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation are not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
to the appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee has in place a clear policy on the use of external auditors The Committee meets as appropriate and a quorum is three for non-audit services, a copy of which is available from the Groups members, at least two of whom shall be independent Non-Executive website at www.
Non-audit work is awarded in line Directors.
To the extent that such services are carried out by the incumbent auditor, the Committee takes active account of the The report of the Nomination Committee is set out on page 64. relevant ethical guidelines published both by the industry and the audit rm itself and regular reviews of the auditors independence Attendance at meetings are undertaken by the Committee.
Attendance of individual Directors at full Board meetings, meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees and the The report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 62 and 63.
AGM during the year ended 30 June 2010 is given in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination AGM Remuneration Committee Number of meetings held: 7 3 5 5 1 Number attended: The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent Mr I J G Napier 7 n a 5 5 1 Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The 1 Mr C D Bull 1 n a n a n a n a Committee is chaired by Bob Lee.
It reviews the overall remuneration 1 3 Mr M W Roberts 6n a n a 2 1 policy and makes recommendations to the Board on remuneration 1 Mr R J Armitage 4 n a n a n a n a for the executive Directors and monitors the level and structure Mrs C A Bogdanowicz-Bindert 7 3 5 5 1 of remuneration for key senior executives.
It also reviews the Mr R A Lee 7 3 5 5 1 2 Companys talent and management development plans.
The Chief Mr C D Smith 62 4 5 1 Executive is invited to attend the Committee meetings on all matters n a indicates the Director is not a member of the committee.
except those relating to his own remuneration.
The composition of the Committee reects the provisions of the Code.
The Committee 1 Meetings attended by Mr Bull, Mr Armitage and Mr Roberts during their respective periods of appointment.
does not formally retain remuneration consultants but takes 2 Mr Smith was unable to attend one Board, one Audit and one Remuneration meeting professional advice from external advisors as and when required.
He had received relevant papers and had the opportunity to communicate his views and comments on the matters to be discussed in advance of the meetings.
The Committee meets at the request of any member but is required 3 Mr Roberts did not attend any of the Nomination Committee meetings at which the to meet at least once in each financial year and a quorum is two appointment of a new Chief Executive was considered.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the Committees Directors are not present in meetings when matters relating to them decisions.
They have no conicts of interest arising from crossare being discussed.
directorships with the executive Directors nor from being involved in the day-to-day business of the Group.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 59 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Corporate governance report Continued Relations with shareholders Overview The Board places considerable importance on the maintenance of The system of key internal control procedures within the Group effective, balanced communications with all shareholders.
Meetings is operated as an integral part of the organisation of executive with analysts and institutional shareholders are held at the time responsibilities and accountabilities.
The procedures remain broadly of the interim and final results.
These provide the opportunity for the same as were in place in 2009 but have been enhanced where shareholders to assess the Groups performance and prospects and potential weaknesses have been found to exist.
to explore the Groups approach to corporate governance matters.
The executive Directors also regularly meet face to face with The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of analysts, brokers and fund managers to further promote a better internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This control understanding of the business and its strategic development.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks of failure Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution and to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable but regular discussion of analysts and brokers briengs and a summary not absolute assurance that assets are safeguarded against of investor opinion feedback.
The Board also receives reports on the unauthorised use or material loss, and that its transactions output from surveys carried out by various investor research bodies.
are properly authorised and recorded.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to discuss governance and strategy with major The Board delegates responsibility to members of the GMT shareholders should such a request be made and both are prepared to consider and reassess the effectiveness of the existing controls to contact individual shareholders should any specic areas of and to identify whether any new risks have arisen as a result of any concern or enquiry be raised.
Where applicable, the views of major control weaknesses.
shareholders are sought on certain issues.
We respond throughout the year to correspondence received from individual shareholders Business risk review on a wide range of issues and we also participate in a number of The Groups internal control and risk management activities are surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety of investor managed through business risk reviews and a supporting detailed research bodies.
set of internal control procedures.
An internal resource has been established to work on internal audit projects and to provide All members of the Board are present at the AGM to respond to assurances to the Audit Committee that relevant controls and queries posed by individual shareholders or their representatives.
Whistleblowing procedures are in place for The Chairman also provides an update on current trading conditions.
individuals to report suspected breaches of law or regulations At each AGM the Chairman reports, after each show of hands, or other serious malpractices.
details of all proxy votes lodged for and against each resolution, and the number of abstentions.
Subsequently, the results are also The divisions have continued to undertake their internal self-audit published on the Groups website at www.
co. uk programmes during the year to review their business risks and to rate their impact and review actions and internal controls to Internal control and risk management mitigate them.
The review ensures that business risk assessment The internal control system, which accords with the Turnbull is integral to general business processes and ensures that risks are Guidance, embraces all material controls and business risks, reviewed on a regular basis taking account of the dynamic nature including financial, operational and strategic risks, and incorporates of both the business and the external environment in which the a full review of compliance controls and risk management across the Group operates.
Risks are assessed both at divisional and at Group Group.
This system is operated as an integral part of the organisation level in terms of their potential impact on the business, mitigating of executive responsibilities and accountabilities and has been controls and actions and the risk reports are reviewed by the reviewed by the Board.
The reviews consider all aspects of the Groups activities, including financial, commercial, supply chain, employee and operational impacts, including environmental, social and governance risk.
The principal risks and uncertainties by the Group are reported on pages 44 to 46.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 60 Key control procedures Documented policies.
There are documented policies for a range Management responsibility and accountability.
The Group has of areas including HR matters, expenditure, treasury and financial clearly dened management responsibility and reporting lines.
The Group Finance Manual is updated annually and The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet monthly with incorporates accounting, tax and treasury policies.
It also includes the UK, Western Continental Europe and Eastern Continental reporting responsibilities, capital expenditure approval procedures Europe senior management teams to review progress on financial, and a detailed Internal Control Questionnaire ICQ.
The ICQ is commercial, operational, supply chain, HR, health, safety and completed and signed by Divisional Managing Directors and Finance environmental issues as well as regulatory and legal Directors each year to confirm their compliance.
The Group Finance compliance matters.
Manual also includes a Group Authority Levels document which details matters reserved for the Board, Remuneration Committee, Corporate planning process.
The Group updates its three year Audit Committee, Chief Executive, Finance Director, divisional Corporate Plan each year and this is approved by the Board.
It Managing Directors, HR Director, Company Secretary, Legal advisor focuses on the market environment, Group strategy and objectives, and Group Purchasing.
actions to achieve them and implementation through the divisions.
Strengths, weaknesses, risks and opportunities are highlighted Finance function independence.
The Finance function is on a divisional and Group level.
The implementation of the Plan encouraged to act independently of general management in the is monitored via the progress of key project plans in the monthly course of its preparation of monthly accounts and exercising of GMT meetings, and through a system of measurement that aims control procedures.
A monthly accounts review takes place between to give early warning of any failure to meet plan targets.
the Group Finance Director and each Divisional Finance Director during which the accounts are reviewed in the context of Group Budgeting and reporting.
There is a comprehensive annual policy and any areas of judgement discussed.
budgeting process that is ultimately approved by the Board.
Financial performance of divisions against budget is monitored Internal audit.
A Head of Internal Audit has been appointed to and challenged centrally, and full year forecasts are updated each evaluate and improve the effectiveness of the risk management, quarter.
The Board is regularly updated on the Groups financial control and governance processes of the Group.
At the start of each performance and position against targets.
financial year a programme is agreed.
From time to time a specic matter arises that needs to be addressed quickly and is added to Financial reporting.
Detailed management accounts are prepared the programme.
each month, consolidated and reviewed in detail with each division and the GMT.
The analysis provided includes commercial, Cash.
The cash position at Group and operational level is monitored operational, environmental, financial and people Key Performance daily and variances from forecast levels are investigated thoroughly.
Indicators KPIs, and is reviewed against targets.
Working capital balances are analysed in detail, including a monthly review at Group level, and in all cases significant variances are Key performance indicator benchmarking.
of commercial, operational, financial and people KPIs are reported each month up to Group level.
Performance against targets and Audit committee.
The Committee meets three times per annum sharing of best practice are discussed regularly at meetings at site, and regularly reviews reports from the internal and external auditors.
The adequacy and suitability of existing KPIs are reviewed regularly.
The Auditors add a further independent perspective on certain aspects of the internal financial control Expenditure approval.
Authorisation and control procedures system as a result of their work.
are in place for capital expenditure and other major projects.
There is also a process to review capital expenditure projects post The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal completion to highlight issues, motivate management to achieve controls and risk management procedures during the year and is forecast benets and improve future projects.
Authorisation satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating procedures for operating costs and contractual commitments and managing risks faced by the Group.
There are documented are reviewed regularly.
policies on a range of subjects, clearly dened lines of responsibility and forums to review performance and highlight issues at site, division, Group management and Board levels.
This process has been in place for the year under review and has remained in place up to the date of approval of the Directors Report.
All risks are regularly reviewed and the key corporate risks are referred to in the Business Review section of this report.
The Board has concluded that the key business risks of McBride are well controlled and that the controls and procedures are adequate and appropriate.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 61 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
