MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Corporate governance report 35 Effectiveness Chairmans introduction After our successful external Board evaluation in 2012, we Throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2013 and to returned to an internal evaluation in 2013, using lessons learned the date of this report, we have complied with the provisions set from the external process.
The main findings and out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 published by the recommendations of the evaluations in 2013 were to enhance our Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The Company has strategy reviews and risk management process and continue to applied the main and supporting principles set out in the Code.
improve the annual Board schedule, including site visits and An explanation of how the main principles have been applied is operational and functional presentations.
A full description of the set out in this report and in the Directors remuneration report, process and outcome of this years formal and rigorous review is the Nominations Committee report and the Audit Committee on page 41. report.
A number of new disclosure requirements are reflected Accountability in this report in particular, as required under the Large and The Board, led by executive management, has enhanced our risk Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports management process and reporting in 2013.
We have Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Code.
consolidated our key risks detailed in the Annual Report: our The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of shareholders can read about the most significant risks and corporate governance, which are fundamental to discharging our uncertainties and the revised risk management process on responsibilities.
As Chairman, I encourage open and transparent pages 15 to 17. discussion and constructive challenge.
It is my responsibility to The Board and Audit Committee have sought to improve this ensure that Meggitt is governed and managed in the best Annual Report and to ensure that it is fair, balanced and interests of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
we set out our governance framework and explain how sound and effective corporate governance practices support our Remuneration strategy of creating long-term, sustainable growth.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the directors remuneration package and prepared the Groups Leadership remuneration policy for inclusion in this years Directors In 2013, Terry Twigger retired from the Board, having served as remuneration report and submission to shareholders for Chief Executive for over 12 years.
He was replaced by Stephen approval at the AGM in 2014.
The Directors remuneration report Young who was, until that time, Group Finance Director with pages 47 to 67 provides a detailed review of the Committees effect from 1 May 2013.
In early June, we appointed Doug Webb 2013 activity, vesting outcomes and remuneration policy and as Chief Financial Officer.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to proposals for 2014 and beyond.
thank Terry for his contribution to the success of Meggitt and welcome Stephen and Doug to their new roles.
I am pleased to report that we have seen a smooth transition during the succession period.
Stephen and Doug have visited our facilities, customers and shareholders, emphasising our continued commitment to returns to shareholders and to improving operational performance and customer service through initiatives such as the Meggitt Production System.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman of the Board of directors 3 March 2014
