CORPORATE DIRECTORS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTICE OF AGM Illustration of the application of our Statement of consideration of Future Policy Table for Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy shareholder views The Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services and do not receive any other benefits from the Group, nor do they participate in any of the bonus or share schemes.
The fees recognise the responsibility of the role and the time The chart below gives an indication of the total remuneration The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in commitments required, and are not performance related or pensionable.
They are paid monthly in cash and there are no other benefits.
which could be received by the Chief Executive Officer under relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the the policy.
Three scenarios are presented: the minimum AGM.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman will seek to remuneration receivable: the amount receivable if he performs inform major shareholders of any material changes to the in line with the Companys expectations: and the maximum remuneration policy in advance and will generally offer a remuneration receivable.
Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Chief Executive Officer Key areas of discretion Fees Attract, retain and Reviewed by the Board after recommendation The maximum 000 Key areas of Committee discretion in our remuneration policy fairly reward high by the Chairman and Chief Executive and by the aggregate fees for all 3000 2,855k include but are not limited to : calibre individuals.
Committee in the case of the Chairman taking Directors allowed by the into account individual responsibilities, such as Companys Articles of the choice of financial performance measures in variable committee Chairmanship, time commitment, general Association is 600,000.
2500 remuneration and the choice of performance targets for employee pay increases, and prevailing market levels Current fee levels are those measures 39% at companies of comparable status and market value.
set out in the Directors 1,895k 2000 the treatment of leavers in the Annual Bonus Plan as described Fee increases are normally reviewed annually and are Annual Remuneration in the Policy on payment for loss of office section on page 72 generally effective from 1 January.
30% 1500 certain discretions as set out in the plan rules relating to the vesting of long-term incentive awards and Deferred Bonus Plan 35% The above principles will also be applied for the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors.
awards, such as: 1000 31% 736k the timing of grant of award and or payment the size of an award and or a payment subject to the 500 Service contracts and letters of appointment 100% 39% 26% maximums set out in the Future Policy Table for Executive Directors notice or in accordance with the Articles of Association of All Executive Directors service contracts contain a twelve 0 the Company.
There are no provisions on payment for early month notice period.
The service contracts also contain Minimum Target Maximum determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified termination in the letters of appointment.
After the initial restrictive covenants preventing the Executive Directors categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules three year term they may be reappointed for a further term from competing with the Group for six months following the Fixed remuneration of each plan, and the resulting treatment of the award Annual Bonus of three years, subject to annual re-election at Annual termination of employment and preventing the Executive as described in the Policy on payment for loss of office Long-Term Incentive General Meetings.
Directors from soliciting key employees, clients and candidates section on page 72 of the employing company and Group companies for twelve Further detail on service contracts and letters of adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights months following termination of employment.
Note that the charts are only indicative as share price movement appointment are set out on page 84 and copies are issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends and dividend accruals have been excluded.
Assumptions for each available for inspection at the Companys registered office Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, scenario are as follows: the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for during normal business hours.
are engaged under letters of appointment and do not have exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original service contracts with the Company.
They are appointed for a Minimum: fixed remuneration only i. e. salary, benefits purpose subject to the amended condition not being fixed term of three years, during which period the appointment and pension materially less challenging may be terminated by either party upon one months written Target: fixed remuneration plus 60% of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 50% vesting of awards under long-term External Non-Executive Director positions incentive awards Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual take on non-executive positions with other companies.
Executive bonus opportunity plus 100% vesting of long-term Directors are permitted to retain their fees in respect of such incentive awards positions.
Details of outside directorships held by the Executive Directors and any fees that they received are provided on page 84 The charts are based on an annual salary of 565,000 and of the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
assume a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 175% of salary and maximum long-term incentive awards of 200% of salary, in accordance with the above policy.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group PageGroup does not consult directly with employees when determining remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
However, increases in pay across the senior management population and the wider workforce are taken into account when setting pay levels for Executive Directors.
PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 PageGroup Annual Report And Accounts 2013 73 74 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report
