Anite plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements Corporate Governance report continued Board of Directors Clay Brendish CBE Christopher Humphrey Richard Amos Non-Executive Chairman 66 Chief Executive 56 Group Finance Director and Company Secretary 46 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Appointed to the Board as Chairman Joined the Board in February 2003 as Group Appointed to the Board as Group Finance in October 2005.
Finance Director and was appointed Chief Director in November 2009, assuming the Executive in December 2008. additional responsibility of Company Secretary in February 2010.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Member of the Nomination Committee.
a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Prior to his retirement in May 2001, Clay was Christopher has been a Board member of Anite Richard was previously Group Finance Director Executive Deputy Chairman of CMG which for the last ten years and covered a wide range at Agilisys Holdings Limited, a private IT became Logica CMG and is now part of CGI, of responsibilities during that period.
Previously services company, and Group Finance Director having joined the Board when it acquired he held senior positions in finance at Conoco, and Company Secretary at two listed Admiral plc, the software services company Eurotherm International plc and Critchley technology groups, Retail Decisions plc he co-founded in 1979.
He has also been Group plc.
a Non-Executive Director of BT Group.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Non-Executive Chairman of SThree plc.
Chairman of The Test and Itchen Association Limited.
Board meetings attended during the year Board meetings attended during the year Board meetings attended during the year 11 out of 12 12 out of 12 12 out of 12 Date of letter of reappointment Date of service contract Date of service contract 8 October 2011 3 February 2003 2 November 2009 Unexpired term as at the date of this report Unexpired term as at the date of this report Unexpired term as at the date of this report One year three months Rolling one year Rolling one year Anite plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2013 Business overview Governance Financial statements David Hurst-Brown Nigel Clifford Paul Taylor Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 54 Non-Executive Director 48 64 Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Joined the Board in August 2004, becoming Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Appointed Non-Executive Director in October Senior Independent Director and Chairman Director in April 2009.
2009 and became Chairman of the Audit of the Remuneration Committee in Committee in December 2009.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration, Nomination Chairman of the Audit Committee and and a member of the Audit and Nomination and Audit Committees.
a member of the Remuneration and Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Following a career in the investment Nigel has a wide experience of operational Paul was Group Finance Director with AVEVA banking industry, David has been acting as management across a number of sectors, Group plc for ten years until January 2011, the a Non-Executive Director for a variety of including the wireless telecoms and software worlds leading engineering IT software provider public and private companies.
He is currently CEO of ProcServe to the plant, power and marine industries, Limited, and was previously CEO at Micro Focus where he gained considerable experience of the David is a Fellow of the Securities Institute.
International plc, Symbian Limited, the mobile demands of a growing global software business.
OS software development and licensing Paul is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered company, Tertio Telecoms Limited and Senior Certified Accountants.
Vice President, Service Delivery at Cable & Wireless.
Key external appointments Key external appointments Key external appointments Non-Executive Director of Imagination CEO of ProcServe Limited.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Technologies Group plc.
the Audit Committees of Ubisense plc, Escher Group Holdings plc and Digital Barriers plc and Non-Executive Director of KBC Advanced Technologies plc.
Board meetings attended during the year Board meetings attended during the year Board meetings attended during the year 12 out of 12 12 out of 12 12 out of 12 Date of letter of reappointment Date of letter of reappointment Date of letter of reappointment 24 August 2010 1 April 2012 5 October 2012 Unexpired term as at the date of this report Unexpired term as at the date of this report Unexpired term as at the date of this report Two months One year nine months Two years three months
