Corporate Governance pp52-92 Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction What does good governance mean to National Express?
National Express supports diversity throughout the Group as well as in the Boardroom.
While our existing policy is to select the best available candidate for any role irrespective of race, gender, disability or age, we have set the aspirational target that by 2015, 30% of the Board will be women, in line with the recommendation of the Davies Report on Boardroom Diversity.
We are making good progress towards our target and with the recent appointment of Jane Kingston, 20% of our Board are now women.
In 2013 the review of the performance of Dear shareholder, the Board was carried out internally via a As a listed company in the UK, National Express questionnaire circulated to all Directors.
The is subject to the UK Corporate Governance review confirmed that the Board continued Code the Code.
The Code encourages me to to operate effectively.
More details are set out report personally on how the principles relating on page 61. to the role and effectiveness of the Board have There have been a number of changes in been applied, and I am happy to do so.
reporting requirements introduced this year by The Board believes that maintaining the highest the September 2012 edition of the Code and standards of corporate governance is essential the Large and Medium-sized Companies and to protecting shareholder value and the Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment sustainable growth of the Group.
We do not see Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The most governance as a box ticking exercise but as an significant reporting changes have been to our integral part of ensuring we do the right things in Directors Remuneration Report as a result the right way and that is fully embraced by all of of the Regulations with the introduction of the our employees across the Group.
binding vote on our remuneration policy and the way we are required to report on some This section of the Annual Report and Accounts elements of remuneration.
explains the various aspects of the governance of the Company, including reports from our This year our Annual General Meeting will be Board Committees on their work in 2013. held at 2.00 pm on 14 May 2014 at Hall 5, International Convention Centre, Broad Street, The role of the Board is to provide leadership Birmingham B1 2EA and I would encourage of the Company with myself as Chairman you to attend to meet me and the Board.
responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
It is therefore important that the Board has the correct balance of skills and experience and that Board members work together effectively.
During the year under review I was appointed as Chairman taking over from John Devaney, while more recently Jane Kingston has been appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
On 25 February Sir John Armitt 2014 Tim Score stepped down from the Board Chairman and Jackie Hunt became Senior Independent 27 February 2014 Director and Chair of the Audit Committee from 26 February 2014.
I would like to thank Tim for his significant contribution to the Company over the past nine years.
In view of these changes and to ensure continuity, I asked Sir Andrew Foster to remain on the Board even though he has served for more than nine years.
Sir Andrew brings a wealth of knowledge and experience and I greatly value Andrews support and guidance and welcome his decision to take up the offer to remain as a Director until the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
