Ocado Group plc Annual Report for the 52 weeks ended 1 December 2013 55 Governance Board of Directors David Grigson Ruth Anderson Douglas McCallum Non-Executive Director and Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Director Age 60 Age 47 Age 59 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 9 March 2010 3 October 2011 Appointment to the Board 9 March 2010 Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Committee Membership Remuneration, Nomination Audit, Remuneration, Nomination External Appointments External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of The External Appointments Chairman of Trainline President of eBay for Charity Travis Perkins plc Royal Parks, an executive Chairman of Trinity Mirror Non-Executive Director and Investment Holdings Limited agency of the Department of plc Audit Committee Chairman of Non-Executive Director of Cabinet Office Digital Culture, Media and Sport Standard Life plc Coats plc Chairman of Creston plc Advisory Board Director Trustee of the Dolma Chairman of Investis Relevant Experience Development Fund Relevant Experience Limited Ruth was a Vice-Chairman of KPMG in the UK, having joined Douglas has been a pioneer of the internet industry for 18 years: the company in 1976 and becoming Partner in 1989.
She has for the last 12 years at eBay Inc. where he led the UK business Relevant Experience worked extensively as an adviser with UK and international and then turned around the pan-European business.
Prior to David has held a number of posts, including Chief Financial businesses.
Ruth graduated from Bradford University with an joining eBay Inc. he was founder and general manager of a Officer at Reuters Group Plc, Group Finance Director at Emap honours degree in French and Spanish.
She is also a fellow of the number of businesses in the internet, broadcasting, software plc, Chairman of EMAP Digital Limited and Non-Executive Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales and a and hardware industries.
Douglas read Politics, Philosophy and Director of Carphone Warehouse plc.
He graduated from the member of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Economics at the University of Oxford, and has an MBA from University of Manchester with a degree in Economics, and is also Harvard Business School.
a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Alexandra Mahon Jrn Rausing Robert Gorrie Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 40 Age 54 Age 54 Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 1 June 2012 13 March 2003 1 April 2000 Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Audit, Nomination Nomination Nomination External Appointments External Appointments Relevant Experience Chief Executive Officer of Non-Executive Director of the Head of Mergers & Member of the Board of Alfa Robert originally joined the Board in 2000 as Logistics Director, Shine Group Edinburgh TV Festival Acquisitions at Laval AB before becoming a Non-Executive Director in 2006.
He was Tetra Laval Group previously Group Director of Information Technology at Transport Member of the Board of Relevant Experience Development Group plc, where he spent ten years in a variety Member of Tetra Laval Group DeLaval Holdings AB Before Shine Group and 21st Century Fox, Alex spent of commercial and operational roles.
Prior to that Robert spent Board, and Chairman of its seven years in the television industry at talkbackTHAMES, ten years in North America with the logistics service business Remuneration Committee FremantleMedia and RTL Group.
Previously she worked in the Christian Salvesen PLC, where he reached the position of Director internet sector as a consultant.
She holds a Physics degree of Business Development.
Robert graduated from Corpus Christi Relevant Experience from Imperial College London and a Physics PhD from Imperial College, Oxford with an honours degree in Modern History and Jrn has over 20 years experience in corporate development and College and the Institute of Cancer Research.
Jrn holds a degree in Business Administration from Lund University, Sweden.
