Corporate Governance Introduction Chairmans statement on Governance.
At Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer level, we have always had an active relationship with our key shareholders, sharing our strategic vision with them which has provided the Board with essential feedback.
We have now extended this so that Ron Blakely, the Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman and I met with major institutional shareholders in January 2014 to listen to their views on the Companys progress, developments since listing and the executive management team.
This process, which was well received by investors and produced positive responses on the Company and its management team, isongoing.
VivienGibney, the Remuneration Committee Chairman also consulted widely with key institutional shareholders Dear Shareholder concerning the Companys remuneration policy and proposals At Ophir, we are committed to maintaining the highest onremuneration for 2014. standards of corporate governance throughout the Company At an advisory level, we have set up the Technical Advisory and we comply with, and embrace, the principles of the UK Committee under the chairmanship of Alan Booth who Corporate Governance Code.
The report that follows sets out joined the Board in April 2013.
This is an advisory group which our governance arrangements and illustrates how they worked reports into the Board and was set up, amongst other matters, during the year.
toevaluate the effectiveness of the Companys technical 2013 was a landmark year for Ophir and signified the end of our processes and standards.
For more detailed information transition from a private company to a high-ranking member of concerning the fuller remit of this Committee, please refer the FTSE 250.
We saw the completion of our second shareholder topage 50.
Placing and a Rights Issue in the early part of the year.
We also Finally, diversity has been an important agenda point for the launched a major farm-out process for half of our stake in Board and Nomination Committee and our policy is set out Blocks 1, 3 and 4 offshore Tanzania.
The transaction is now separately on page 42 of the Strategic Report.
I am very pleased unconditional in respect of conditions precedent and is expected to note that 20% of our Board is female, that 26% of females to close shortly.
In total, these transactions will have raised over are at the senior management level and that throughout the US$2 billion net to Ophir once sale of the stake in Blocks 1, 3 organisation, the female proportion of our workforce is 43%.
These important issues occupied a significant Diversity, however, is more than gender.
Its also about an proportion of the Boards time during the year, as did the review appropriate mix of experience, nationality, ethnicity and culture.
of the Boards composition, future succession planning and We take this very seriously but note also that all appointments overall effectiveness of the Board which are all addressed in more are made on merit against a pre-agreed selection criteria detail in the following sections.
Four other agenda points are noteworthy, the first being strategy.
As in 2012, the Board held two major strategy sessions with the executive management team during the year.
The knowledge and experience of the independent non-executives has Nicholas Smith enabled the executive team to be robustly challenged on their Chairman recommendations.
From this, has come an agreed strategy for Ophir in the medium term as further described in the Strategic Report pages 2 to 43.
44 Ophir Energy plc Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Framework The Board has a coherent corporate governance framework and illustrated below with clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities designed to safeguard and enhance long-term shareholder value and provide a robust platform to realise Board Chairman, 3 executive the Companys strategy.
directors and 6 independent non-executive directors Audit Committee Nomination Committee Technical Advisory Chief Executive Officer 4 independent 2 independent Committee non-executive directors non-executive directors, 3 independent 1 executive director non-executive directors Executive Committee and Company Chairman and 1 executive director HSE Committee Remuneration 5 independent Committee non-executive directors 5 independent non-executive directors and Company Chairman UK Corporate Governance Code To approve the Companys long-term objectives, commercial The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code applies to andscientific strategy and attitudes to risk: financial years beginning on or after 30 September 2012.
A copy To approve the corporate operating and capital expenditure of the Code can be found at www.
budgets: This Report, which incorporates reports from the Audit, HSE and To approve the interim and final results, the Annual Report and Nomination Committees on pages 53 to 63 together with the Accounts, including the corporate governance statement and Remuneration report on pages 67 to 93 and the Directors Report remuneration report, the dividend policy and any declaration on pages 64 to 66 describes how the Company has applied the ofdividend: relevant principles of the Code.
To approve any material acquisition, disposal, contract orexpenditure: For the financial year ended 31 December 2013, the Company has fully complied with all provisions of the Code.
To approve, following recommendation from the Nomination or Remuneration Committees as appropriate, appointments to Leadership the Board, that of the Company Secretary and other key senior The Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for the management, Committee membership and remuneration for continuing success of the Company.
To achieve this, the Board Directors and senior executives: provides leadership to the business and, either directly or through To review, following recommendation from the Audit Committee the operation of its Committees and delegating authority, the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk brings an independent judgement on all matters of strategy, management systems: performance, resources, standards of conduct and accountability.
To approve, following recommendation from the HSE Committee, As at 31 December 2013, the Board and its Committees were the Companys health, safety, environmental and other relevant structured as set out in the chart above.
The Board has adopted policies: and a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval and has delegated other specific responsibilities to its Committees.
To approve the Companys corporate governance policies and Thematters specifically reserved for the Board are set out in writing procedures and set the Companys values and standards.
andsummarised below: Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
