OVERVIEW OUR PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Section 4 Governance 57 Chairmans letter Dear shareholders With these changes the board now predominantly comprises independent non-executive directors.
We This year, we are reporting for the first time against the believe this re-balancing enables Pearson to benefit 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code from our boards wide range of perspectives and the Code.
backgrounds, and allows the board to look at the As has been highlighted elsewhere within this report, bigger picture of the Groups strategy, performance 2013 was a period of great change in our organisation, and value, whilst allowing the executive management following the appointment of John Fallon as chief to focus on what it does best driving our company executive at the start of the year.
I would like to take forward.
this opportunity to share with you some insights as to May 2013 saw the announcement of the new Pearson how our board and governance operations have Executive team.
You will have read elsewhere in this adapted throughout the year to take account of report about the new geographies and lines of business Pearsons focus on becoming one global education along which Pearson is now organised.
of these geographies and lines of business now sit on The Pearson board consists of senior executive the Pearson Executive, together with colleagues leading management alongside a strong group of non-executive the key enabling functions.
The board and I had the directors drawn from successful international pleasure of spending two days discussing strategy with businesses and education institutions with experience the Pearson Executive in October 2013, of which a of corporate strategy, education, emerging markets, little more later in the governance report.
We continually As a board we organise our work around four major assess and refresh the board to ensure we maintain themes where we believe we can add value: an appropriate balance and diversity of skills and governance, strategy, business performance and experience.
Our board calendar and agenda provide ample 2013 saw a number of changes in Pearsons time to focus on these themes and we have set out boardroom, reflecting both the new strategic direction some examples of the business considered by the of the business and our desire to maximise the valuable board, as well as the governance practices to which external experience which non-executive directors we adhere, on the pages that follow.
Executive directors Rona Fairhead We hope this report clearly sets out how your and John Makinson stepped down from the board in company is run, and how we align governance April and July respectively, although John remains part and our board agenda with the strategic direction of the Pearson family in his new role as chairman of of Pearson.
We always welcome questions or Penguin Random House.
In August we said goodbye to comments from shareholders, either via our website Susan Fuhrman, a non-executive director for nine years www.
com or in person at our annual and, at the end of December, Will Ethridge stepped shareholders meeting.
down from his executive position on the board and from his role as CEO of Pearson North American Education, although he will remain a valued adviser to the company during 2014.
Glen Moreno Chairman During the year we also welcomed Linda Lorimer and Harish Manwani to the board, as non-executive directors.
Linda and Harish bring a wealth of experience in the areas of education, digital initiatives and emerging markets, which reflect precisely those areas on which Pearson is now focused.
