Governance Corporate governance report Chairmans introduction The Board recognises that the highest standards of corporate governance are key to managing Pennon Group successfully in the best interests of its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Dear shareholder I am pleased to introduce the corporate governance report for 2013 on behalf of the Board.
The Annual Report continues to be the principal means of reporting to our shareholders on the Boards governance policies.
This Report sets out how the main and supporting principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Edition have been applied in practice.
The Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council FRC website www.
Ken Harvey, Chairman, Pennon Group Plc Role of the Board and its effectiveness This year the Board has received This ensures that we understand their needs My primary role as Chairman is to provide presentations from senior management and wishes and hopefully that we provide leadership to the Board and to provide on material developments in the businesses them with confidence that we have the the right environment to enable the Directors including waste and renewable energy right governance structures, processes and and the Board as a whole to perform policy developments: our energy from systems in place to assist us in achieving our effectively to promote the success of the waste plant projects: and regulatory stated objectives.
Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
and legislative changes proposed by In doing so we take account of the interests Ofwat and Government.
The Board has A regular dialogue with the Companys of our customers, employees, suppliers, also visited new plants under construction institutional shareholders is maintained communities in which we operate in the Greater Manchester area to obtain through a comprehensive investor relations and other interested stakeholders.
first hand knowledge of the projects.
During the year some 70 meetings with institutional shareholders I continue to firmly believe that we have good Remuneration and prospective shareholders were held governance in place and that we operate The Board and the Remuneration and attended by the Group Director effectively as a Board.
However there Committee remain mindful of shareholder of Finance and the Companys Investor is always room for improvement and each and Government concerns regarding Relations Manager.
The Chief Executive year we carry out a detailed performance companies remuneration practices.
of South West Water and the Chief Executive evaluation of the Board and each of the of Viridor also participated when appropriate.
Committees as well as of the Directors We have always pursued a remuneration The Group Director of Finance continues and the Group General Counsel & Company policy of setting pay at a level which to report to the Board regularly on major Secretary.
Further details of the review, is adequate to attract and retain high shareholders views about the Group which was again facilitated by an external calibre management and providing and every six months the Companys governance consultancy, are set out later incentives which are fully aligned with brokers give a presentation to the Board creating shareholder value.
I remain mindful of the need on equity market developments and to ensure that the Non-executive Directors reviewed our pay and benefits practice shareholder perceptions.
continue to have appropriate up to date again this year and are satisfied that no knowledge and understanding of both South changes are necessary to this policy.
I also actively encourage the participation West Water and Viridor as they develop of shareholders at our Annual General and pursue new initiatives.
Shareholder engagement Meeting and as usual at our 2013 Annual The Directors and I recognise the importance General Meeting on 1 August all our Directors and value of regular communications with intend to be present together with a number our shareholders.
of directors and executives of South West Water and Viridor to meet with shareholders to discuss the business of the Group.
60 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 Group overview South West Water Viridor Group Governance Financial statements To view our online annual report: www.
co. uk 2013 Contents of the corporate governance report 62 The Board of Directors 64 The Board and its Committees 64 The Directors, their independence and responsibilities 64 How the Board operates 65 Performance evaluation 65 Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest 65 Board Committees 65 Board Committees Terms of Reference 66 The Audit Committee 68 The Sustainability Committee 69 The Nomination Committee Compliance with UK 69 The Boards diversity policy Corporate Governance Code 70 Internal control and other requirements I am pleased to report that throughout 70 Wider aspects of internal control the year the Company complied with 70 Risk identification the provisions and applied the main principles 70 Internal control framework set out in the UK Corporate Governance 70 Internal control review Code 2010 Edition with no exceptions 70 Going concern to report.
The Code was revised in 70 Directors responsibilities statements September 2012 to apply to companies 71 Corporate governance statements financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012.
We believe we are also 72 Directors remuneration report compliant with the revised Code but 73 Remuneration policy for Executive it will not formally apply to our reporting Directors, including incentive plans, to shareholders until next year.
pensions and service contracts 73 Elements of remuneration My introduction to this corporate 77 Total shareholder return governance report and the following 77 Remuneration policy for the Chairman sections are made in compliance with and Non-executive Directors, including the UK Corporate Governance Code, contracts for services FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 and FSA Disclosure 78 Implementation of the remuneration policy and Transparency Rules 7.1 and 7.2 79 Executive Directors pensions and cover the work of our Board and its 79 Directors share interests Committees: our internal control systems 83 Single total figure table and procedures including risk management: 83 Basis of preparation our corporate governance statements relating to share capital and control: 84 Independent auditors report and our going concern and Directors responsibilities statements.
Ken Harvey Chairman 25 June 2013 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report 2013 61
