Board of Directors page 52 Corporate Governance Introduced by the Chairman Effective corporate governance is fundamental to the long-term sustainability and success of Perform.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Governance Report for 2013.
The Board fully supports the principles of good corporate governance and is committed to the continuous improvement and development of appropriate structures, processes and procedures throughout the Group to bring these principles to life.
Our entrepreneurial culture is complemented by a strong governance framework which facilitates co-ordination throughout the Group, delivers financial efficiency and enables effective risk management consistent with the principles of good corporate governance.
The Board is pleased to confirm its compliance with the UKCorporate Governance Code in all respects.
The Board recognises its responsibility to ensure that the Groups governance framework is focussed on improving the business, strengthening internal controls and managementprocesses.
As such, under Simon and Olis leadership this year, the Group has introduced an Executive Committee.
Simon and Oli are now supported by the Groups Chief Operating Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, General Counsel and the Managing Directors of the Groups Direct to Consumer and Content Distribution divisions and the APAC, EMEA and Americas regions as well as the Groups new Chief Personnel Officer who joined in March 2013.
In addition to optimising the allocation and adequacy of the Groups resources they are also able to leverage synergies and efficiencies across the Groups operations.
I am currently supporting Simon and Oli and the Groups Chief Personnel Officer in a rigorous search for the Groups new Chief Financial Officer, who, on appointment, will join the Groups Executive Committee and main board, as well as the Risk Committee.
As mentioned in my opening Chairmans statement, the Board are grateful to David Surtees for his six years service as Chief Financial Officer and wish him well.
I would also like to welcome Richard McMorris, the Groups General Counsel, as the Groups new Company Secretary.
Key to giving the Board confidence in the Groups approach to controls and risk is the effectiveness of the Groups external audit process.
Grant Thornton UK LLP had been the Groups auditor since 2005.
The Board, and Audit Committee, decided to issue a request for proposal for external audit and audit related services in light of the Groups continued growth and international expansion and due to the mandatory rotation of the Grant Thornton audit partner.
Following a thorough and rigorous process set out in the Audit Committee Report, Deloitte LLP were appointed as auditor.
Paul Walker Chairman 3 March 2014 50 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Financial Report Statements Corporate Governance The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to committees Perform Group plc Board Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Chief Executive Company Peter Williams Committee Committee Officers Secretary Chairman Marc Brown Paul Walker Simon Denyer Richard Marc Brown Chairman Chairman Oliver Slipper McMorris Peter Parmenter Peter Parmenter Marc Brown Gabby Logan Peter Williams Peter Parmenter Gabby Logan Peter Williams 3 Non-Executive Gabby Logan Directors Chairman 3 Non-Executive Directors Chairman 4 Non-Executive Directors Chairman Executive Committee Risk Committee Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Technology Officer General Counsel Chief Commercial Officer Chief Operating Officer General Counsel Chief Personnel Officer MD Direct to Consumer MD Content Distribution MD APAC MD EMEA MDAmericas Senior Management team Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
