Strategic Report Governance Financials Other information Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2013 35 High standards in corporate governance Chairmans corporate governance introduction Sound corporate governance standards During the course of the year the Board within the Group remain essential for the again held its annual strategy meeting, Groups future performance and its reputation.
undertaking a full review of the Companys Through the internal divisional and operating long term strategy, Capital Return Plan, Group business management structures the Board health and safety management policy and ensures that its standards and values are procedures, sales and marketing and principal communicated to all management and risks.
Further information on these matters is employees and implemented throughout available within the Strategic Report.
Following the Boards external evaluation The Boards continuing priority during in 2012 the Board has undertaken its own 2013 has been succession planning and in internal Board evaluation self assessment.
particular ensuring the smooth transition of The self assessment concluded that the Board Sound corporate responsibilities from Mike Farley, our outgoing and its Committees continued to be effective, Chief Executive who retired in April 2013, to which is particularly pleasing given the governance standards our new Chief Executive Jeff Fairburn.
retirement of Mike Farley and Neil Davidson and the appointment of Marion Sears, Nigel within the Group remain I am very pleased to report that the transition Greenaway and David Jenkinson to the Board has been seamless and the consequential essential for the Groups during the year.
changes to our senior management structure future performance and have been implemented successfully.
In the continuing evolution of Board membership the Nomination Committee its reputation I am very pleased to welcome Dave Jenkinson, remain aware of its obligations to encourage North Division Chief Executive to the diversity.
Whilst we have not set targets it is Nicholas Wrigley Board.
His appointment was announced on the Boards intention in the medium term Chairman 13 December 2013.
I am particularly pleased that the Boards composition reflects the that Persimmon has again been able to recommendations of the Davies Report.
promote from within, confirming its long term strategy of recruiting and promoting talent I am pleased to report that the Company has from within the Group.
Dave Jenkinson has complied with the UK Corporate Governance been with the Group since 1997.
We continue Code throughout 2013. to have an exceptional depth of housebuilding experience from the Executive Directors on the Board, which is complemented by the wide ranging experience of the NonNicholas Wrigley Executive Directors.
