Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2013 How have we responded to recent Dear shareholder governance developments?
I am pleased, once again, to present the ` Over the last few years, numerous reviews, Companys corporate governance report, I have every consultations and regulations have been allowing me the opportunity to outline our delivered and introduced both in the UK and objectives to achieving and maintaining the confidence across Europe, with the aim of developing highest standards of governance.
I believe that governance at both a corporate and national our governance framework is evident across that we can level.
While on occasion, the number the Group and, throughout this report, you will and extent of the changes has felt a little see examples of how we are endeavouring build on our overwhelming, we believe that the general to attain our corporate goals and sustain our trend is correct and that the majority of core values.
With our continuing commitment work to date changes should help to promote greater to ongoing shareholder engagement and accountability and enhanced disclosure.
the improvement and development of to ensure that Within the Company we have been actively good governance behaviours, I have every involved with, and responded to, a number confidence that we can build on our work the interests of these consultations, which we hope will to date to ensure that the interests of the help shape future regulation and legislation.
Directors, as stewards of the Company, of the During 2013, we concentrated on developing are aligned with those of investors and our response to the new directors other stakeholders.
Directors, as remuneration regulations, and to that end continued to participate in the Financial What is our approach stewards of Reporting Council FRC reporting lab.
In addition, we followed recent developments As a Jersey incorporated company with the Company, in relation to the role and reporting a premium listing on the London Stock requirements of audit committees as set out Exchange, Petrofac is required to report are aligned by the FRC and Lord Sharmans report on against the UK Corporate Governance risk and going concern.
After such an intense Code UK Code.
The UK Code sets out the with those period of governance developments, we hope standards of good practice in relation to board that companies will now be given a sustained leadership and effectiveness, accountability, ofinvestors.
period to embed the recent changes.
remuneration and relations with shareholders.
As Chairman, I take responsibility for providing This report, including the reports from our Board with the opportunity to consider all the Nominations, Audit, Board Risk and a governance developments and for ensuring Remuneration Committees, describes how that the Directors receive appropriate training the Company has applied all of the principles on relevant issues.
set out in sections A to E of the UK Code during the period under review.
In October 2013, two new pieces of legislation for UK incorporated companies to report The UK Code also introduced the obligation on company strategy and on directors for the Board to acknowledge its responsibility remuneration came into force.
As a Jersey for ensuring the annual report, when taken as incorporated company, this new legislation a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, does not apply to Petrofac, however as so that shareholders are provided with the you will see on pages 1 to 65 and pages necessary information to assess Company 92 to 113, where practicable we have performance and strategy.
The Companys endeavoured to comply with these changes auditors, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young, and have voluntarily taken the opportunity are required to review whether or not the to structure our Remuneration Report in corporate governance report reects the alignment with companies incorporated in the Companys compliance with the provisions UK.
Further information on the disclosures of the UK Code specified for their review by required by, and our compliance with, the new the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority directors remuneration regulations are set out and to report if it does not reect such within the Remuneration Report on page 93. compliance.
No such report has been made.
Copies of the UK Code are publicly available at www.
