GOVERNANCE 68 STRUCTURE AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairmans introduction to corporate governance New principles and provisions included in the UK Code applied Effective boards are essential to to Reed Elsevier for the first time during 2013.
The Boards have applied the changes in the UK Code and these are reflected in high standards of corporate the Report of the Nominations Committee and the Report of the Audit Committees.
In addition, regulations introducing a new governance and integral to the form Strategic Report and a revised Directors Remuneration Report also applied to Reed Elsevier for the first time.
sustainable success of Reed The Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 62, and the Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 78 to 94.
Elsevier over the long term.
During 2013, there were a number of changes to our Boards.
Details of these are set out in the Structure and Corporate The Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Governance section on page 71.
In September, Duncan Palmer, Elsevier Group plc are committed to high standards of corporate Chief Financial Officer, offered his resignation from the Boards as governance and believe that such standards are integral to the a result of family circumstances which unexpectedly required him success of Reed Elsevier.
The Boards have put in place policies to return to the US.
In January 2014, we announced that Nick Luff and procedures that promote transparency, accountability and would take over from Duncan at a date to be confirmed.
probity, and include the Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Biographical details for Nick can be found on page 71.
We will be Conduct which sets the standard for our corporate and individual asking shareholders to elect Nick as a Director, with effect from a behaviour.
The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all future date in 2014, at the forthcoming Annual General Meetings Directors and employees of Reed Elsevier and more information in April and more details of this are contained in the Notices of the on its application can be found in the Corporate Responsibility 2014 Annual General Meetings.
In accordance with the UK Code, we conducted, through the As Reed Elsevier is listed in the UK, the Netherlands and the US, Corporate Governance Committee, evaluations of the Boards, it is subject to corporate governance requirements in those their Committees and the performance of the individual Directors.
The following report describes Reed Elseviers The outcome of these evaluations confirmed that the Boards and governance structures and procedures, and the work of the the Committees continue to function effectively, and that all of Boards and their Committees.
It is intended to provide our Directors are committed to their roles.
More information shareholders with a clear view of Reed Elseviers governance regarding these evaluations is set out on page 70.
All the current arrangements and how Reed Elsevier has complied with the Directors will stand for re-election at the Annual General applicable corporate governance codes of best practice during Meetings in April 2014 and their biographical details are set out the year.
Statements with regard to compliance with corporate on pages 64 and 65. governance codes and in particular the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September Following the changes to the Boards during the year and given the 2012 the UK Code are set out on page 69. outcome of the evaluations of the Boards, their Committees and the individual Directors, I believe that the current composition Reed Elsevier keeps under review developments and trends in of the Boards and their Committees continues to provide an corporate governance.
During 2013, there were a number of appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, changes in the Netherlands and the UK which became effective: knowledge and diversity to ensure that they can discharge their In January 2013, legislation to formalise the unitary board duties effectively.
I also believe that the corporate governance structure in the Netherlands Civil Code was enacted.
The then arrangements in place are appropriate and continue to support Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV resolved to establish a the growth and success of Reed Elsevier.
unitary board and shareholders approved the necessary changes to the articles of association at the Annual General Meeting in April 2013.
The unitary board structure was Anthony Habgood implemented in May 2013 and further aligns the governance Chairman structures of the two parent companies.
26 February 2014 Percentage of the Areas of significant skills and expertise of the Non-Executive Directors on the Boards Non-Executive Directors Executive board experience in a large international listed company 63 Knowledge of corporate governance issues for listed companies 100 Operational experience in Reed Elseviers product markets 38 Operational experience in Reed Elseviers main geographical markets 100 Marketing, customer relations 88 Operational experience with telecommunication computer technology, electronic publishing 63 Management of human resources, selection and remuneration of executives 100 Corporate responsibility 100 Legal matters 88 Banking, tax and corporate finance 38 Financial and organisational audit 75 Corporate strategy and organisation 100 29275 SAS p063-077.
