Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rexam Annual Report 2013 45 Governance Chairmans Letter stuart Chambers Chairman The board delegates certain responsibilities to its committees to assist In my statement on page 2, I said it in carrying out its functions.
During 2013 our remuneration committee that one of my key responsibilities as commissioned a strategic review of the Companys remuneration arrangements to evaluate the remuneration policy in anticipation of shareholders being asked chairman of the Company is to promote to approve it at the annual general meeting AGM 2014.
Our audit and risk good governance, which is critical in committee has considered the Groups significant financial and business matters during the year: the completion of the sale of the Personal Care ensuring that we remain a successful business and the subsequent return of cash and share consolidation earlier in and sustainable company.
2013: and the financial and accounting impact of the sale of our Healthcare business.
Our nomination committee has considered talent and succession with The board sets the tone for the Company by the way in which it conducts itself, regard to the board and senior management, and agreed an action plan as its definition of success and its attitude to the assessment of appropriate risk to how diversity within senior management will be developed and delivered.
The board believes that good corporate governance is compliance with codes of practice together with a strong sense of value and Integrity and trust are more important than ever in todays business world desire to do what is right for employees, shareholders and all other stakeholders.
and I would like to give you my commitment that during 2014 the board will continue to provide leadership to the business as a whole and build upon the A key strength of our board lies in its diversity, across a range of measures, high standards of good governance that have been implemented to date.
including skills, experience, gender and nationality and this diversity has been further reinforced by the appointment during the year of Ros Rivaz as a non executive director.
Ros experience in technology, sustainability and IT systems, Stuart Chambers and her expertise in driving efficiencies in manufacturing processes and Chairman procurement will be of real value to Rexam.
During the year, the board spent time reviewing the Companys longer term strategy and direction and approved the divestment of the Companys Healthcare business as discussed in the Strategic report.
The divestment of this business will allow the Company to focus on being the best beverage can maker in the world, which the board is committed to achieve through its business model see page 12.
The board also continued its programme of visiting its overseas businesses and travelled to Egypt and Turkey to meet with local management and deepen the non executive directors understanding of CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE REPORT And dIRECTORs REPORT the day to day functioning of the beverage can business.
We also continued This corporate governance report and other statutory disclosures set out on to actively engage with our shareholders to explain our business model and pages 45 to 82 make up the directors report.
strategy, and the steps we are taking to deliver value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
UK CORPORATE GOvERnAnCE COdE COMPLIAnCE This corporate governance report has been prepared in accordance with I am pleased to be able to report that we made good progress against the the UK Corporate Governance Code published September 2012 the Code.
number of actions agreed following the 2012 board evaluation.
Our 2013 The Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC can be viewed externally facilitated board evaluation by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review on the www.
This report, together with the remuneration provided much positive and constructive feedback and we were able to report, describes how we have applied the main principles of the Code.
identify focus areas to ensure that the board continues to operate in an open and transparent way and constructively challenges and supports the executive It is the boards view that throughout the year 1January 2013 to team.
The board evaluation process and outcomes are more fully described 31December 2013 the Company has complied with the Code.
