Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman Dear Shareholder The law in Australia governs the benefits which can be given to the holders On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2013 directors of certain offices when they leave the employment of the Group.
The law is remuneration report the Remuneration Report, for which we seek your complex.
It affects our ability to apply the policies that are described in detail in support at our annual general meetings AGMs, in London in April, and in this report, and it also constrains our ability to treat our employees consistently.
So, as many other Australian companies have done, we are seeking approval of a termination benefits resolution.
I emphasise that if the resolution is passed we The Remuneration Report is designed to provide you with the necessary intend no change to our remuneration policies or practices, and in particular we information to demonstrate the link between our Groups strategy, its intend no increase in the amounts we pay on termination.
performance, and the remuneration outcomes for our executives, particularly the executive directors.
Last year our Remuneration Report received a vote in favour of 97 per cent at the AGMs.
Whilst the narrative of the Remuneration Policy has been updated With a view to sustaining returns to shareholders over time, Rio Tinto takes a to reflect the new regulations introduced for UK incorporated and listed long-term approach to its activities, and this means concentrating on companies, the substance of the policy remains unchanged from the one which developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations that are capable of received endorsement last year and which was applied in 2012 and 2013. providing competitive returns throughout business cycles.
Our executives performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Policy describes among other things: our executive remuneration structure: the details of the discretions available to the The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable Committee: our approach to remuneration on recruitment: the details legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
of executives service contracts and our treatment of leavers.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management personnel, being those persons having authority and responsibility for Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key of base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund and or management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director a cash allowance to contribute to a fund, the receipt of certain benefits, and members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee comprises performance-related remuneration, all as described in the Remuneration Policy.
the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group The majority of the remuneration will normally be performance-related, and executives.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the is provided in the form of variable short and long-term incentives.
Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are listed on pages 53 and 56, which also shows the positions held during the In relation to the short-term incentive plan STIP, the Committee each year year and dates of appointment.
sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, target and outstanding.
Target performance is intended to be stretching, and is typically Shareholders will be aware that we have to comply with UK and Australian equivalent to budget for the year.
legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules are different.
We have structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders vote on all four Our new long-term incentive plan LTIP was approved by shareholders resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
The views expressed by our owners during our extensive consultations in 2012 were instrumental in the design of the LTIP.
The This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of Committee intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive arrangements remuneration policy which summarises our policies and practices in the under review, taking into account, among other things, the views of our owners.
compensation arena the Remuneration Policy : and the annual report on This review will include the percentage of an award under the new Performance remuneration which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been applied Share Plan PSP that vests for threshold performance, recognising that this is the Implementation Report.
an important issue for some owners with whom we consulted.
In October 2013, the UK government introduced new legislation that gives I want to describe to you our policy relating to the disclosure of measures, shareholders a binding vote on a companys directors remuneration policy weightings and targets.
In relation to the LTIP, these will all be disclosed in and requires companies to communicate ever more clearly on how their advance, at the beginning of each five-year performance period.
In relation policies are being implemented.
I have described below the structure of the to the STIP, we will, when it comes to disclosure, distinguish between safety, voting arrangements.
As you will see in the pages that follow, an increased financial and individual goals.
In the area of safety goals, we will disclose the degree of disclosure and transparency has resulted from our adoption of this measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year.
In the area new legislation.
We hope that shareholders globally will benefit from our of financial and individual goals, we will, at the beginning of each year, enhanced reporting under the new UK legislation.
disclose the measures and weightings only, because we regard the targets as The Remuneration Policy is subject to a binding vote at our 2014 AGMs for commercially sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose targets and outcomes UK law purposes.
The Implementation Report including this statement is retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds subject to an advisory vote for UK law purposes.
As in previous years, the of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why and give an indication of Remuneration Report as a whole is subject to an advisory vote at the 2014 when they will be disclosed.
The measures, targets and performance against AGMs for Australian law purposes.
them for 2013 are disclosed in the Implementation Report.
For the purposes of the new UK regulations on remuneration reporting, The chart on page 91 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery of the Remuneration Policy will, if the resolution is passed, become effective the components of remuneration, using 2013 as an example.
This emphasises in respect of payments to directors from the date of the second of our AGMs.
the long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
In the absence of circumstances which may necessitate a change to the You will see in the Remuneration Report several mechanisms that are Remuneration Policy, it is our intention that it will next be put before intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and executives.
shareholders at our AGMs in 2017.
We have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of 50 per cent of any Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy, once approved annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vesting deferred for three by shareholders, will only apply to the remuneration of our directors, it is the years.
The performance measures under our long-term remuneration plans Committees intention that the broad policy principles will continue to inform are structured to support and incentivise the creation of long-term shareholder the way in which our non-director key management personnel on the Executive value.
In addition, we have reserved to the Committee such discretions as Committee are remunerated.
enable it, should circumstances warrant, to safeguard against the return 68 riotinto.
com reportingcentre2013 DIRECTORS REPORT: DIRECTORS REPORT: REMUNERATION REPORT: Letter from chairman FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT: Letter from chairman FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman experience of shareholders and the reward experience of executives being 2014 decisions Dear Shareholder materially misaligned.
We want the remuneration outcomes properly to The law in Australia governs the benefits which can be given to the holders The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for executives and, for reflect the Groups overall performance.
We have also increased share On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2013 directors of certain offices when they leave the employment of the Group.
The law is the executive directors and the majority of the Executive Committee, made ownership requirements for executives and these are described in the remuneration report the Remuneration Report, for which we seek your complex.
It affects our ability to apply the policies that are described in detail in adjustments in line with the base salary budgets applying to the broader Implementation Report.
support at our annual general meetings AGMs, in London in April, and in this report, and it also constrains our ability to treat our employees consistently.
So, as many other Australian companies have done, we are seeking approval of There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of how In one case, namely the chief executive, Copper, a further adjustment was a termination benefits resolution.
I emphasise that if the resolution is passed we our dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committees decisions.
The Remuneration Report is designed to provide you with the necessary made, taking into account individual performance and a base salary intend no change to our remuneration policies or practices, and in particular we We added, in 2013, a new performance measure to our PSP, the relative information to demonstrate the link between our Groups strategy, its significantly below internal and external peers.
intend no increase in the amounts we pay on termination.
EBIT margin improvement measure, because many of our owners had performance, and the remuneration outcomes for our executives, particularly The quantum of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2014 expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate some diversification beyond the executive directors.
Last year our Remuneration Report received a vote in favour of 97 per cent at is broadly similar to those awards made in 2013. total shareholder return.
We extended the performance period of the PSP the AGMs.
Whilst the narrative of the Remuneration Policy has been updated With a view to sustaining returns to shareholders over time, Rio Tinto takes a from four to five years and have materially reduced the pay-out for threshold to reflect the new regulations introduced for UK incorporated and listed Safety, cost reduction, capital expenditure and cash flow management will long-term approach to its activities, and this means concentrating on performance.
We have ceased using share options as a mechanism for longcompanies, the substance of the policy remains unchanged from the one which continue to feature prominently in the individual objectives for executives developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations that are capable of term reward.
We adjusted our safety measures in our STIP targets to reflect lost received endorsement last year and which was applied in 2012 and 2013. in 2014. providing competitive returns throughout business cycles.
Our executives time injuries and all injury frequency rates.
As you will see below, our decisions performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Policy describes among other things: our executive Further details are provided in the Implementation Report.
relating to base pay changes for executive directors and executives are now remuneration structure: the details of the discretions available to the broadly guided by pay changes for the wider employee population.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable Governance and owners views Committee: our approach to remuneration on recruitment: the details legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and Australia.
We know that there will never be perfect consensus among our owners of executives service contracts and our treatment of leavers.
2013 performance and remuneration Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key management about remuneration policy, and therefore that ultimately the Committee must In terms of STIP for 2013, the Committee determined that the Groups earnings personnel, being those persons having authority and responsibility for Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form make judgments based on its best assessment of supporting value creation.
and cash flow targets set by the board had been met.
This is reflected in the planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
The key of base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund and or However, it has been and will continue to be our intention to be alert to evolving financial component of the STIP awards at Group and product group level.
management personnel are, in addition to the directors, the non-director a cash allowance to contribute to a fund, the receipt of certain benefits, and best practice and to the views and guidance given to us in the conversations we members of the Executive Committee.
However, disappointingly, the Group neither met the all injury frequency targets have with you.
the executive directors, product group chief executive officers and Group set for the year, nor the threshold level of performance set for lost time injury The majority of the remuneration will normally be performance-related, and We continue to ensure that the Company meets regulatory and legislative executives.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the frequency rates.
This has led to low levels of payment of the safety component is provided in the form of variable short and long-term incentives.
remuneration requirements specified by Australian and UK regulation and, as Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are of the award for most executives.
Further reductions have also been applied as part of this, we held extensive meetings with shareholders and proxy advisory listed on pages 53 and 56, which also shows the positions held during the In relation to the short-term incentive plan STIP, the Committee each year required for executives with portfolios where a fatality has occurred.
bodies in Australia and the UK during 2012 to describe and explain our year and dates of appointment.
sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, target and Discretionary downward adjustments of between ten per cent and 40 per cent remuneration policies and practices in the context of the overall Group strategy.
Target performance is intended to be stretching, and is typically Shareholders will be aware that we have to comply with UK and Australian of the STIP award have been applied to the chief executive, the current and equivalent to budget for the year.
In preparing the Remuneration Report we have been informed by the directors legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules are different.
We have former chief financial officers, the former Group executive Technology & remuneration reporting guidance issued jointly by GC100, the Association of structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders vote on all four Our new long-term incentive plan LTIP was approved by shareholders Innovation and the chief executive Aluminium for the project cost overrun in General Counsel and Company Secretaries of the FTSE 100 and Investor Group resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
The views expressed by our owners during our extensive relation to the Kitimat modernisation project.
consultations in 2012 were instrumental in the design of the LTIP.
The This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of The net effect of these outcomes, also taking into account the achievement Committee intends to keep the Groups long-term incentive arrangements We are committed to a continuing dialogue with our owners.
remuneration policy which summarises our policies and practices in the of individual objectives, is that STIP awards for Executive Committee members under review, taking into account, among other things, the views of our owners.
compensation arena the Remuneration Policy : and the annual report on have been made in a range from below target to above target levels.
I am very conscious of the fact that this Remuneration Report runs to This review will include the percentage of an award under the new Performance remuneration which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been applied 40 pages, 6 pages longer than last year given the impact of the new UK law Share Plan PSP that vests for threshold performance, recognising that this is The Committee considered the Groups overall performance in the context the Implementation Report.
We try to balance the need for a simple narrative of the years an important issue for some owners with whom we consulted.
of the LTIP awards that were due to vest at the end of 2013, namely the 2010 remuneration events with the appetite of many of our stakeholders for more In October 2013, the UK government introduced new legislation that gives award under the PSP, which had an indicative vesting of 75 per cent of face I want to describe to you our policy relating to the disclosure of measures, detail.
Please tell us how you think we might improve it.
shareholders a binding vote on a companys directors remuneration policy value, and the 2011 grant under the Share Option Plan, which has an indicative weightings and targets.
In relation to the LTIP, these will all be disclosed in and requires companies to communicate ever more clearly on how their vesting of 100 per cent of face value.
The Committee concluded that the Yours sincerely, advance, at the beginning of each five-year performance period.
I have described below the structure of the vesting of awards based upon the achievement of the TSR measures set by to the STIP, we will, when it comes to disclosure, distinguish between safety, voting arrangements.
As you will see in the pages that follow, an increased shareholders was justified.
In the area Further details are provided in the Implementation Report.
However, we intend to disclose targets and outcomes John Varley UK law purposes.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds Remuneration Committee chairman subject to an advisory vote for UK law purposes.
enable it, should circumstances warrant, to safeguard against the return 69 69 riotinto.
