Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Rolls-Royce Holdings plc annual report 2013 35 DIRECTORS REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION We will regularly review and develop our governance arrangements to ensure that the right decisions are made by the right people.
Ian Davis Chairman We require high standards of ethical behaviour wherever we do As Chairman, I am responsible for leading the Board and for business and for that behaviour to be second nature for every ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
With over 55,000 employees operating in many business governance is vital to this and I was reassured, when I joined sectors, regions and cultures across the world, we are well aware Rolls-Royce, to find a robust governance foundation already in place.
that this is not something that can be achieved overnight but only by The challenge ahead is to build upon this foundation and ensure relentless pursuit over time.
Further details on ethics related matters that the Groups values trusted to deliver excellence apply not just can be found in the ethics committee report on pages 49 and 50. to our products but also to the way that we conduct and govern our business.
Remuneration Governance structure Our remuneration report reflects the new reporting regulations.
In November, I led a discussion on governance with the nonAt the 2014 AGM shareholders shall, for the first time, have the right executive directors.
We will regularly review and develop our to vote on the policy section of the remuneration report separately governance arrangements to ensure that the right decisions are and that vote is binding.
The remuneration report can be found on made by the right people.
At the 2014 AGM, we will be proposing to renew our long-term My instinct from my discussions to date is to allow as much time incentive plan, the Performance Share Plan PSP.
We are also taking as possible at Board meetings for discussion on strategic and the opportunity to ask shareholders to approve our Deferred Share operational issues.
With regard to committees, I have concluded that Bonus Plan.
Further details are set out in the remuneration report.
merging the work of the separate safety and ethics committees into one broader-based safety and ethics committee will give greater I believe that Rolls-Royce benefits from a strong Board though we focus to our sustainability agenda.
will continue to look for opportunities to further strengthen and I agree with the Association of British Insurers ABI that good diversify, as discussed in the nomination committee report on governance enhances a companys sustainable performance and page 47.
I look forward to continuing to work with and support so helps underpin long-term economic growth.
Sustainability has to my colleagues at Rolls-Royce as we face the challenges and be part of everything we do if our business is to endure in the long opportunities ahead.
Further details on sustainability are on pages 26 to 29.
We Ian Davis must provide excellent products which are safe, reliable, kinder to Chairman the environment and provide the right solutions for our customers at the right price.
We can only endure if we are trusted by the world to deliver excellence in everything we do.
Board changes During the year, Sir Simon Robertson retired as Chairman and Peter Byrom and Ian Strachan retired as non-executive directors at the conclusion of the AGM on 2 May 2013.
I was appointed as a nonexecutive director on 1 March 2013 and was appointed Chairman on 2 May 2013.
Lee Hsien Yang and Warren East were appointed as non-executive directors on 1 January 2014.
Having served for nine years as a non-executive director, Iain Conn has decided to retire and will not be standing for re-election at the AGM on 1 May 2014. Business ethics In January 2013, we appointed Lord Gold to lead a review of our compliance procedures.
Lord Gold presented an interim report to the Board in July 2013, having spent time immersing himself in the culture and systems of the Company.
