Rotork plc Annual Report 2013 46 Corporate governance Statement from Chairman The continuing success of Rotork, its During 2013, we also rolled out a RogeR lockwood reputation in its markets and its comprehensive anti-bribery and corruption chaiRman relationships with its stakeholders is training programme to all directors dependent on and safeguarded by the including non-executive directors, leadership provided by an effective board.
managers, senior finance personnel and Good corporate governance supports the those employees who deal with customers effectiveness of your board and contributes or suppliers.
This equates to approximately towards the long-term success of our one third of the workforce.
requires all users to successfully pass a test.
Taken together with the successful Our corporate governance report is set out completion of the rollout of our revised on pages 46 to 55 and describes the roles, whistleblowing policy and independent accountabilities and expectations for our hotline, this underscores the importance of directors and Board structures.
We are the ethics and values policy of the Group subject to the UK Corporate Governance and ensures it continues to be firmly Code Code and whilst ensuring we embedded and understood across the provide detailed reporting, we have sought Group.
to place emphasis on explaining how the principles of the Code are applied across I believe that good corporate governance, our group.
A summary of the business the when properly applied, supports and Board considered during 2013 is also set protects our business and its long term out opposite.
I am pleased to report that success by creating a link, based on trust throughout 2013, we complied with the and engagement, between Rotork and its 2010 and 2012 versions of the Code in all stakeholders.
It is important for governance respects.
to focus on the entire organisation and at Rotork we seek to apply it across our Corporate governance highlights for 2013 activities worldwide in a consistent and include responding to Lord Davies call for unified way to create and maintain the right action by setting out a number of specific culture throughout our Group.
I believe this actions and targets to improve gender allows us to produce a better business.
The Board Rotorks products and services are offered in has also developed a diversity policy which many markets and territories and we is applicable to the whole of the Group.
recognise that our business activities affect a These are detailed in the Corporate diverse range of stakeholders.
With that in Governance Report on pages 50 and 55. mind, we must ensure that we consistently Throughout the year, the Remuneration do things the right way through a unified Committee held a number of additional approach.
Our corporate governance meetings to consider the requirements of arrangements underpin this by ensuring that the new remuneration reporting our people know not just what to do, but regulations and more details of this can be how to do it.
found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69.
