Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance The Board of the Company is committed to ensuring that it provides One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the effective leadership and promotes uncompromising ethical standards.
Board and nding this balance between individuality and team behaviour One of the ways in which the Board achieves this is by requiring that is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive good governance principles and practices are adhered to throughout directors.
In our circumstances as a holding company for a number of businesses, the reduced Board size works effectively and an appropriate the Company.
The Board determined that the following is a helpful summary of its role: balance is struck.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a Good corporate governance is about helping to run the Company well.
successful Board should, ideally, be composed of a group of respected, It involves ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems experienced, like-minded but diverse people who coalesce around a and controls is put in place which clearly defines authority and common purpose of promoting the long-term success of the Company, accountability and promotes success whilst permitting the management provide a unied vision of the denitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise of risk to appropriate levels.
It involves the exercise of judgement as to the denitions of success, the appropriateness of risk and the levels at times but encourage all the time and who create confidence in all of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of processes A Board meeting should feel like a meeting at which everyone is and assumptions as well as outcomes.
participating to solve problems together.
Above all, all participants It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views should be able to say after a Board meeting that value has been added as a result of the meeting taking place.
This added value will come in of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
many forms: challenge, advice, clarity, imagination, support, sharing of problems, or creating strategic intent.
The list is not exhaustive.
The executive team is required to provide such information to the Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over Board membership is for 365 days of the year.
do not start and end with formal meetings.
Board members, on the Companys and their own initiative, should endeavour to engage outside There is a very ne distinction between the approval of processes and of meetings to bring their experience to the assistance of the executive their denition.
Wherever possible it is the role of the Board to approve team whenever possible.
process rather than initiate or define it.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
Above all there should be a sense of value added from the engagement of the Board members in all their interaction with the Company, formal The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it or otherwise.
conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its denitions of success and the assessment of appropriate risk, all define the atmosphere within To enhance its performance and effectiveness, the Board sets itself which the executive team works.
explicit objectives, which are separate from objectives set for the Company and for the Chief Executive, following the outcome of the Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice Board appraisal process for the prior year.
In relation to the objectives for although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good the year ended 30 September 2013, the Board has regularly monitored governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what its performance against these and has found this process adds value.
One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the non-executive directors.
Equally, executive directors who just Donald Brydon CBE, Chairman toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to nd the right balance between hearing the collective executive view and being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team.
58 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2013
