Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors Report Remuneration Report The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees In accordance with the Companys policy, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which is designed to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
How the element Operation of Maximum potential Performance metrics supports our strategic the element value and payment used, weighting and objectives at threshold time period applicable To attract Non-Executive The fees of the Chairman are Over the policy period, base Non-Executive Director fees are Directors with the necessary determined and approved by fees for current Non-Executive not performance related.
experience and ability to make the Remuneration Committee Directors will be set at an a substantial contribution to excluding Chairman and fees appropriate level within the peer the Groups affairs.
of the Non-Executive Directors, group and increases will typically are determined and approved be broadly in line with market.
The base fees or fees for The Chairman receives a base fee.
specific Non-Executive Directors roles may be reviewed at any The following fees are paid to time based on the anticipated Non-Executive Directors responsibility and time in addition to their base fee: commitment involved.
SID fee Current fee levels are shown in Committee Chairmanship fee the section on implementation Committee membership fee of policy.
Fees are reviewed on an annual basis against a relevant peer group and taking into consideration market practice.
An allowance is payable to directors for attendance at meetings outside their country of residence where such meetings involve inter-continental travel.
In addition, reasonable travel and business related expenses are paid.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive incentives and pension.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
