Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 47 Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder At Severn Trent, we are committed to delivering value to our stakeholders and building a sustainable business, which is underpinned by good governance.
As a board we are accountable to shareholders for ensuring that effective governance processes are in place and complied with.
The boards role is to: F understand and meet its obligations to the companys stakeholders: F govern the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed: F approve the groups strategic objectives: and F ensure that sufficient resources are available to enable it to meet those objectives.
Andrew Duff Good governance provides a framework that allows the right decisions to be taken by Chairman the right people at the right time.
During the year I led the review of our boards effectiveness and looked at how we Governance in Severn Trent have made progress with the areas identied as requiring further improvement at the last review.
We have overseen the continued embedding of our Code of Conduct The way we are structured across our businesses and reviewed our supporting policies.
F Our organisation is structured to allow for effective and efficient decision making The following sections of this report set out how good governance supports our with clear accountabilities.
activities at Severn Trent and describe how the board applies the principles of the The way we choose to behave UKCorporate Governance Code in the way we are structured, the way we choose F Our Code of Conduct: Doing the right tobehave and the way we ensure our effectiveness.
thing The Severn Trent way sets I believe that assessing our governance arrangements in terms of these headings outourapproach to responsible enables us to establish the right long term behaviours, which will help us to deliver the businessbehaviours.
groups strategic objectives in a sustainable manner.
F The Code of Conduct is supported by 15 group policies and our behaviours model.
I rmly believe that we will continue to deliver value and achieve sustainable growth Further details of these can be found on for our company through the successful mix of good governance, a clear strategy with our website www.
com a supporting business plan and a strong management team to execute it.
The way we ensure our effectiveness F We always look to ensure our people havethe right skills in order to drive performance improvement.
Andrew Duff F Management assurance is provided by Chairman acombination of effective management processes and risk and compliance activities.
F Independent assurance is provided primarily by Internal Audit, by our external Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code auditors and other external bodies.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Governance Code was revised by thepublication of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 in September 2012.
Thenew code applies to financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2012, although we intend to comply early with the new code where appropriate and reasonably practicable.
Our formal obligation for 2013 is to report how we have applied the principles of the current Governance Code.
The Governance Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
For the whole of the financial year ended 31 March 2013, SevernTrent was compliant with the Governance Code, with the exception thatthe adequacy of arrangements in relation to the companys whistleblowing procedures falls within the remit of the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, ratherthan theAudit Committee.
The CR Committees remit is to deal with any allegations fromemployees relating to any breaches under Severn Trents Code ofConduct.
TheAudit Committee reviews reports of matters arising in respect of nancialor internal control matters from the companys whistleblowing procedures and the companys procedures for preventing and detecting fraud and bribery, and receivesreports on non-compliance.
The board considers that these arrangements areappropriate.
