58 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance continued Chairmans introduction Bringing governance to life High standards of corporate governance are central to sustaining our business and maintaining the confidence of our shareholders.
Bill Whiteley Chairman We believe that good governance is As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility A further area of focus in 2013 was a review about managing the business effectively for the Groups performance and for of our arrangements with our external and in a way that is honest, transparent overseeing the management of risk.
Following revisions to the Code and accountable.
We acknowledge that shareholders look recommending that the external audit is put to us to promote the long-term success of out to tender at least every 10 years, the On the following pages, we set out our the Group and, as Chairman, I recognise Board has determined that, after over 50 approach to governance, explain how the that it is my role to provide the leadership years with KPMG Audit Plc acting as our Board and its Committees are structured to enable it to do so effectively.
In 2012 the auditor, we change and appoint Deloitte LLP.
and what they have done during the year.
effectiveness of the Board was subject to Good corporate governance has always an externally facilitated independent review Our Governance report explains how been an important matter for the Board and, by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review the Group has applied the principles and combined with our clear and consistent Limited.
In 2013, as part of our annual Board complied with the provisions of the UK strategy, the Group is well equipped to effectiveness review, the Board monitored Corporate Governance Code 2010 and continue generating value for shareholders.
1 progress with the recommendations 2012 Code.
We are fully compliant with the We will continue to live good governance in made by Dr Long.
I am pleased to report requirements of the Code.
Compliance with everything we do.
I look forward to meeting that we have followed through with a the Code is set out in detail on the Group's you at our AGM onTuesday, 20thMay 2014. comprehensive set of actions in respect website, www.
The Board takes seriously its responsibility Regulatory disclosures required under DTR for promoting the Groups values and, in 7.2.
6 can be found on page 97. particular, for ensuring that all employees In his introduction to the Remuneration and everyone associated with the Group are report, on pages 73 and 74, Dr Rajagopal, aware of their responsibility to act lawfully the Remuneration Committee Chairman, and conduct themselves in accordance discusses our forward-looking policy on with high standards of business integrity.
remuneration, which will be subject to a These values are embedded in our Group binding shareholder vote at our Annual Management Code.
A strong anti-corruption General Meeting AGM in May 2014 culture has long been at the centre of the and thereafter at least every three years.
In 2013 we significantly The Annual report on remuneration improved our compliance programme.
2013 sets out the details of executive This included i over 2,800 employees compensation throughout 2013, which will participating in anti-bribery training using a be subject to the normal advisory vote at specialised anti-bribery@work programme, the AGM.
ii the issue of a new Sanctions, Embargoes and Restrictions Policy and Guide to ensure During 2013 we continued our active compliance with UN, USA and UK laws, dialogue with our principal investors and and iii the intended roll-out of a Behavioural shareholder representative bodies to ensure Based Safety programme.
that we understand their views.
1 Compliance statement The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ended 31st December 2013, but the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are made in relation to the predecessor edition of the code, issued in June 2010.
This Annual Report and Accounts addresses the requirements of both editions ofthe Code.
Our governance Chairmans introduction Board of Directors Corporate governance report Audit Committee Nomination Committee Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 The Boardroom Chairman Executive Directors Independent Non-Executive Directors Nick Anderson David Meredith Neil Daws Jay Whalen Group Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Director EMEA Executive Director WMPG Engineering Finance and accounting Manufacturing Sales and marketing International Engineering Engineering Engineering Broad operational Pensions Broad operational International business experience experience development Bill Whiteley Chairman Senior management experience Engineering International 1 Krishnamurthy Rajagopal Gareth Bullock Trudy Schoolenberg Clive Watson Independent Senior Independent Director Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Remuneration Banking Engineering Finance Product development Tax and treasury Risk Engineering Senior management Oil and petrochemical Engineering International experience The bullets in each box indicate areas of experience.
1 Mr Bullock is retiring and will not seek re-election at the AGM.
We are actively recruiting a new independent Non-Executive Director to be appointed before the AGM.
Risk Management Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Annual report on Regulatory disclosures Statement of Committee letter of introduction report 2014 remuneration 2013 Directors responsibilities 3.
