SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Chairmans introduction Chairmen are encouraged to report personally in their annual statements how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the board have been applied.
UK Corporate Governance Code, 2012 Alex Walker Chairman Dear Shareholder, At each Board meeting the executive directors update the Board on market trends and conditions together with the Companys In the revised UK Corporate Governance Code issued in September performance against the one year plan and, where necessary, present 2012, company chairmen were encouraged to relate the role and revised forecasts which are again openly challenged and debated.
effectiveness of their companys board to the opening sections of the Consideration of the significant risks that affect the Company, both Code dealing with leadership and effectiveness so allow me to take this internal and external, their mitigation and the effectiveness of internal opportunity of so doing.
control is an essential component of corporate governance and these issues are deliberated by the Board at meetings throughout the year.
During 2013, your Board continued to focus on strategy and business development, with a dedicated strategy summit held at Further details of the Boards activities during the year can be found our Germantown, MD facility in May.
We reviewed and analysed on page 49 of this Report.
market conditions and technology trends and openly debated issues such as risk, strategic direction and allocation of product As discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43 of this development investment.
It is critical that as a Board we have a deep Annual Report, 2013 marks a turning point for the Company and in understanding of, and remain close to, our businesses and regular response to the challenges experienced we have undertaken a radical site visits give us the opportunity to talk directly with Spirents reorganisation of the activities within Spirent.
Your Board are confident employees and also its customers.
that, in our Executive Directors, we have two highly-skilled, capable individuals who we are pleased to have had the opportunity to work Prior to the start of each financial year the Board reviews and approves with.
Eric and Rachel, while both relatively new to their current roles, managements plan for the coming year, making sure that stretching have deep knowledge and experience of the Company, its operations but realistic targets are put in place.
The priorities for discussion this and history.
They are both committed to delivering an agile, responsive year were revenue growth, margins, earnings growth and cash Spirent and I look forward to the Board playing a full and constructive generation some of our key performance indicators as set out more role in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and fully on pages 18 to 19 as well as ensuring that sufficient investment overall commercial objectives.
is made in product development opportunities so that Spirents one year plan aligns with its long term strategy.
44 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The role of chairman is a vital one.
We can provide a sounding board It is a failing of our industry as a whole that technology companies for our non-executive directors, while also maintaining a dialogue have a tendency to live in a world of jargon and acronym and every year with our executive directors, so that the boards focus and debate we make an extra effort to present our Annual Report in a way that is can be developed both within the boardroom and also between accessible to all our stakeholders.
The glossary on pages 140 to 142 meetings.
Board effectiveness should not just be about ticking goes some way to help on the technology side, but we also work to boxes on a checklist: just as important is a robust culture of make our Corporate Governance and Financial Statements clearer.
openness and respect, which I have certainly been witness to It is not just in order to comply with the UK Corporate Governance at Spirent board meetings.
Code that we strive for our Annual Report to be fair, balanced and understandable: if we are truly to help the world connect, we As a Board, we are conscious of our obligations to think deeply, must do as we say in all our areas of communications.
thoroughly and on a continuing basis regarding our duties.
Our Non-executive Directors do so from a strong position of independence, scrutinised on a regular basis by reflecting specifically on the definition of independence contained within the Code.
Our Executive Directors also must challenge their teams to encourage this positive debate throughout the Company.
Spirent is fortunate to have Non-executive Board members with extensive experience in areas critical to the long term future success Alex Walker of the Company, covering a deep understanding of our industry, Chairman technology, corporate strategy, finance and investment.
27 February 2014 This experience enables the Non-executives to add entrepreneurial leadership, with open and rigorous debate that provides a valuable external and balanced perspective to the proceedings.
We believe that our Board members complement each other, delivering a broad and appropriate balance of skills.
Biographical details of our directors can be found on pages 46 to 47 of this Report.
We are well aware that Spirents greatest resource is its employees: Spirents people create and drive our innovation.
The Board will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that we appoint the best people for the relevant roles and recognise the importance and benefits of greater diversity both at Board level and throughout the Group and will take this into account when considering any particular appointment.
As I have already mentioned, our new Chief Executive Officer and new Chief Financial Officer have both been internal promotions who have extremely detailed knowledge of the Companys operations.
The Board receives updates on developments in market trends, developments in law, corporate governance and best practice and are actively encouraged to ask questions or seek training on any matter they feel could advantage them and the Board.
A fuller description of induction and development can be found on page 51 of the Report.
The Board are in agreement with the recommendation of the Code that all directors should be submitted to re-election at regular intervals and, indeed, all Spirent directors have stood for re-election since 2011.
