Governance Chairmans introduction to SSE corporate governance High standards of High standards of corporate governance the outcome was satisfactory, but as are key to running SSE as a successful, always with some helpful suggestions corporate governance responsible and sustainable company, for improvement.
This is covered in more are key to running capable of delivering increases in the detail in the How the Board works section dividend payable to shareholders in see page 72, but I would like to highlight SSE as a successful, the short, medium and long term.
that the external facilitators, PwC, felt responsible and the review was approached in an open sustainable company, Our Report for 2012 13 explains SSEs and engaging way by the Directors and approach to corporate governance with that in their opinion the Board should capable of delivering separate reports being included on each feel confident that it is effective.
The increases in the dividend of the Board Committees.
I would like to suggestions from their report are being payable to shareholders focus on five specific areas.
implemented to ensure we continue to improve.
in the short, medium Board changes and long term.
First of all, I would like to explain some Time commitment of non-Executives important changes to the Board.
I have I have commented in previous years on the paid tribute to the outstanding service of commitment of our non-Executive Directors our Chief Executive, Ian Marchant, who to SSE over and above attendance at Board is stepping down on 30 June 2013 and is and Committee meetings.
During 2012 13 being replaced by Alistair Phillips-Davies.
this has continued to be the case: in fact The Board reached the unanimous decision it has been greater than ever before.
Our that Alistair should be appointed as Chief non-Executive Directors have visited sites Executive.
This had the full support of the throughout SSE, including power stations, Nomination Committee, which recognised gas storage facilities, major capital project both the desire for continuity and Alistairs sites, and our office-based facilities such significant experience, having carried out as customer service centres.
The feedback an extensive benchmarking exercise.
The from these visits is given to the Board, role of Gregor Alexander is being expanded and I believe our employees are genuinely to include responsibility for Regulation and appreciative of the opportunity to meet the Energy Portfolio Management.
The Board non-Executive Directors and explain our will then comprise two Executive Directors, range of businesses in more detail.
five independent non-Executive Directors, and myself as Chairman.
We continue to Transparent reporting consider carefully the independence of Lastly, I am pleased to report that SSE won non-Executive Directors, Board diversity, the 2012 PwC Building Public Trust Award and succession planning, and this is for Executive Remuneration Reporting in explained in more detail in this report.
This is the second time in three years that we have won this, and UK Governance Code I believe it demonstrates our continuing We are reporting against the UK Corporate commitment to an open and transparent Governance Code the Code which was approach to reporting.
I am pleased to report that SSE has complied with all the Lord Smith of Kelvin relevant provisions of the Code throughout Chairman the year ending 31 March 2013.
21 May 2013 A new edition of the Code was published in September 2012.
The changes in the new edition covers matters such as Audit Committee requirements, audit contract tendering, business and financial reporting and diversity and inclusion.
We will be reporting under the new Code in next years Annual Report.
However, we have already taken steps to comply with the new requirements in relation to diversity and inclusion.
Board evaluation Lord Smith of Kelvin We carried out an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board this year, and 61
