Governance Corporate governance statement Dame Helen Alexander Chairman Chairmans introduction Board structure The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the Dear Shareholder, management and governance of UBM.
The primary function of theBoard is to set and oversee the effective implementation The Board and I are committed to promoting good governance ofUBMs strategy.
throughout UBM and demonstrate this commitment by the way in which we conduct our business and carry out our responsibilities.
During 2013 there were nine Board members: the Chairman independent on appointment, two Executive and six NonWe support the drive to improve transparency and accountability Executive Directors.
Alan Gillespie is the Senior Independent which is being introduced through regulatory change.
As UBMs shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, we are As part of our process of reviewing and refreshing Committee subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority which membership, we have recruited a new Non-Executive Director, encompass the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
In 2013, JohnMcConnell, who joined the Board in January 2014 see page 35 we were required to measure compliance against the Code as for further information.
published in 2012: this can be found on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
The Board benefits from the wide range of experience of its Non-Executive Directors: their tenure ranges from one month to In this review we explain how the Board applies the principles of the over 12 years, as shown on pages 34 and 35.
Code in a way that contributes to the effectiveness of its operation.
Following the appointment of Karen Thomson as an additional We regularly review the independence of our Non-Executive member of the Remuneration Committee in February in accordance Directors, primarily considering the personal qualities demonstrated with Code provision D. 2.1, we complied with all provisions of Section by each Director, particularly their judgement and thinking and the 1 of the Code during 2013. level of engagement and challenge that they provide in Board and Committee discussions.
We also take account of the factors The sale of the Delta data services businesses during 2013 has specifically identified in section B.
1.1 of the Code as potentially simplified UBMs structure and operations, and has enabled us to relevant in determining independence.
We consider all our make good progress in refining our policies and procedures to Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
support good governance across UBM.
My view is that good governance underpins good performance, and I believe we should seek the highest standards.
In particular, this means creating a culture in the boardroom of respect, challenge andtrust.
Dame Helen Alexander Chairman 36 UBM plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
