LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Dear Shareholders As a result of the comprehensive Operational Review Additionally, we expanded the mandate of our Nomination undertaken in 2013, we took a number of positive steps committee.
Going forward, this committee will serve as the that improved operating ef!ciency and reduced costs.
Put Nomination and Governance committee and will support simply, these actions changed the way we run the business and guide the Board in the formulation and adoption of and will deliver long-term bene!ts to shareholders.
This Company corporate governance policies and procedures.
"unrelenting focus on excellence was further re""ected in The responsibilities for both the Environment, Health, Safety changes made over the course of the year to the Boards and Security committee and the Technical committee composition and focus, along with enhancements to certain remain unchanged."
Both of these committees play core governance committees.
important roles in the oversight and review of key environmental, social, safety, development and technical One of my primary objectives since becoming Chairman areas relevant to our business.
has been to identify opportunities to build on the diversity, strength and calibre of the Board.
We collectively view this All members of the Board and its committees completed as vital to maintaining the Boards ability to support and an annual performance and effectiveness evaluation for the guide management.
reporting period to satisfy the annual performance evaluation requirements of the UK Corporate Governance In April, we appointed Peter Tomsett and Graham Clow as Code.
All evaluations were concluded positively, showing independent Non-Executive Directors.
They are both highly that the Board and its committees are performing ef!ciently experienced industry veterans, with Peter having previously and effectively.
The Company also completed and achieved been CEO of Placer Dome, and Graham currently being a satisfactory conclusion to its annual risk management Chairman of Roscoe Postle Associates.
Peter was also and internal controls assessment, further details of which appointed Senior Independent Director, a position which are provided on page 46. had previously been vacant.
In October, we strengthened our commercial, !financial and cost-control capacities with Looking forward the appointment of Steve Lucas and Rachel English as In 2014, the Board will seek to build upon the progress additional independent Non-Executive Directors.
Our new made in ABGs governance and controls environment, Directors have made immediate contributions to the Board notably through implementing further measures and and I am pleased to welcome them to ABG.
procedures to support business reviews and initiatives.
2013 key activities During 2013 the Board also reviewed the composition of all Board committees and their respective responsibilities, in line with developments in UK Corporate Governance practices.
"Our review resulted in enhanced responsibilities for the Audit committee and the Compensation committee, Kelvin Dushnisky, which respectively re""ect the additional requirements Chairman of the Board placed on audit committees under the most recent edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code and new requirements relating to remuneration policies."
Ambassador Juma V. Mwapachu Stephen Galbraith, Steve Lucas 6.
