Vesuvius plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans Governance Letter Strong corporate governance is central to the delivery of sustainable long-term shareholder value Dear Shareholder, Evaluation Risk We undertook an externally moderated Alongside every successful strategy has to be 2013 was the first full year in which the Board, evaluation of the Board, its committees and the management of the risks that come with supported by our management team, embraced individual Directors towards the end of 2013. its execution.
During the year we re-examined the governance responsibilities that come I am delighted to report that the overall outcome how we identify and analyse risk, so that major with being an independent public company.
from the evaluation was that the Board and its issues are identified across the Groups business.
It was a year in which narrative reporting was individual Directors are performing effectively, The methods by which we manage our risks and significantly updated, with new disclosure that the Board is well supported and presents assess their impact will be reviewed again in requirements on strategic issues, remuneration an open forum for debate.
Arising out of the 2014. and audit matters.
For the first time we cover our evaluation, the primary areas for future focus approach to human rights see the Corporate Looking Ahead were succession planning and ensuring that we Responsibility section from page 39, and the In 2014 we will take the messages that came spend adequate time on strategy, particularly identification our own greenhouse gas emissions out of the external evaluation to build on in the light of the increasing and evolving including case studies showing the major existing Board practices, and develop our governance and compliance obligations placed impact we have in reducing our customers stewardship of the Company and its overall on all listed companies.
CO emissions see the Sustainability section governance.
We will continue to develop both as 2 on page 44.
We welcome the opportunity that Succession a Board and as individual Directors, and we look these changes give us to continue to explain The Board is content with its current composition forward to contributing towards and overseeing the Vesuvius story and how we approach the but will continue to keep succession under the development of Vesuvius over the next year management of our business.
In 2014 the primary focus will be on and beyond.
Executive Director and senior management Board Yours sincerely succession and, as part of the Boards overall Following the changes at the demerger, in review of strategy, this will be a key area for 2013 we continued to shape our Board for the further development.
John Sussens and Jan Oostervelt retired Chairman at the 2013 AGM, and we thank them for their Training 4 March 2014 considerable contribution to the successful startAs part of its training and development remit, up of Vesuvius plc.
Nelda Connors joined the the Board visited operations in China, and during Board in March 2013, Jane Hinkley took over the the year had discussions with our advisers on Chair of the Remuneration Committee following the capital structure of the Group, returns to the AGM and Jeff Hewitt became our Senior shareholders, strategy, and anti-bribery and Independent Director, continuing as Chairman corruption issues.
I also continued to develop of the Audit Committee.
I chair the Nomination my wider understanding of the business with Committee other than when the committee is visits to operations in Germany, Poland, Belgium, considering my successor.
We each report on South Africa and the USA, plus a second visit the activities of our respective committees in to China.
Board development relating to the this governance report.
I believe that the Boards Vesuvius business and the wider corporate composition addresses our current requirements environment is an ongoing process.
The Board for expertise, diversity and experience and, as engages directly with senior management, both such, is well equipped to face the challenge of through set-piece presentations at the Board setting and managing the strategic direction of and through Board and individual Director the business.
We will continue to do this throughout 2014. www.
