William Hill PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION SUppORTINg THe gROUpS pROgReSS.
Ralph Topping As good governance is a vital underpin has been with William Hill for over 40 years for good business, the Board reviewed and has been Chief Executive since 2008. its governance arrangements against the It should come as no surprise, therefore, revised Code.
The report from the Audit that during 2013, following discussion & Risk Committee explains why we have with Ralph, the Board agreed it would be not decided to put the external audit to prudent to start searching for a successor tender for now but apart from that I can so that we can make good progress in report that for 2013 William Hill was in full G areth, it has been another an orderly manner.
We appointed The compliance with the Code.
year of proGress for William Zygos Partnership to conduct the search hill, hoW has the board To further strengthen our commitment and we gave them an extensive brief so supported this?
to governance and improve our we can consider the talent pool which is management team, during 2013 Thomas within William Hill and also in the wider Murphy, who was General Counsel and external market.
In 2013, we continued to make significant Company Secretary, relinquished his role strategic progress with good growth in It is important to ensure we have the right as Company Secretary.
Some of our major strategic mix of talent, business background and to report that the Board has appointed achievements included establishing skills on the Board and I was delighted to Luke Thomas, who brings many William Hill Australia with the acquisition announce recently that Sir Roy Gardner years of experience, as our dedicated of Sportingbets Australian business and will join the Board as a Non-executive Company Secretary.
com, gaining full control of Director with effect from 3 March 2014. our Online business and strengthening our David Edmonds is the Boards Senior Engaging with our stakeholders balance sheet with a 373m rights issue Independent Non-executive Director and We continued to listen to and understand and a 375m corporate bond.
he completes his nine years of service in the views of our shareholders.
David will not seek re-election at During this important time the Board to the usual processes, we met with the Annual General Meeting to be held on provided able strategic leadership for the institutional holders, particularly around 8 May 2014 and I would like to thank David business in addition to demonstrating results announcements, and we engaged for his significant contribution to the Board good governance.
extensively with our largest shareholders over the past years.
Sir Roy will take over on proposals to change some of our as Senior Independent Non-executive Planning for success remuneration arrangements and on other Director following David Edmonds governance issues such as succession retirement.
The Board and management have planning.
As can be seen from the confidence in the future of William Hill Remuneration Report, the proposed and see significant growth opportunities, Commitment to the business and remuneration changes should position us particularly in mobile and in selected good governance well during a critical time for the business markets outside the UK.
We recognise, 2013 was a busy year for both to motivate and retain our highly talented however, the challenges we face with management team in what is a very management and the Board and I the likely introduction of the Point of would like to pass on my gratitude competitive market.
Consumption tax on UK online revenues for the enthusiasm and commitment from December 2014 and the continuation demonstrated.
Management and the Annual General Meeting AGM of a challenging retail environment.
executive directors spent a considerable During 2013, therefore, the Board spent The AGM remains an important amount of time delivering on both the much time focused on unlocking and fully opportunity for the Board to meet with strategic progress and performance exploiting opportunities in the future and shareholders, particularly those who may during the year.
Given the increased managing our challenges to enable the not otherwise have the chance to engage international spread of the business, many Group to continue delivering above market with the Board and senior managers.
of our Non-executive Directors visited our returns to our shareholders.
I and the rest of the Board were pleased new and existing businesses including to talk to many of our shareholders at the Gibraltar, Australia, the US, Israel, Bulgaria Ensuring leadership for the future 2013 AGM.
Our 2014 AGM is scheduled and the Philippines.
for 11.00 a. m. on 8 May 2014 at The Making sure we have the right leadership In 2012 the Financial Reporting Council Cavendish Conference Centre in London for the business remains a key priority introduced a revised version of the UK and we look forward to seeing you there.
for the Board and throughout 2013 Corporate Governance Code the Code Gareth Davis we continued to deploy a range of and this applied to William Hill for 2013.
Chairman development programmes for senior
