Governance: Chairmans letter Board appointments and Early adoption of new succession reporting requirements In January 2013, Pilar Lpez and Alan Following the publication of the new Murray joined as Non Executive Directors, edition of the UK Corporate Governance broadening the scope of the skills and Code the Code in September 2012 experience on the Board.
Pilar and Alan are and the regulations published by the a welcome addition to the Board and have Department for Business, Innovation and made valuable contributions since joining.
Skills concerning narrative and directors Biographical details for Pilar and Alan can remuneration reporting which come into be found on page66.
force for companies with financial years ending on or after 30 September 2013, as a On 25 July 2013, we announced that matter of good governance the Board has Dear Shareholder Andrew Duff would be stepping down from taken the opportunity to implement certain the Board on 26 November 2013 after nine This section of our report outlines changes earlier than required.
Details of years of service to Wolseley.
As part of a how the Board ensures that high this and other areas where requirements phased handover of responsibilities, Alan standards of corporate governance have been adopted early are provided on Murray succeeded Andrew as Chairman of are maintained.
We expect to meet all of these the Remuneration Committee on 1 August committed to fostering an effective disclosure requirements in the 2013 14 2013 and as Senior Independent Director governance framework that supports Annual Report and Accounts.
We are fortunate the Companys core values and to have a Non Executive Director of the which underpins our ability to set Next year calibre of Alan Murray to assume those the overall strategic direction of the roles.
I would like to thank Andrew for his Wolseley Group.
During the next financial year, we shall outstanding contributions to Wolseley and implement the remaining new reporting wish him the very best forhis future.
requirements and continue to maintain Your Board our strategic focus on driving the evolution Your Board provides strong leadership Diversity of Group business models, develop our to the Company and continues to have recruitment and succession planning In last years report, I outlined our intention effective and constructive relationships processes and prioritise workforce diversity to improve on workforce diversity at all with both the management team and at all levels of the organisation.
levels and to redesign our senior leadership shareholders.
The relationships within development programmes.
I am pleased the Board have continued to develop to report that we have taken steps towards well this financial year.
We have a strong achieving these goals.
Further details of culture of open debate where all Directors how we have done this are provided on are actively encouraged to challenge pages 52 and 83.
We are supportive of the existing assumptions and to raise voluntary approach as an effective way to difficult questions.
Gareth Davis encourage companies to improve gender Chairman The Non Executive Directors continue to diversity in boardrooms: I am pleased to be independent and objective, and to play be able to remind you that of our last five an essential role in the composition of Non Executive Director appointments, the Board due to the skills and expertise three have been women.
of this report we have two women on the Board, Tessa Bamford and Pilar Lpez, Our annual Board effectiveness review and we remain confident that by 2015 assists us in highlighting areas in which the diversity of the Board will meet the improvements can be made.
This year, the recommendations set in Lord Davies review was conducted internally and the report, Women on Boards.
outcome of this review and our progress against the areas identied for improvement in last years  review are provided on page 75.
Compliance with the Code We confirm that, throughout the financial year, theCompany applied all of the principles set out insections A to E of the UK Corporate Governance Code and has complied with the detailed provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors,  LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
Wolseley plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
