Governance Governance: overview Committees of the Board Leadership Details of the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance Continued close focus on structure are set out on page 69.
The formal terms of reference strategy and its execution.
foreach of the Committees of the Board, which have been approved by the Board and comply with the Code, are available from the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Read more andcanalso befound on the Wolseley plc website See pages 71 to 73 www.
Membership and activities of the various committees are summarised on pages 79, 83, 84 and 96 of this report.
Provided below is an overview of our key committees.
Effectiveness Audit Committee A strong, open and effective Board.
Chaired by Michael Wareing Number of meetings in the year: 4 Role of the Committee Read more See pages 74 to 76 The Audit Committee has responsibility for overseeing and monitoring the Companys financial statements, accounting processes, audit internal and external, controls and matters relating to fraud and whistleblowing.
Accountability For more information on the Audit Committee Close scrutiny of risks and the Audit Committee Report and controls.
See pages 79 to 82 Read more See page 76 and Risk management and Remuneration Committee internal control report 1 See pages 42 to 47 Chaired by Andrew Duff Number of meetings in the year: 5 Remuneration Role of the Committee The Committee reviews and recommends to the Board the Prudent oversight of framework and policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive remuneration.
theExecutive Directors and the Executive Committee.
The remuneration of the Non Executive Directors is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The Committee takes Read more into account the business strategy of the Group and how the See pages 89 to 104 remuneration policy reects and supports that strategy.
For more information on the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Committee Report Relations with See pages 89 to 104 shareholders 1 Alan Murray succeeded Andrew Duff as Chairman of the Remuneration Open engagement Committee on 1 August 2013. with shareholders.
Nominations Committee Chaired by Gareth Davis Read more See pages 77 and 78 Number of meetings in the year: 3 Role of the Committee The Nominations Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and its Committees.
It identies and nominates suitable candidates to be appointed to the Board subject to Board approval and considers succession generally.
For more information on the Nominations Committee See page 83 The Major Announcements Committee is also a Committee of the Board.
By its nature and as anticipated by its terms of reference, it would usually meet only in exceptional circumstances where information has come to light which is of an unexpected, nonroutine and material nature.
There were no meetings in the year.
Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65
