44 CHaIrMaNS INTrOdUCTION Balfour Beatty is committed to applying the very highest standards of corporate governance wherever it operates.
much more directed at merit, experience We have continued to apply the and skills.
More information on our UK Corporate Governance Code diversity programme across the and, in respect to its main organisation is set out on page 40. principles, I would like to draw Accountability your attention to the following: We continue to believe that the Companys policies and procedures Leadership and effectiveness enable the Board to present a fair, Our areas of focus for the Board in 2013 balanced and understandable assessment and 2014 are summarised in the adjacent of the Groups trading position and its column.
In the pages which follow, I have prospects.
We continue to keep under set out how we have been addressing review the terms of reference of the these items as a Board: whether through Areas of focus in 2013 Board and its Committees and will make the Directors collectively, or via the Board Transition to new Chief Executive adjustments as considered necessary.
Any changes to the terms of reference Appointment of two non-executive The transition from Ian Tyler to arepublished on our corporate website.
Directors AndrewMcNaughton as Chief Executive, Towards the end of 2013, the Audit Operational delivery focus on went smoothly.
Committee carried out a comprehensive Construction Services UK and review of its terms of reference in light During 2013, two of our non-executive implementation of its recovery plan ofbest practice, which culminated in a Directors, Mike Donovan and Hubertus proposal coming forward to the Board in Implementation of business strategy Krossa, retired after several years of January 2014.
The proposal was accepted concentrated focus on key successful service on the Board.
Both and the Audit Committee has now been recovery markets, UK and US have been replaced, as referred to in renamed the Audit, Risk & Assurance myChairmans Review on page 1, with Remuneration policy review Committee to reflect this increased Directors who bring with them, amongst dialogue with shareholders levelof focus on risk more generally.
other things, a wealth of experience of completed in Q1 2013.
No TheCommittee will, in future, meet related sectors and a sound knowledge fundamental changes to the policy fivetimes each year with a separate ofbuilding businesses in an international proposed for 2014. meeting concentrated entirely on risk and professional services environment.
Areas of focus in 2014 Although Belinda Richards and Bill Operational delivery Thomas only joined us in September Read more online in our Investors section 2013, they have already attended several Financial performance including Remuneration Board and Committee meetings as well cashgeneration.
In Q1 2013, the Remuneration Committee asstrategy working group meetings.
carried out a limited consultation exercise Theyhave also given significant time to with major shareholders on the structure participating in a comprehensive induction and targets of the annual incentive plan programme which has enabled them to and the long term performance share meet with senior leaders in each part plan.
These proposals were broadly ofour business.
accepted by those shareholders and the Diversity proposals were subsequently included We have reported elsewhere in this report inour Remuneration Report, which was on our diversity and inclusion programme, submitted to shareholders for approval, which extends over a three-year atthe Annual General Meeting in timeframe to 2015.
Although the resolution had appointed as our second female Director anoverwhelming majority, we were increasing the female composition of our disappointed that there was a25% vote Board to 20%.
Although, as a policy, we against the Remuneration Report.
We had strongly support greater diversity in all its not received any notification ahead of the forms, not least gender diversity, as an AGM that there was any disquiet with the important objective for the Group, we content of thereport and, in the absence do not believe in the concept of gender of any information to the contrary, believe quotas, our preferred approach being Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
com ar2013 45 this understandably reflected shareholder concerns following the publication of our trading update in April which signalled apoor performance in Construction Services UK.
We will continue to maintain our close dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
The remuneration policy will be subject to a binding vote for the first time at our AGM in May 2014.
Relations with shareholders Our investor relations programme remains of critical importance to the Board and thisis why, at each of our meetings, wereceive a comprehensive report from our investor relations team, as well as receiving, at regular intervals, updates from analysts and the feedback from any meetings which the Directors, including myself, may have held with shareholders.
Further information on our investor programme is set out on page 65.
Our continued commitment of resources and time to investor communication in our major home market of the US continues to derive benefits and around 16% of our share capital continues to be held by US investors.
We will continue to seek out ways how this proportion might grow overtime.
steve Marshall Chairman MEaSUrING a laSTING lEGaCy We are replacing the existing 132kV overhead line from Beauly to Denny with an upgraded 400kV line, capable of carrying much more electricity, on behalf of Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission.
Throughcollaborative working with our client, we are developing adata framework to measure the social, economic and environmental impact of major projects to improve the planning and implementation offuture projects.
com beaulydenny Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2013 balfourbeatty.
