37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Letter from the Chairman Introduction At Countrywide, we are committed to the delivery of high standards ofcorporate governance are fair, balanced and understandable.
Dear shareholder Wealso developed and implemented a At Countrywide, we are committed to the framework toreview the effectiveness of delivery of high standards of corporate theexternal auditor and note our proposal We have continued to governance in support of the effective fortheir reappointment at the AGM.
management of the business and the delivery make solid progress As this is the first full period of reporting of long term shareholder value.
The corporate as we enhance the following the IPO, we report instances of governance report that follows is intended to noncompliance with the Code where we give shareholders a clear understanding governance structure didnot comply with specific provisions ofthe Groups corporate governance throughout the period under review.
During arrangements and how they operated during previously embedded this period oftransition from private to public the year, including analysis of the level of within the Group.
ownership, and the development of the Board compliance with the principles of the UK and its Committees, these are not unexpected Corporate Governance Code the Code.
conclusions and we have plans in place to I joined the Board of Countrywide on address them, details of which are provided 2September 2013, taking over from with the explanations for noncompliance NevilleRichardson as senior independent inthe following report.
nonexecutive director and Chairman of the As noted within my Chairmans statement Audit and Risk Committee.
On 7 November onpage 3, Grenville Turner has indicated 2013, Robert Davies decided to step down as hisdesire to step down as CEO during Chairman for personal reasons and I agreed 2014and the search for a successor has to become interim Chairman with immediate commenced.
Given his extensive experience, effect.
Despite these unplanned changes in the Board hasasked Grenville to become the Board composition, we have continued nonexecutive Chairman and he has agreed tomake solid progress as we enhance the toaccept the appointment once a new CEO governance structure previously embedded isin post.
I willthen become deputy chairman within the Group.
We plan to As part of the improvements to align progress the appointment oftwo new ourriskand internal audit capabilities, independent nonexecutive directors to return theGroupundertook an exercise to review the composition of the Board to amajority of itsriskappetite and refresh the risk registers.
independent nonexecutive directors and Weconducted a bottomup risk analysis compliance with the Code.
ineach of the divisions which will be used to shape the internal audit activities during 2014, providing a combined assurance plan and a more coordinated approach to the Groups risk management and audit activities.
David Watson Interim Chairman In addition, we have implemented in full 27 February 2014 thechanges to the Code introduced this yearby developing procedures to internally review and externally report on each of these areas.
Our summary of significant accounting matters and how we have addressed them isdetailed within the following report and formed part of our ongoing interaction with both management and the external auditor, considering related matters such as the additional financial reporting requirements arising during the year, to enable us to conclude on whether the financial statements
