REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN Risk management and internal controls A key focus of the Code is risk management and the responsibility of boards to determine the nature and extent of the risks they are willing to take in achieving strategic corporate objectives, as well as including an explicit obligation for boards to review the effectiveness of risk management systems and internal control.
Given the risks inherent with building and construction, the awareness of risk amongst directors is high.
Accordingly, the Board dedicates considerable time to discussing and assessing the risks affecting the Group and the mitigation strategies to address them.
We have included further commentary on the management of risk and enhanced our review of the principal risks and uncertainties Dear Shareholder of the Group so that their relevance to the Groups business and management accountabilities for each mitigation strategy is clear I am pleased to report that your Company has fully complied with the see Managing Risk on pages 34 to 39 of the Business Review.
main and supporting principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued in June 2010, a copy of which is available from Shareholder engagement www.
The Board is focused on issues and developments The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an on-going impacting the UK corporate governance arena including the relationship with the Companys shareholders and achieves this through requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in regular dialogue on issues such as the potential impact upon our business September 2012 and the revised reporting requirements for the of UK and European macroeconomics, the availability of mortgage lending Directors and Remuneration Reports, which will formally apply for to customers, strategy, performance and governance.
We also continue the financial year ending 30 June 2014. to consult with major shareholders in respect of our remuneration policy.
Board composition Conclusion Good corporate governance is more than just awareness and In addition to the key areas referred to above, your Board will also adherence to the Code.
It is about the Board, under my stewardship, continue to focus on increasing the pro tability, maintaining an setting the right tone at the top.
A key element of this is ensuring that appropriate capital structure of the Group as well as enhancing the Board composition is made up of the appropriate balance of skills Groups Return on Capital Employed and total shareholder return see and experience to drive the strategy forward.
During the year, the pages 85 to 144 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
We also remain non-executive membership of the Board was refreshed.
Bob Davies committed to excellence in the quality of the homes we build and the retired from the Board in November 2012, after almost nine years communities we create, as re ected in our record number of NHBC service to the Board.
In order to enhance the existing Board balance it quality awards this year.
was agreed that it would be bene cial to the business to have a Board member with strategic marketing skills and experience.
Accordingly, Nina Bibby was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December Bob Lawson 2012.
In addition, the Executive reporting structure was simpli ed CHAIRMAN through the creation of a Group Chief Operating Of cer role reporting to the Group Chief Executive.
Board effectiveness We assessed the performance of our Board and its committees through a series of individual director, senior manager and external adviser assessments.
This was conducted by Mrs F on Hague of Independent Board Evaluation IBE.
The outcome which is set out in the report of the Nomination Committee was positive and generated a number of insightful suggestions which we will address over the next 12 months.
Diversity The Boards policy on Board appointments is available on our website www.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference include an express reference to the consideration of diversity when reviewing and implementing Board level succession plans.
Below Board level the Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director are reviewing our existing policies and procedures and considering if there is any need for change to enhance the promotion of diversity amongst our workforce.
Encouragingly, our graduate intake, which we have more than doubled in size for the 2013 14 financial year 23 to 57 has a 50:50 gender balance.
42 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
