REMUNERATION REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF employed, the Group has achieved 3.4 years supply of owned land THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and one years supply of land contracts conditional on planning: the standard of build quality and customer satisfaction delivered.
During the year, the Group received 102 awards for quality workmanship in the annual National House-Building Council NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
This is the highest number ever won by a single housebuilder and the ninth consecutive year our site managers have gained more awards than any other housebuilder.
The Group also achieved the maximum 5 Star rating from the Home Builders Federation for a fourth consecutive year: health and safety performance.
All divisions within the Group achieved the 93% benchmark that site managers must meet under our proactive Dear Shareholder safety, health and environment auditing matrix.
There were further reductions in our Reportable Injury Incidence Rate and we achieved the I am pleased to present my first Directors Remuneration Report for the NHBC National Best Health and Safety Award for a multi-storey site: financial year ended 30 June 2013 the Remuneration Report on behalf the comprehensive re nancing package has put in place committed of the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
We will, as in previous borrowing facilities of circa 850m, with maturities ranging from 2016 years, be seeking an advisory vote for the Remuneration Report at the to 2021.
While the re nancing costs form the principal element in Companys 2013 Annual General Meeting the 2013 AGM.
After taking exceptional costs of 87.5m this year, moving forward the underlying over as Chairman of the Committee in November 2012, I commissioned average interest rate excluding historic interest rate swaps is reduced New Bridge Street NBS to undertake a review of the Companys to approximately 4.5%: and remuneration policy the Remuneration Policy in order for the Committee the monetising of part of the Groups equity share portfolio, raising to assess whether it: i continued to be aligned to the Groups strategic 33.7m, which has enhanced the Groups liquidity and land buying abilities.
objectives of increasing pro tability: maintaining an appropriate capital structure: and improving the return on capital employed Our Strategic In addition, the Committee took into account the intention of the Board Objectives : and ii re ected the current economic environment.
to propose, to shareholders, at the 2013 AGM a conservatively set final This review was undertaken during the first quarter of 2013 and took dividend in respect of the 2012 13 financial year, while reiterating its target into account remuneration guidance, views of major institutional of a three times dividend cover for the financial year ending 30 June 2016. shareholders and the themes arising from the review of executive remuneration by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills After taking all these factors into account, the Committee concluded BIS and the regulations proposed by BIS, which were subsequently that for the 2012 13 financial year management actions have delivered published in final form in June 2013 the BIS Regulations.
excellent progress in delivering Our Strategic Objectives across all operating metrics and have placed the Company in a strong position for Remuneration policy the future.
The Committee also factored into its assessment that some After analysis at its April 2013 meeting, the Committee concluded that of these outcomes e. g. build quality, customer satisfaction and the health the Remuneration Policy remains appropriate and continues to align the and safety performance, together with the Total Shareholder Returns xed and variable elements of Executive remuneration with Our Strategic TSR and Earnings per Share EPS performances of the Company Objectives.
Details of how the Committee sets Executive Director and since 2010, have created a longer term and sustained management Senior Management remuneration, the key elements of Executive Director focus.
Having done so, the Committee reached the following decisions and Senior Management remuneration and pension arrangements in respect of remuneration for the 2012 13 and 2013 14 financial years.
can be found on the following pages of this report.
Base salary Factors considered by the Committee when assessing Following a benchmarking exercise undertaken by NBS, the Executive remuneration Committee concluded that the level of base salaries for Executive In assessing Executive remuneration for the 2012 13 financial year, the Directors and those individuals directly below this level the Senior Committee took account of the following factors, re ecting management Management remains appropriately positioned in the market.
actions during the year: Accordingly, salary increases for the 2013 14 financial year have the increase of operating pro t before exceptional items by 32.2% been limited to 2.5% for Executive Directors and Senior Management to 252.7m 2012: 191.1m and of pro t before tax and exceptional in line with the increase awarded to all managers across the Group.
The launch of the Help This increase is slightly lower than the 3% increase awarded to all to Buy scheme on 1 April undoubtedly assisted 2013 sales, however employees below manager level.
its impact was restricted to the final quarter of the financial year: total completions including joint ventures of 13,663 2012: 12,857 : Non-Executive Directors fees continued progress with reduction in the Groups net debt from Non-Executive Directors base annual fees were increased from 167.7m at 30 June 2012 to 25.9m at 30 June 2013, re ecting the 40,000 to 48,000, with effect from 1 July 2012, in recognition of the timing of land payments and a higher level of year end completions: additional time commitment expected from them following the Boards the progress in transforming the Groups land bank.
The Group has decision that they should all sit on each of its committees.
Bob Lawson approved the purchase of 18,536 plots 2012: 12,085 plots with a value declined any review of the Chairmans fee and the additional fees paid of 1,047.3m 2012: 578.1m.
Focusing upon maximising return on capital to the Chairs of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 10,000 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT and the Senior Independent Director 5,000 remained unadjusted.
The 2010 11 LTPP was subject The Board has agreed that no fee increases will be awarded to any to two performance conditions, TSR and EPS, each representing 50% Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, for the 2013 14 of the award.
100% of the TSR element vests on the attainment of financial year.
I can con rm that Non-Executive Director fees remain performance which is in the upper quartile or above, 25% vests at well within the limit previously approved by shareholders and contained median and where performance is in between these points, the TSR within the Companys Articles of Association.
element vests on a straight-line basis.
In respect of the EPS element, 100% of this element vests on the attainment of an EPS target of 25 2012 13 Annual bonus pence per share or higher for the financial year ended 30 June 2013, In July 2012 when the Committee was setting the objectives for the 25% vests at 10 pence per share and for performance achieved annual bonus, budgeted pro t before tax and exceptional items was between 25% and 100%, vesting is on a straight-line basis.
Accordingly, the Committee established a target level of 155.0m, with a minimum pro t before tax threshold for the bonus Both performance conditions were tested after the financial year end.
The at 145.0m and a maximum threshold of 175.0m.
Taking account TSR of the Group was in the upper quartile compared to the performance of the factors summarised above, in particular the Groups signi cant of the comparator group comprising the constituents of the FTSE 250 improvement in pro t before tax and exceptional items which determined excluding investment trusts and therefore 100% of this element will 66.7% of the total bonus for the year, reduction in net debt and the vest.
In terms of the EPS, the Group achieved adjusted basic EPS of individual contributions of all senior managers within the Group to 14.6 pence per share basic EPS 7.7 pence per share and accordingly achieving strong results across all operating metrics, the Committee, 47.8% of the EPS element will also vest.
The participants of the 2010 11 in exercising its over arching discretion in relation to bonus awards, LTPP will therefore receive 73.9% of the award granted to them in concluded that a bonus award of 150% of base salary for Executive October 2010.
The award vests in October 2013 and the relevant Directors after taking into account adjustments for the value of land number of shares will be issued to the participants at that point.
and the achievement of personal objectives was justi ed.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into shares Service contracts for a period of three years and will be subject to a continued employment During the year the Committee tasked the Group General Counsel and performance condition.
Company Secretary with reviewing the service contracts for Executive Directors and Senior Management to ensure that they were up to date 2013 14 Annual bonus and compliant with developments in Company and Employment law.
For the 2013 14 financial year, the maximum bonus potential for Executive Directors has been maintained at 150% of base salary with any award over Governance and Shareholder consultation 100% of salary being deferred into shares in the Company for a period of Throughout the year the Committee complied with those aspects three years subject to a continued employment condition.
Thereafter, the of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code relevant to its requirements of continued share ownership of at least one times salary business and took into account the remuneration guidelines and will apply.
The payment for on-target performance will, as per the 2012 13 guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the financial year, remain at 50% of the maximum potential.
Details of the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and Pensions Investment performance measures and the weightings against each of them, including Research Consultants PIRC when setting the Remuneration Policy.
the penalties for under-performance against health and safety and customer The Committee continues to seek to demonstrate its accountability on satisfaction targets can be found on pages 68 and 69 of this Remuneration executive remuneration to shareholders through this report and through Report.
In addition, there will be an increased focus upon maximising return regular dialogue.
As in previous years, the Committee did engage with on capital employed and the achievement of a target of 3.5 years supply of key institutional investors and shareholder representative bodies in owned land and one years supply of land contracts conditional on planning.
respect of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Senior Management for the forthcoming year and took into account the feedback Long-Term Performance Plan LTPP received from this process, when setting the Remuneration Policy.
2013 14 LTPP Award Consistent with the approach taken last year, the Committee intends The Committee will consider both the shareholders vote on the report to make awards to Executive Directors and Senior Management under and views expressed by shareholders on the detail of this report at the the LTPP during the 2013 14 financial year the 2013 14 LTPP.
The level 2013 AGM in determining future remuneration policy for all employees.
of the award to be granted will continue to be no more than 200% for the Executive Directors.
In the case of other participants, awards will be up to To provide our shareholders with the opportunity to familiarise themselves 150% of base salary unless there are exceptional individual circumstances, with, and to provide feedback on, our proposed approach to reporting such as planned Board succession or truly exceptional sustained delivery on remuneration in respect of the 2013 14 financial year when the BIS during a plan period by an individual.
In such cases, the Committee retains Regulations become mandatory for the Group, we have restructured the discretion to increase a contingent award up to 200%.
These awards will the contents of this report to re ect the Directors Remuneration Policy be subject to a TSR performance target, to be measured over a three-year and Annual Report on Remuneration requirements.
performance period commencing 1 July 2013, and an EPS performance target for the financial year ending 30 June 2016.
Further details on the I hope that you will be able to support the Committees policy 2013 14 LTPP can be found on page 69 of this Remuneration Report.
and Remuneration Report at this years AGM.
Vesting of 2010 11 LTPP Award RICHARD AKERS The performance period for the award made in October 2010 the CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 58 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
