LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The membership of the Audit Committee and attendance at each of its meetings is set out in Table 4.
Table 4 Membership and attendance at Audit Committee meetings Audit Committee Chairman: Mark Rolfe Bob Davies 1 3 Richard Akers 4 5 Tessa Bamford 4 5 Nina Bibby 2 2 Rod MacEachrane 5 5 Dear Shareholder Mark Rolfe 5 5 Bob Davies, Richard Akers and Tessa Bamford explained their reasons for their absence In accordance with the Boards decision that all Non-Executive Directors and provided their views on the items of business to the Chairman prior to the meetings should sit on each of the Boards Committees, Richard Akers and Tessa they were unable to attend.
Bob Davies ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 14 November 2012 Bamford joined the Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2012 and when he stepped down from his positions of Non-Executive Director and Senior Nina Bibby on 3 December 2012 following her appointment to the Board Independent Director.
Table 4 shows each of the members throughout the Nina Bibby joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 3 December 2012 and became a member of the Audit Committee with effect from the same date.
The Audit Committee therefore comprises of members with an appropriate blend of skill sets to complement the Note: financial expertise which was already present amongst Audit Committee 1 5 Number of meetings attended whilst a Director: 5 Number of meetings held whilst a Director.
members, enabling an enhanced business and commercial focus and a broader contribution to the Committees programme of work.
Activities undertaken during the 2012 13 financial year I can con rm that, in accordance with Code provision C. 3.1, each The Audit Committee follows an annual work programme, which of the members is considered to be independent and the Board covers the principal responsibilities as set under its terms of reference is satis ed that I have recent and relevant financial experience.
available from the Companys website www.
The Audit Committee undertook, amongst other matters, Given the change in membership of the Audit Committee, it was seen the following activities in respect of the 2012 13 financial year: as a good opportunity to provide the members with enhanced training assessed the integrity of the Groups financial statements and surrounding the key issues faced by the Audit Committee and how each reviewed all formal announcements relating to the Groups of these was monitored and assessed throughout the Group.
Accordingly, financial performance: led by the Group Financial Controller and supported by the Chief Internal monitored the Groups financial management and reporting Auditor and by our external auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte, two training systems and explored the integrity and effectiveness of its sessions for members of the Audit Committee took place in February accounting procedures, systems of internal control and the process and April.
These provided an additional insight into the areas of revenue for identifying and monitoring the material risks facing the Group: recognition: recoverability of equity share assets: joint ventures: impairment reviewed and challenged, where necessary, the consistency of, of land and work in progress WIP : impairment of goodwill and intangible and any proposed changes to the Groups accounting policies: assets: and taxation.
Separately, the Audit Committee received a considered the effectiveness, independence and objectivity presentation from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary of the external auditor, the ratio and quantum of audit and on the changes to the Code, narrative reporting and the progress with non-audit fees, the effectiveness of the external audit process the Sharman review on going concern.
and proposals for partner rotation: made recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Audit Committee met on five occasions during the financial year appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external and completed its annual work programme in full.
Attendance at each auditor including the appointment of a new lead audit partner: of these meetings is set out in Table 4.
In addition to the Group General reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the internal audit Counsel and Company Secretary, representatives from Deloitte and function, the annual internal audit plan and all reports produced the Chief Internal Auditor, attended each of the Audit Committee by the internal auditor and managements responsiveness to meetings and met with the Committee independently of management the findings and recommendations of the internal auditor: and the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group reviewed its own composition as part of its annual effectiveness Finance Director and other members of senior management also review: and attended meetings or parts thereof, by invitation, as required.
The considered the whistleblowing procedures and ensured that following section details the work undertaken by the Audit Committee arrangements were in place for proportionate and independent in respect of the 2012 13 financial year.
investigation and follow-up action in respect of any matter raised pursuant to those procedures.
Mark Rolfe CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
