56 Grainger plc Governance Corporate governance What does it mean to Grainger?
Robin Broadhurst Nonexecutive chairman beyond nine years will prejudice their Chairmans introduction The board of Grainger is independence.
John Barnsley, the senior independent director, has served on the committedto maintaining Compliance with the UK Corporate board since February 2003.
Governance Code high standards of The board and myself believe that John The governance rules applicable to all Barnsley continues to exercise a degree of UK companies admitted tothe Official corporategovernance and rigorous enquiry and intellectual challenge List of the UK Listing Authority are set have implemented infull in respect of his role as nonexecutive out in the UKCorporate Governance director and as such continue to regard Code the Code, published by the the changes to theUK him as independent.
His continuity of FinancialReporting Council.
The board fully service has been, and continues to be, supports the principles set out in the Code Corporate Governance of considerable benefit to the company and confirms that it has complied with all of Code introduced this year.
through a period of significant change theprovisions of the Code throughout the in both the executive and nonexecutive financial year ended 30September 2013.
The directorsand I directors and provides an important This report sets out Graingers knowledge link with the past and an governance policies and practices and seegood governance indepth understanding of the company includes details of how the group applies which is considered to be highly beneficial asfundamental to the principles and complies with the to the board.
Further, this enhanced provisions of the Code.
effectivemanagement duration of service is complementary to the longer term business cycle applicable to the Composition and independence ofthe business Grainger business model.
The board reviews nonexecutive director anddeliveryof longterm The board consisted of a majority independence on an annual basis and takes of independent nonexecutive directors into account the individuals professional shareholdervalue.
excluding the chairman throughout characteristics, their behaviour at board the year.
meetings and their contribution to Biographical details of all the current unbiased and independent debate.
All of directors are set out on pages 54 and 55. the nonexecutive directors are considered In accordance with the UK Corporate by the board to be independent.
Governance Code, allthe directors will We are aware that, for some investors, stand for reelection at the AGM.
length of nonexecutive directors service
