30 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Go vernance C HAIRMANS STATEMENT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 3.
The first externally facilitated Board evaluation which was carried out with the assistance of Independent Audit Limited.
The results of the evaluation were positive and the Board is currently addressing a number of areas which the evaluation highlighted forattention, in particular: the structure and provision of information for Board meetings: communication and reporting: and succession planning.
We are pleased with the progress achieved so far and I will report further innext years report.
Peter Johnson, the senior independent non-executive director, retires from the Board on 31 January 2014 after ten years loyal service and I would like to thank Peter, on behalf of the Board, for his significant contribution since joining Bellway on 1 November 2003.
Peter will be replaced as senior independent non-executive director by John Cuthbert, who is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Peter will be replaced as Chairman of the Audit Committee by John Watson PaulHampden Smith, who has held similar roles with Chairman other companies.
The changes noted above will, I believe, ensure that the Board continues to carry out its duties effectively.
I am pleased to confirm that the Company has The Board is giving appropriate consideration to the complied with the requirements of the UK Corporate requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance Governance Code, published in June 2010, throughout Code, which was introduced for accounting periods the financial year to 31 July 2013 and up to the date of commencing on or after 1 October 2012 and will report this Report.
on its progress in next years annual report.
As Chairman of the Board, I am responsible for The Board has already partially addressed some of the the leadership of the Board and ensuring that it matters raised in the new Code, particularly in relation conducts itself in an effective manner.
The Board has to the issue of diversity and more particularly to the agreed clearly dened roles for myself and the Chief matters raised by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report Executive and the non-executive directors challenge Women on Boards.
Women account for around 30% management and contribute to the development of Bellways workforce and hold a number of key senior ofstrategy.
The Board will continue to The Board, its committees and individual directors promote the interests of women and all other aspects are subject to annual performance evaluation of diversity, both at Board level and throughout its andall directors are subject to annual re-election operations for the long-term benefit of the Group, byshareholders.
Appointments to the Board are always made on The Board has complied, as far as possible, with the merit, against objective criteria and the Board strongly requirements of the new remuneration disclosure supports the principle of boardroom diversity in all its regulations in this report, which is one year earlier aspects.
During the year under review, the Board has thannecessary.
been particularly focused on a number of key areas: This is my first Annual Report as Chairman and I am 1.
The recruitment and selection of two new nonvery keen to encourage effective communication with executive directors, with Paul Hampden Smith and the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders.
Denise Jagger joining the Board with effect from As part of this process, I am writing to our major 1August 2013: shareholders advising them of my availability should 2.
The transition of new management into their roles, they wish to discuss anything with me.
including, in particular, the appointment of Ted Ayres to the role of Chief Executive on 1 February 2013, coinciding with my appointment as non-executive Chairman on the same date: John Watson Chairman 14 October 2013
