Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Statement The Board consisted of a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman throughout the year.
Details of all the current Directors, their skills and experience are set out on page 42.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will stand for re-election at the Peter Smith Annual General Meeting AGM, with the exception of Clare Chairman of Savills plc and Chairman Hollingsworth who will stand down as a Non-Executive Director of the Nomination Committee at the conclusion of the AGM on 12 May 2014.
Diversity Chairmans introduction We believe that a diverse culture is a key factor in driving the success of the business, and we fully support the Davies Reports aspiration The Board of Savills is committed to maintaining the highest to promote greater female representation on listed company standards of corporate governance.
The Directors and I see boards.
During the year, the Savills Board had one female Nongood governance as fundamental to the effective management Executive Director, representing 20% of Non-Executive Board of the business and the delivery of long term shareholder value.
membership and another Non-Executive Director is based in Hong Kong.
As and when Board appointments arise, we will look We continue to work hard to create a culture where doing to follow the procedures recommended by the Davies Report the right thing is at the core of how we do business.
I firmly and by the Code to maintain a balanced Board.
Our policy on believe that the tone set at the top of the organisation sets the page 44 summarises our approach to diversity and what this standard for the rest of the Group and from the Board down means for our business and our people.
we are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance.
We fully recognise that in an increasingly People and training regulated global market, at the heart of every successful At Savills, our people are the key to our continued success.
organisation is a good corporate governance structure and we We will ensure that our employees are equipped with the skills seek to create an environment in which transparency, honesty, and insight required to deliver the high quality service we demand integrity and fairness are valued and practiced by our people for our clients.
We do this by continuing to invest in our future by every day.
Our Code of Conduct is readily accessible in all local recruiting, training, developing and retaining the best people and languages to all staff to support their day to day decision making.
providing them with the necessary tools and supporting systems We demand the highest professional standards from all of our and infrastructure.
This positions us to both drive key growth people all of the time and we have a zero tolerance approach and deliver our ambitions and allows our people to develop on to breaches of the Code of Conduct.
a professional and personal level as individuals.
Details of our Corporate Responsibility activities and progress made during Composition and independence the year can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report Ensuring that we do the right thing in the right way requires the on pages 34 to 37. right leadership.
For the last four years we have conducted a formal, externally facilitated review of each Directors skills and Remuneration contribution and that of the Board as a whole and its Committees We have a clear and transparent approach to remuneration, in the context of the Companys business model and the evolving including Directors remuneration.
Our approach is a simple strategic needs of the business.
It is described in more detail on one, where greater emphasis is placed on the performance pages 4 to 25. related elements of the total remuneration package to ensure a close alignment between performance and reward and so The Board also reviews Non-Executive Director independence with shareholders interests.
More details of the Remuneration on an annual basis and takes into account the individuals Committees activities during the year, a breakdown of Directors professional characteristics, their behaviour at Board meetings remuneration and Non-Executives fees for the year and our and their contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
All forward looking remuneration policy, can be found on pages of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to 57 to 64. be independent, including Charles McVeigh, notwithstanding his long service.
Monitoring risk Risk management is and will remain a fundamental element of We are pleased that as confirmed by this years Board review the Board and Audit Committees agendas and our governance good progress has been made against the actions that the Board efforts across the Group as a whole.
The Audit Committees set itself in 2012 and we are confident that your Board has the Report on pages 47 to 50 sets out in more detail the systems of right balance of skills, experience and diversity of personality to risk management and internal control which help us to safeguard continue to encourage open, transparent debate and challenge.
the Companys assets and our shareholders investment.
Details of our principal risks can be found on pages 29 to 33.
We recognise the importance of planning for the future.
Our corporate strategy and business model are underpinned by a succession planning policy designed to progressively bring new skills and different perspectives to the Board and to complement the experience of our longer serving Directors so as to achieve an appropriate balance and position us to continue to challenge and debate corporate strategy.
38 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2013
