46 Corporate governance BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans overview Structure of the report I welcome open, This report sets out how BG Group meaningful discussion isgoverned and the key activities of withall of our shareholders, the Board of Directors in promoting effective governance during 2013. particularly with regard Further information on how the toour governance, strategy Group complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code during and remuneration.
The Board and I are committed to the highest standards of corporate Appointment of Chief Financial Officer governance which I believe are critical to business integrity and The Board spent considerable time during2013 overseeing the search performance, and in maintaining shareholder confidence.
I value greatly fora new Chief Financial Officer andExecutive Director of the Board.
aspirit of openness, and mutual trust and respect, around the Board The appointment of Simon Lowth tothis role was announced in July 2013 table.
This Board culture, supported by a diverse and complementary andbecame effective on 2December 2013.
Chris and I look forward range of expertise andperspectives, and a flow of information that is tobuilding a strong relationship with Simon as he helps guide the both proper and timely, will support the Board inanticipating coherently Groupto achieve its strategic objectives.
I would also like to thank the principal  for BGGroup in delivering its DenJones for his strong support to Chris during his period as shorter-term milestones and building a long-term, sustainable InterimChief Financial Officer.
Other changes to Board composition BG Group is fully compliant with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As noted on page 61, Martin Houston stepped down from the Board witheffect from13 November 2013.
I would like to thank Martin for Strategy hisoutstanding contribution to the growth of BG Group, in particular During the first half of 2013, the Board and I spent time actively supporting itsunique LNG model.
In addition, Peter Backhouse has confirmed his Chris ahead of the presentation of his new strategy to investors in May.
intention to retire atthe conclusion of the2014 Annual General Meeting Investor feedback was that the new strategy, with its commitment to AGM in recognition ofhis near 14-year service on the Board.
Peters amore actively managed portfolio and to capital discipline, had landed considerable contribution to the Board hasbeen highly valued by successfully.
The Boards primary task now is to ensure that the first myselfand his fellow Directors.
As I noted in the 2012 Annual Report, phase of the new strategy isexecuted diligently and rigorously.
Lim Haw-Kuang joined theBoard as a Non-Executive Director in March2013.
Separately, Iam pleased to welcome Martin Ferguson and This task is in even sharper focus following the disappointing announcement PamDaley as new Non-Executive Directors.
Pamjoined the Board, inJanuary 2014 concerning ouroperations in Egypt and the USA and andMartin joined theBoard and the Sustainability Committee, thedownward revisions to our 2014 outlook.
Focus on project delivery Continuity and diversity The Board has continued in 2013 to focus on the successful delivery of The recent appointments, made through a well-managed and progressive theGroups major growth projects in Australia and Brazil.
At the same time, process of Non-Executive succession, have secured deeper industry the Board continued to evaluate performance and output from the Groups knowledge and wider geographic coverage for the Board.
However, existing producing base assets, as well as the next generation of projects Iamconscious that, in this period of transition for the Company as it that will help to secure BG Groups future growth.
The Board has also continues to implement the new strategy, we must also ensure sufficient devoted time to the evaluation of the impact of the evolving political continuity, institutional expertise and corporate memory within theBoard.
and economic environment in Egypt on the Groups business.
The Board Icontinue to value all types of diversity, including gender, asavital sanctioned the development ofPhase 9a for West Delta Deep Marine component to a balanced, dynamic and effective Board.
Inrecognition inFebruary 2013 and retained significant oversight of the ongoing of this, the Board has this year set a policy toachieve aproportion of discussions with the Egyptian government regarding domestic 25% ofwomen on the Board by 2015, in support of the Davies Review offtakelevels and the outstanding debt due to theGroup.
We have also renewed our support of the large numberofinitiatives to address the needs of minority groups within New Senior Independent Director theorganisation as a whole, details of which can be found on page 55.
During 2013, Baroness Hogg indicated her intention to stand down fromthe role of Senior Independent Director, reflecting thecompletion Board evaluation ofnine years as a Director of the Company.
I would like tothank Sarah In 2013, performance evaluations of the Board, its Committees forher guidance and support during my first twoyears asChairman andindividual Directors were undertaken as an internal process led andIam pleased that she has agreed toremain onthe Board fora bytheSenior Independent Director.
Details of the full process and further year to provide continuity.
DrJohn Hood was appointed as recommendations made are set out on page 52. thenew Senior Independent Director with effect from 1January 2014 and, through my close workings with John in his role asChairman Engaging with shareholders oftheRemuneration Committee, I feel confident thatheiswell I and my fellow Board members welcome open, meaningful discussion  good work.
with all of our shareholders, particularly with regard to our governance, strategy and remuneration.
The Board and management have undertaken a number of activities in this regard during the year, details of which are set out onpage 53.
I hope shareholders will also take the opportunity tomeet withthe Board at the 2014 AGM.
Andrew gould CHAIrMAn n | o i l t a a s i a n r i p p m A o & N n o i t a r o l n p x o E i t | a r t e n e n m u t s e m v n e I R | s e v r e s e R | t i d e r u u s A o l c s i D G O V E R E V N I E T A E U N T C C T E I E BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | Chairmans overview 47 Board and groUp exeCUtive Committee strUCtUre audit Reviews the integrity, adequacy and effectiveness of Committee BGGroups system of internal control and risk management, Key Chairman: inparticular the internal and external audit processes Mark Seligman andtheGroups financial reporting and whistleblowing Group Executive sub-Committees andanti-bribery and corruption obligations.
Board Committees remuneration Sets, reviews and recommends the Groups overall Committee remuneration policy and strategy and reviews the Chairman: implementation of that policy and strategy.
Dr John Hood nominations Evaluates and makes recommendations regarding Board Committee andCommittee composition, succession planning and Chairman: diversity, and Directors potentialconflicts ofinterest.
Andrew Gould sustainability Provides direction and oversight of the implementation Committee oftheGroups Licence to Operate strategy and provides Chairman: strategic and operational leadership on HSSE matters.
Sir David Manning Finance Responsible for funding and treasury policy decisions.
Committee Chairman: BOARD Andrew Gould Chairmans Acts on behalf of the Board betweenscheduled meetings, Committee within clearly defined delegated authority.
Chairman: Andrew Gould geC sub-Committees that report to the audit Committee on an annual basis oninternalcontrol disclosure Supports the Board in determining, on a timely basis, Committee whether material information is inside information, and Chairman: Chief thenature, scope and timing of any proposed disclosure Financial Officer tothe market.
reserves Approves amendments to reserves policy, process and Committee guidelines, and reviews and challenges BG Group proposed Chairman: reserveand resource estimates.
Executive VicePresident, BGAdvance Further detail on the Group Executive sub-Committees is set out on page 50. what the Board has achieved in 2013 Board priorities for 2014 Strong oversight of safety and asset integrity performance.
Continue to drive improvements in safety and asset integrity performance.
Support management in the consistent and effective delivery of the Group Supported Chris Finlayson in the formulation of the Groups longer-term strategy.
business plan, including the review of controls underpinning managements business planning and forecasting processes.
In addition, support the setting Focused on individual project risks, with a particular concentration on the risks ofmetrics for strategy execution that will provide the market withconfidence presentin Australia, Brazil and Egypt.
regarding the achievement oflonger-term objectives.
Met regularly with senior management responsible for the delivery of the Provide oversight and direction in respect of the continuing challenges faced Groupskeygrowth projects.
Oversaw the appointment of Simon Lowth as Chief Financial Officer.
Oversee the delivery of first LNG exports from QCLNG in the fourth quarter.
Continue to support the delivery of the Groups growth project in Brazil Appointed a new Senior Independent Director and bolstered sectoral and asproduction volumes grow and capacity increases.
genderdiversity through the appointments ofLimHaw-Kuang, Pam Daley Articulate the Groups risk appetite and support the Chief Financial Officer andMartinFerguson.
inintegrating, simplifying and embedding Group-wide risk assessment, managementand reporting.
Pursued a successful portfolio management strategy, including the sale ofastakeinQCLNG.
Focus on senior management succession planning.
Pursued a significant engagement programme with key investors.
Monitor balance sheet flexibility and ensure that the Group remains ontrack tobe free cash flow positive in 2015.
Free cash flow is defined in the Glossary, page 147.
Guidance is provided at the Groups Reference Conditions, as shown on page 147.
Board attendanCe in 2013 Attendance notes scheduled ad hoc Chairmans Finance a meetings meetings agm Committee Committee a In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also held two ad hoc meetings duringtheyear.
Given the inherent short notice of these meetings, some Andrew Gould 9 9 2 2 Y 12 12 4 4 Directors were unable to attend but were fully briefed on the matters discussed.
Chris Finlayson 9 9 2 2 Y 11 12 4 4 b Den Jones stepped down as Interim Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director b Den Jones 8 8 2 2 Y 12 12 4 4 on2December 2013. c Simon Lowth 1 1 n a n a n a n a c Simon Lowth was appointed as Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director d on2December 2013.
Martin Houston 8 8 2 2 Y n a n a d Martin Houston stepped down from the Board on 13 November 2013.
Peter Backhouse 8 9 2 2 Y n a n a e Lim Haw-Kuang was appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2013.
Vivienne Cox 9 9 0 2 Y n a n a f Patrick Thomas was unable to attend the Board meeting held in April 2013 because e Lim Haw-Kuang 8 8 0 1 Y n a n a  with the Board of Bayer MaterialScience AG where he is Chief Executive.
Baroness Hogg 9 9 2 2 Y n a n a Dr John Hood 9 9 2 2 Y n a n a Caio Koch-Weser 9 9 1 2 Y n a n a Sir David Manning 9 9 2 2 Y n a n a Full details of Board Committee attendance are set out within the relevant Committee Mark Seligman 9 9 2 2 Y n a n a reportpages56 to 71.
Attendance details for the Board Committees that do not have f Patrick Thomas 8 9 2 2 Y n a n a fullreports within the Corporate Governance report are set out in this table.
