STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chairmans introduction Richard Davey, Chairman Dear Shareholder, Complying with the Code On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our corporate governance reports Between May and August 2013, the Remuneration Committee was not for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Board plays a key role in ensuring high compliant with section D. 2.1, regarding standards of governance and providing leadership for Amlin plc.
These activities the number of independent Non-Executive support our underlying purpose of creating shareholder value by following a robust, Directors serving on the Committee.
was due to a timing difference between Nigel Buchanans resignation on The Board strives to comply with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the 16 May 2013 and Mrs. Jemmett-Pages Code.
You can find the required regulatory and governance assurances throughout this and appointment on 15 August 2013.
During each Committee report, and in the compliance statement on our website at www.
this period, the Committee was quorate and complying with its Terms of Reference.
To achieve our objectives, we have a diverse Board, comprising a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors with a wide range of business skills, knowledge and experience.
See pages 64 to 65 for further details of our Board membership.
You can also find our Board Statement of Diversity on our website.
During 2013, a number of legislative changes were introduced.
Among these was the requirement for your Board to confirm whether this Annual Report provides a fair, balanced and understandable review of the year in business.
We implemented a robust process, which the Audit Committee reviewed and approved, to ascertain whether we could make this statement.
I am pleased to say that the Board considers this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to meet the fair, balanced and understandable requirements.
Yours sincerely, Richard Davey Chairman 28 February 2014 Amlin plc 2013 Annual Report 61
