Such processes need to be underpinned by Dear Shareholder, GOVERNANCE: the right culture, values and behaviours CHAIRMAN AND DIRECTORS permeating throughout the Group, based AS A FTSE 250 COMPANY WITH on openness, transparency and GOVERNANCE STATEMENT A PREMIUM LISTING ON THE LONDON accountability, as well as constructive STOCK EXCHANGE, IT IS OUR BOARDS challenge and collaboration.
Our Board and RESPONSIBILITY BOTH TO PRACTISE its Committees play a particularly important HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE role by setting the tone at the top, and our CEO and other key executives are GOVERNANCE AND TO CONTRIBUTE TO responsible for seeing that this culture PROMOTING AN ENVIRONMENT WHERE trickles down.
ROBUST PROCESSES ARE IN PLACE.
We do not see governance as a box-ticking exercise or simply related to processes and controls, but rather as a guide to ensure we do the right things in the right way.
Here are a few of the core ideas that underpin our Board and governance philosophies: Our Chairman and CEO positions are separate and will not be filled by a single person.
We want our senior executives focused on our business and not involved in potential conflicts, so they are not allowed to hold equity interests in any Georgian company without express Board approval.
We want a diverse Board both in terms of experience, geographic origin and gender.
A ROBUST GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE UNDERPINS THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 66 Annual Report 2013 Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188 Board members should do site visits focus and origin, we lost our sole female and attend an off-site meeting with Board member in 2013.
We are committed Management at least once a year to to gender diversity and will be seeking to better understand the business and add one or more women to the Board in influence strategy.
Board succession planning is actively managed and performance reviews Good corporate governance contributes are conducted regularly.
to the long-term success of a company, creating trust and engagement between During 2013, our governance framework the company and its stakeholders.
The has been amended to take into account the Group is committed to its customers and changes introduced by the UK Corporate clients and works hard to act ethically and Governance Code the Code and the responsibly in all of its business dealings.
commencement of The Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts We also strive to create an inclusive and Reports Amendment Regulations environment for all employees which helps 2013 the Regulations.
As a result of the us attract, retain and develop the best talent, strength of our embedded corporate and encourages an environment where a governance framework and our existing diverse range of people are motivated to be policies, procedures and processes, only at their best every day.
We have a performanceminor enhancements were required.
based culture, which enables us to sustain strong business performance for the long term.
The main change has been how we report these activities within the Annual Report Engagement with our shareholders.
The most significant reporting meet regularly with institutional investors changes have been to our Directors and analysts throughout the year and the Remuneration Report, together with the Board receives regular reports from the introduction of the binding vote on our Investor Relations department on its Remuneration Policy.
This additional reporting activities, and in particular on the feedback also includes the statement made by the being received from investors, analysts and Directors on page 100 that they consider advisers.
In the first quarter of this year, the Annual Report and Accounts, taken our Remuneration Committee met with as a whole, to be fair, balanced and shareholders as well as shareholder understandable.
The processes that underpin advisory groups to discuss its remuneration and support the Directors confidence in structure and seek feedback.
making this statement are long-established.
Additional disclosures in respect of how our We firmly believe our Board is committed Audit Committee addresses the key issues it to the highest standards of corporate has considered during the year can be found governance and will continue to develop on pages 76 to 79. its skills and capabilities, as well as promote the long-term success of the Group, over As mentioned earlier in this Annual Report the course of 2014 and beyond.
we welcomed three Independent NonExecutive Directors in December last year.
Our new Directors bring a wealth of experience in retail and commercial banking, real estate, asset management and finance.
We believe their expertise will Neil Janin further enhance the effectiveness of the Chairman Board and our Committees.
Mr Bradley, 10 April 2014 Mr Georgadze and Mr Djeclic will be proposed to shareholders for election as Directors at our next Annual General Meeting on 28 May 2014.
We are pleased to say that all of our six Independent Non-Executive David Morrison Directors are independent.
While we have Senior Independent Non-Executive Director maintained our interesting diversity of 10 April 2014 professional experience and geographic From left to right: Neil Janin Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings David Morrison Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2013 67
