Chairmans governance overview The UK Corporate Governance Code makes clear the principle that the Board should set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The right strategy As a Board, we set direction and risk appetite and provide oversight and control of management in the day-to-day running of the business.
As Chairman, I seek to ensure that adequate time is set aside at Board meetings for the open and collective discussion and debate of significant issues, most importantly, strategy.
Once a well-informed decision is reached, we empower management to then execute that decision, with our ongoing oversight and support.
This established process underpinned our endorsement of the Transform programme in early 2013 and the decision we made in July 2013 to undertake a rights issue.
The right risks and controls It is essential that our risk culture supports our risk profile and that we have visible and dedicated risk management leadership, both in the Boardroom and in executive management.
In 2013 we enhanced our internal control and risk management framework by creating a new Board-level committee charged with specific oversight of operational and conduct risks, reputational matters and our citizenship strategy.
We also created a Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee, whose role is to focus on a holistic view of our risk appetite and risk profile and to seek to identify potential future risk.
The right people Key for the Board is Talent development and succession planning are critical components of sustainable success and this starts at the very top, in the Boardroom.
ensuring that we have in It is vital that we have on the Board the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience, perspectives and, most crucially, place the right strategy, a independence of thought and action.
robust and appropriate risk All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the diversity required for an effective Board, including diversity of skills, management and control experience, background and gender.
The aims set out in our Board Diversity Policy, published in April 2012, were to have 20% of the Board framework and the right made up of women by the end of 2013, and for that position to have exceeded 25% by the end of 2015.
There were three women on the people to create long-term Barclays Board at the end of 2013 20%, compared to one woman at the end of 2012 8%.
Our Board Diversity Policy can be found on value for shareholders.
com Sir David Walker Chairman Board Gender Balance 31.12.13 31.12.12 1 Directors Men 12 11 2 2 Directors Women 3 1 1 46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Risk management Shareholder information Group overview 02 Good governance is vital in supporting Chief Executives strategic review 04 the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Strategy and operating environment 06 More information on the role of the Business model Value creation 08 Board and its Committees can be found Balanced Scorecard 10 in Corporate Governance in Barclays Group Finance Directors review 12 which is available online at Barclays.
com Strategic Risk overview 14 Performance review by division 18 Chairmans governance overview 46 Summary remuneration report 48 Our Board Sir David Walker 74 Group Chairman Dambisa Moyo 45 Non-executive Director Antony Jenkins 52 Group Chief Executive: Executive Director Frits van Paasschen 52 Non-executive Director Mike Ashley 59 Non-executive Director Sir Michael Rake 66 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Tim Breedon 56 Non-executive Director Diane fide Saint Victor 59 Non-executive Director Fulvio Conti 66 Non-executive Director Sir John Sunderland 68 Non-executive Director Simon Fraser 54 Non-executive Director Steve Thieke 68 Non-executive Director Reuben Jeffery 61 Non-executive Director Detailed biographies can be found on pages 83 to 85 Wendy Lucas-Bull 60 Non-executive Director Tushar Morzaria 45 Group Finance Director: Executive Director Board Governance Framework Barclays Board Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Board Corporate Board Financial Board Conduct, Board Audit Board Governance and Risk Committee Reputation and Committee Remuneration Nominations Operational Committee Committee Risk Committee Our Board Committees Governance in action Our Board Committees continued to support the delivery of our Board Committee Role strategic priorities during 2013: Board Enterprise Chaired by Sir David Walker Board Audit Committee: estimating customer redress provisions, in Wide Risk It takes an enterprise-wide view of risks and particular PPI redress provisions, was an area of focus for the Board Committee controls and brings together the overall risk Audit Committee in 2013.
The Committee played a key role in appetite and risk profile of the business evaluating and challenging the assumptions underlying the provisions made.
Board Audit Chaired by Mike Ashley Committee It takes a largely backward-looking view, Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee: during focused on financial reporting and control 2013 the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee issues, including overseeing any control issue spent time on developing Barclays approach to Conduct Risk, remediation plans establishing what it means for Barclays and how we will manage it in a way that ensures positive outcomes for our customers and clients.
Board Conduct, Chaired by Sir David Walker Board Financial Risk Committee: the possibility of a Eurozone crisis Reputation and It takes a largely forward-looking view of remained during 2013, as the weak growth outlook continued to Operational Risk conduct risk, operational risk and reputation raise concerns about sovereign creditworthiness in some countries.
Committee risk, including recommending the level of risk The Board Financial Risk Committees focus was on continuing to Barclays is prepared to take reduce Barclays exposure to redenomination risk.
Board Financial Chaired by Tim Breedon Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee: executive Risk Committee It takes a largely forward-looking view of succession and talent management are a critical component of financial risk appetite and financial risk profile long-term success.
2013 saw the Board Corporate Governance and credit, market, liquidity and funding risk Nominations Committee increase its focus on talent management.
across Barclays Board Remuneration Chaired by Sir John Sunderland You can read more about Governance in Action in the Committee It sets the overarching principles and Corporate governance report, which is available on parameters of remuneration policy across pages 52 to 77 Barclays and approves remuneration arrangements for executive directors, senior The activity of the Board Remuneration Committee during 2013 is executives and individual remuneration described in the Remuneration report.
awards Board Corporate Chaired by Sir David Walker Governance and It makes recommendations on Board and Nominations Board Committee composition and Committee effectiveness, Board and executive succession plans, talent management strategy and corporate governance barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2013 47
