Strategic report Governance Financial statements Letter from our chairman There is, and historically there has been, throughout the company and the group, a commitment to high standards of corporate governance.
The groups system of governance has been designed to establish, implement and maintain effective cooperation, internal reporting and communication of information at all relevant levels within the group.
The boards role is to set the companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the company to meet its objectives and review management performance.
The board met regularly throughout the year and in May we held a board strategy day and discussed and challenged the groups strategy and five year business plans.
The board and its committees met regularly during the year with near 100% attendance from all members.
We promote a culture of openness and debate at each meeting and seek and receive constructive challenge from the non-executive directors to help develop proposals on strategy and other matters.
The group recognises the value from regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the board and, following last years external assessment, we conducted a self assessment in 2013 through a questionnaire.
Whilst there are no matters of significance to report, we have developed some actions to support further improvement in our governance processes.
We ensure directors continually update their skills through individual development plans and board training.
The group believes in the importance of diversity for board and group effectiveness and has developed a diversity strategy to support our commitment to being an equal opportunities employer.
We are committed to ensure appointments are ultimately made on merit against selection criteria.
Further details of our policy are set out in the nomination committee report.
During 2013 we welcomed Angela Crawford-Ingle to the board and she assumed the chair of the audit and risk committee from Gordon Hamilton, who left the board in March.
Details of the search process are set out in the nomination committee report.
We would like to thank Gordon for his valued contribution during his time on the board.
The provision of timely, accurate and appropriate information to the board and committees is key to good governance, and during the year we implemented electronic board management information.
This ensures that information is easily available through a secure medium.
I am pleased to confirm the company has complied with the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, with the exception regarding attendance at the AGM.
Further details are set out in the statement of corporate governance.
Details of the activities of the board and its committee are set out on pages 62-63.
The directors remuneration report incorporates the additional disclosures consistent with the UK governments new regulations on remuneration reporting.
