Chairmans introduction Our Code of Business Conduct The Board requires that all employees adhere to the highest possible standards of professional and ethical conduct and this applies equally to the Board itself.
Each function within the Group operates with policies and minimum standards and the following principles: Business practices We shall engage in honest, professional and ethical conduct and maintain effective procedures to prevent confidential information being misused Dealing with customers We shall treat customers fairly, openly and honestly and operate an effective complaints process to address any perceived departure from these standards Dealing with shareholders and other stakeholders Mike Biggs, Chairman We shall seek to maximise shareholder value over time, recognising that wealth generated also benefits customers and employees as well as the communities where we operate Direct Line Group believes that the combination of a good governance structure, a strong Dealing with employees We shall maintain a working environment that attracts, values-based culture and the highest standards motivates and retains employees and shall be intolerant of corporate behaviour stimulates value creation.
of any type of discrimination, harassment or victimisation Dealing with suppliers of goods and services and Dear shareholders and other stakeholders business partnerships We shall maintain the highest possible standards of At Direct Line Group, we are committed to meeting the high integrity in business relationships with suppliers and standards of corporate governance rightly expected of a partners by treating them honestly and with respect and Group such as ours.
Having complied with the UK Corporate 1 avoiding compromising offers of gifts and hospitality Governance Code in relation to the key Board structure and processes by the time of the IPO in 2012, we undertook a Dealing with communities and the environment governance review in 2013.
This was designed to further test We shall contribute to the social and economic whether we have the most appropriate governance framework well-being of those communities where we are an fit for a stand-alone listed company, with clarity as to employer and encourage employees to participate in accountabilities and responsibilities.
projects and initiatives to strengthen those communities Our objective of good corporate governance influences Dealing with competitors everything that we do at Direct Line Group and is the We shall compete with competitors honestly and in responsibility not only of the Board and the executive accordance with competition law management but of every member of staff.
Dealing with regulators We shall maintain a constructive and open relationship Our Code of Business Conduct governs our interactions with with our regulators to foster mutual trust, respect and our various stakeholders and ultimately helps with our goal understanding and shall not offer anything to officials of becoming Britains best retail general insurer.
This is set in return for favourable treatment out alongside.
You may view our ethical code for suppliers on our website www.
Our values Do the right thing Aim higher Work together Take ownership Say it like it is Bring all of yourself to work For our people, our customers, our Strive to be the best in every area of the Collaborate across all levels and across Treat it like its OUR business: take the Be real, authentic and true to self: have Be the best you can be, the real and shareholders and our wider stakeholders: business: be ambitious, courageous and all functions: leverage the skills, knowledge initiative, if you can see a better way, adult to adult conversations with all whole you: celebrate our diversity of skills, make decisions based on what is right, innovative: relentlessly challenge and and experience, irrespective of hierarchy, go make a difference: take decisions, audiences: listen, seek to understand experiences and personalities: be a role not what is easy: demonstrate personal improve: seek and embrace change: to deliver the best possible results: develop be accountable for your actions in and respect diversity of views: be open, model to others, demonstrate can do and professional integrity: do whats learn from our mistakes: persevere, always relationships based upon trusting each whatever role you carry out: take call out issues we see: share information spirit, have fun and make this a great right for the long-term sustainability deliver our promises and dont settle for other, partnerships and win-wins: recognise responsibility for your own personal and keep things as simple as possible.
place to be: be excited about our of our business.
Company and our future: believe in yourself, feel confident and empowered.
50 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance We also place great emphasis on the values set out below that Consequently, individual components of the governance underpin these business principles.
As we reported to you last framework are now more clearly articulated and aligned to year, the executive management engaged with employees to the expectations of the Board.
The framework as a whole is shape these, with the intention that they become central to our considered fit for purpose to support our strategic priorities approach and behaviours.
In line with those values, we seek as a dynamic retail general insurance business, rather than to maintain an environment where everybody feels responsible as a division within a large bank.
for the future success of the business and is empowered to do I believe that this exercise will increase ownership and the right thing.
oversight and that our governance arrangements have become Board composition more transparent and effective.
The Board comprises myself as Chairman independent upon Diversity appointment to the Board, five independent Non-Executive We are strongly committed to the merits of diversity at Board Directors, one Non-Executive Director nominated by RBS Group level and throughout the Group.
33% of the Board are women and therefore not independent, and two Executive Directors.
and we are keen to maintain this representation at around the The changes in directorate during 2013 were in respect of current level.
During the year, the proportion of women on the the Directors nominated by RBS Group.
Mark Catton stepped Executive Committee increased from 10% to 20% that is, two down from the Board when RBS Group ceded control of the women on a Committee of 10, namely Sara Gomez, Group Company in March 2013 whereupon RBS Group became Human Resources Director, and Angela Morrison, Chief entitled to nominate only one and not two Directors to the Information Officer.
In October 2013 he was reappointed when Bruce Board effectiveness review Van Saun resigned in order take up an appointment as RBS Our intended practice is to conduct a thorough review of the Groups Chief Executive Officer, Citizens and Head of effectiveness of the performance of the Directors, the Board as Americas in the United States.
Mark Catton will step down a whole and its committees on an annual basis, with the input as a Director when RBS Groups holding in the Company falls of an external facilitator at least once every three years.
Given that the Board was largely new to the Company Governance review last year in the run up to the IPO, I felt it was appropriate to To help meet our goals of efficiency and strong governance, assess its performance at the same time as reviewing the main the Board undertook a planned post-IPO review of the Groups elements of the Companys governance architecture.
the Company appointed Edis-Bates Associates to assist us as independent external facilitators.
A description of the process Its aims were to clarify and simplify the governance framework, and the findings of the evaluation are set out on page 63. so as to help improve our day-to-day business operations while maintaining appropriate controls.
As a result of the review, we have re-engineered the High Level Controls and System of Governance Document, Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework, Group Policies and Minimum Standards to remove unnecessary content, close gaps, reduce Michael N Biggs, Chairman duplication and give greater focus and accountability to each 25 February 2014 element.
Further details are provided in this report on page 60.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51
