Chairmans letter A strong and diverse Board Dear Shareholder On 27 March 2013, the Group passed a signi cant milestone in its 14 year history with a successful listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Becoming a public limited company was a natural step for a company of our size, in uence and ambition.
Furthermore, it enabled the Group to enter the market free of debt and well-placed to deliver for its shareholders.
I would therefore like to welcome you to our first corporate governance report as a public limited company and stress our commitment to the high standards of corporate governance that underpin our sound framework for the control and management of our Business.
As a major UK general insurer, the Group has, since 2000, been regulated, most recently by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
We are, therefore, familiar and comfortable with the corporate governance practices and principles expected of a listed company as many have been long established in Peter Wood the Business.
Chairman The Group also complies fully with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the corporate governance requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Financial Services and As part of our succession planning, and as previously Markets Act 2000 FSMA and regulations made thereunder announced, Andrew Whitehouse stepped down as an applicable to it as a result of its insurance and insurance Executive Director of the Company in February 2013. mediation businesses.
Andrew remained a member of the Executive Committee until his retirement from the Group in November 2013.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues, David Calder and Charles Schrager von Altishofen resigned suppliers, partners and stakeholders on behalf of the Board as Non-Executive Directors upon our Admission on 27 March for their commitment and hard work throughout the year.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of Our people are central to our ongoing success.
We continue them for their support over the years.
to invest in their training and development, and in their environment and well-being to make the Group a great In order to facilitate the transition of the Board post IPO, it place to work.
remains important to retain both Peter Ward and Anthony Hobson as Non-Executive Directors owing to their extensive experience and detailed knowledge of the Business.
I am very pleased to report that during 2013 we appointed three new Directors.
On 10 June, Mike Evans was appointed Governance contents as a Non-Executive Director: he is a member of the Audit, Page 36 Leadership Remuneration and Risk Committees.
On 31 July, we appointed Shirley Garrood as a Non-Executive Director: she is a member E ectiveness Page 38 of the Audit, Remuneration and Investment Committees: and on 9 December we appointed Mara Dolores Dancausa as Accountability Page 40 a Non-Executive Director.
As you will see from our Annual Report, these additions give the Board impressive breadth Directors Remuneration Report Page 48 and depth.
esure Group Annual Report 2013 34 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Following the appointments of Shirley Garrood and Mara The UK Corporate Governance Code Dolores Dancausa, the percentage of women on the Board has increased to 40% this year.
This compares extremely We are rmly committed to high standards of corporate favourably with our peers in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 governance and maintaining a sound framework for the indices of companies.
We remain committed to advocating control and management of the Business.
The Group has diversity and equality at the top of our organisation while been subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code from continuing to make appointments based on objective criteria its date of Admission on 27 March 2013.
However, in to ensure we appoint the best individuals with diverse anticipation of Listing, the Board adopted a number of experience and backgrounds for the role.
We will continue measures with regard to its governance arrangements in to ensure such considerations remain a focus when making order to be in a position to comply with the principles and any new appointments to the Board in future.
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code from that date.
Throughout the period from 27 March 2013 to 31 December 2013, the Group has been in compliance with the principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Further information on the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found at www.
uk Peter Wood Chairman Our governance structure The Board Audit Nomination Investment Risk Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee esure Group Annual Report 2013 35
