Members Finally, the committee reviewed the current composition of the board and independence of non-executive directors, and recommended to Name Membership status shareholders all directors for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Carl-Henric Svanberg chair Member since September 2009: Committee review committee chair since January 2010 The committee undertook an annual evaluation of its effectiveness and Paul Anderson Member since April 2012 performance, using a questionnaire.
The review concluded that there had Antony Burgmans Member since May 2011 been an improvement in the timeliness of distribution of pre-read and that the longer session focusing on board composition, skills and the t with Cynthia Carroll Member since May 2011 the groups strategy had been valuable and should be repeated annually.
Ian Davis Member since August 2010 Brendan Nelson Member since April 2012 Chairmans committee Role Andrew Shilston, as the senior independent director, attends all meetings To provide a forum for matters to be discussed amongst the non-executive of the committee.
Activities during the year Tasks The committee met four times during the year.
At the start of the year, the t Evaluate the performance and the effectiveness of the group chief committee reected on the output of the annual evaluation and determined a rhythm for their meetings during the year.
This would include one longer executive GCE.
t Review the structure and effectiveness of the business organization meeting which would review board composition and skills in the light of the companys strategy.
t Review the systems for senior executive development and determine The committee considered the time commitment required from nonthe succession plan for the GCE, the executive directors and other executive directors and in particular chairs of committees in discharging senior members of executive management.
The committee determined that the time t Determine any other matter which is appropriate to be considered by all commitment of directors had increased and this should be made clear to of the non-executive directors.
those who may join the board.
t Opine on any matter referred to it by the chairman of any committees The membership of the board had been substantially refreshed over the comprised solely of non-executive directors.
previous three years which has resulted in no director now being Members scheduled to retire earlier than the 2016 AGM.
Therefore the committee during the year reviewed the current skills of the board and those required The committee comprises all the non-executive directors who join the committee at the date of their appointment to the board.
The chief by the board over the coming years as the companys strategy is implemented.
executive attends the committee when requested.
In conducting this review the committee initiated interviews with all Activities directors.
The conclusion of the review was that whilst the current boards The committee met six times during the year.
skills matched those presently required, in seeking future candidates there The committee reviewed: should be a greater focus on the business of BP, US government relations and, possibly, Russia.
All of this was against the background of the boards t The performance of the chairman and the chief executive early in the clear aspirations on diversity and the work of the international advisory year.
Parameters were set for evaluations in 2014. board in supporting the chairman and the chief executive on geo-political t The developing position in the US Courts in respect of the issues.
implementation of the settlement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, including the business economic loss claims and the As part of the review, directors were asked to comment on how the board activities of the Claims Administrator, the federal judge and the appeals should work in future given that the company had substantially emerged court.
The work of Judge Freeh was also considered.
from the crisis in the Gulf of Mexico.
The main conclusions were: t A number of issues relating to the companys strategy in the light of the t The board was moving towards a more normal rhythm.
Its operation had views of shareholders and the market more generally.
improved over the past three years.
The goal should be simplication t The chief executives succession plans for the executive team and senior and clarity in materials and discussion.
Substantial progress had been leaders.
The committee also considered the organization and operation made.
t The board should continue its focus on strategy and performance, with the committees taking the lead on monitoring.
Tasks of the board and committees and their agendas should be reviewed to ensure that the board was addressing the relevant strategic challenges and the committees were complete in their monitoring task.
t There should be further focus on major projects and capital investment to ensure that value was being created.
Against this background, the committee continued to work with an executive search rm to identify potential candidates and to engage with them as appropriate.
The committee was aware of the boards aspirations on gender diversity.
It is important, in the committees view, that any candidates have the requisite skills to join the board.
Potential candidates with a diverse background have been identied, and it is anticipated that an appointment will now likely be made in 2014.
80 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
