Annual bonus Chairmans annual statement It was a good year for BP with improved safety, new discoveries and operations, a strengthened portfolio and benets already accruing from the companys new relationship in Russia.
Overall group performance exceeded annual plan levels and resulted in a score of 1.32 times target.
Performance was assessed relative to metrics set at the start of the year and reecting the companys strategy and key performance indicators.
Safety and operational risk management accounted for 30% of annual bonus.
Led strongly from the top, this continued to show encouraging progress with particularly significant reductions in tier 1 process safety events and loss of primary containment both important measures of process safety.
Results this year confirm that it remains a constant priority throughout the business.
The company also made good gains in restoring value, which accounted for 70% of annual bonus.
Underlying replacement cost profit and total cash costs were both better than plan targets, while operating cash ow achieved target levels.
Key operating performance was also positive with important major projects commissioned and a significant improvement in unplanned Upstream deferrals.
Downstream operations demonstrated high availability and good safety results but profitability was impacted by a Our remuneration system has worked difficult business environment affecting renery margins.
appropriately during difficult times, and I am Deferred bonus confident it will continue to do so as The first of the deferred bonus share awards, implemented in 2010, became eligible for vesting at the end of 2013.
Vesting was dependent on performance returns to healthy sustained levels.
safety and environmental sustainability performance over the period from 2011 through 2013.
Our review confirmed very positive results during this period with consistent improvements in key metrics and no major incidents.
Based on this positive result, the deferred and matched shares for this period vested fully.
Dear shareholder Performance shares BP continued the disciplined and systematic execution of its strategy The 2011-2013 performance share plan, the first plan commencing after during 2013, focusing on safety and operational risk management, and on the Deepwater Horizon incident, focused on value creation, reinforcing restoring value.
As in 2012, there were many positive steps in the recovery safety and risk management and rebuilding trust.
50% of the award was journey during 2013 including improved safety, a strengthened portfolio dependent on total shareholder return which failed to make the threshold and a new future in Russia.
I encourage you to read about these in more required for vesting.
Reserves replacement, accounting for 20% of the detail elsewhere in this annual report.
award, is expected to be very positive and progress relative to the strategic Remuneration for executive directors continues to be tied closely to this imperatives, accounting for the remaining 30%, was very encouraging.
overall recovery of the group.
The vast majority of potential remuneration is Overall, we expect nearly 40% of shares will vest, the highest in over based on outcomes relative to measures related directly to the companys 10 years.
strategy and key performance indicators.
In addition to a direct link to Other elements strategy, our remuneration system has a strong bias towards sustained Salaries were increased by just under 3% for Bob Dudley, Iain Conn and long-term performance, and our decisions regarding remuneration are Dr Brian Gilvary mid-year.
Pension increases reect normal plan rules and guided by key principles of informed judgement, fair treatment and valuation according to UK regulations.
The increased value reported for alignment with shareholders.
My meetings with shareholders this year Bob Dudley reects his promotion to group chief executive in 2010 which, have again been helpful in understanding perspectives and have led to a because his dened benefit pension is based on three-year average few modications to our policy.
remuneration, takes a number of years to reach a steady state.
In addition, Our report this year reects the new UK regulations on directors the reported value is calculated according to UK regulations and the remuneration and so is divided into an annual report on remuneration and a committee has been informed by the companys consulting actuaries that separate policy report.
The annual report on remuneration sets out and these signicantly overstate the value of his US pension increase.
explains the outcomes of the various elements that make up 2013 total Remuneration policy remuneration.
The policy report explains our proposed remuneration policy for the next three years which, subject to approval by shareholders, will Attracting and retaining top talent is a key objective of our approach to remuneration.
Our proposed policy, as summarized on page 98, remains come into effect from the AGM.
For both sections the information relating to executive directors whose remuneration is determined by the largely unchanged from that which has applied for a number of years and its continuity has been a stabilizing force during a period of company remuneration committee is presented separately from that relating to non-executive directors whose remuneration is determined by the full turbulence.
The core elements of salary, annual bonus, deferred bonus, performance shares and pension continue to provide an effective, relatively board.
simple, performance-based system that ts well with the long-term nature 2013 outcomes of BPs business and strategy.
I am pleased to report that remuneration for 2013, as summarized on Three modications have been included in our proposed policy as a result page 85, increased after several years where pay was signicantly of our dialogue with investors.
First, we have added a three-year retention depressed by the aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon incident.
It is period in the deferred bonus element for those matched shares that vest in particularly encouraging that a moderate portion of shares in the long-term the plan.
Second, we have made the vesting of performance shares more performance share plan has vested this year.
These outcomes reect stringent for those metrics based on performance relative to other oil strong and sustained performance with safety steadily improving, majors.
Finally, we have added a specic review of performance share operations performing well and a portfolio of assets growing through vesting to ensure that high levels of vesting are consistent with capital discipline and strong project management.
divestments of the last few years have made the company smaller but All of the above are explained in more detail in the policy report.
stronger, with improved potential to grow value.
82 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 Corporate governance s e r a h s e c n a m r s o f r r e P o t S a l a a r y c a n i d b s d e n e e n t e s i p e s u a c n o g b n d policy vote.
Details appear under resolution 19 in the Notice of Meeting, EDIP renewal and are consistent with those included in the policy report.
The executive directors incentive plan EDIP has provided the umbrella framework for share-based remuneration for BP executive directors since It is reassuring to see momentum building in the business, led by a it was first approved by shareholders in April 2000.
It was renewed both in talented top team with resolve and commitment.
Our remuneration 2005 and 2010 and will expire in April 2015 according to its current system has worked appropriately during difficult times, and I am confident mandate.
The UK Listing Rules require a separate approval for this plan it will continue to do so as and when performance returns to healthy despite it largely being a duplication of what is included in the new policy sustained levels.
report governed by a different regulatory regime.
Given that the EDIP is an Antony Burgmans important vehicle to implement the remuneration policy, we concluded that Chairman of the remuneration committee it was appropriate to bring its renewal forward to coincide with the first 6 March 2014 Remuneration the big picture 2013 deferred Policy see page 101 bonus outcomes 2010 deferral see page 87 2013 bonus 2011-2013 Safety and environmental outcomes plan outcomes see page 86 sustainability see page 88 performance Performance Performance measures reect strategy relative to annual plan and KPIs Policy Policy see page 100 Strategy see page 102 Salaries reviewed annually taking account of both Home country norms apply internal and external 2013 salary 2013 pension comparators outcomes outcomes see page 86 see page 89 Policy Policy see page 100 see page 103 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 83 e e r a r s e f e m D 1 r 8 - o 1 f 9 P r e n e s i o n p y e s u K n o b l a u n n A
