British American Tobacco 44 Annual Report 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financials Governance Directors Report Chairmans introduction Dear Shareholder This year the Board approved a re-articulation of our Group strategy, Risk management links directly to strategy, and remains a significant our vision and our mission.
We re-emphasised the strategic pillars part of the annual agenda of our Board, Audit and CSR committees, and guiding principles that will help the business achieve its aims.
and our governance efforts across the Group.
We report to you Articulating a clear strategy is an important part of the Boards role on our key Group risk factors up front in our Strategic Report on and a means by which we, the current leadership, can focus the pages 24 to 29.
The Audit Committees report in this section gives efforts of the many people working in our organisation on creating you more detail on risk management and internal control and, as a sustainable platform for future growth and continuing to deliver required under the latest UK Corporate Governance Code, sets out outstanding shareholder returns with the highest standards in the significant issues the Committee considered in relation to our corporate governance.
My aim is to support our executive managements agenda for The Remuneration Committees report sees the most significant delivering the strategy by ensuring the Boards effectiveness.
Under new reporting requirements, we have set The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the out our remuneration policy and provided single total figures for the Company and how it is directed and controlled, so our performance pay and bonuses of each of our Executive Directors including a full as a team, and our individual contribution, is thoroughly tested in breakdown of how each element was determined.
I am pleased to report that the input At the end of this section, your Directors state their belief that this from our external facilitator of this years exercise was positive.
Annual Report, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and The detailed observations, and our 2014 action points, are set out understandable assessment of the Company and its prospects, and in this section.
the key performance indicators that measure it.
Before making this We are a diverse Board, in terms of both nationality and gender.
statement, we reconsidered and confirmed our confidence in the Seven nationalities are represented on the Board and a quarter of long-established processes that underpin its production and the our number are women.
We believe we form a strong team, with a advice of the Audit Committee which considered its accuracy, key broad range of professional backgrounds and styles.
Changes to the messages, and tone.
Board will continue to reflect the long-term demands of the business Engaging with our shareholders is a chance to talk more about our as we see it developing in the coming years.
assessment of the business, and to listen to their own views.
I value As the shape of our Board and senior management structures the opportunity to discuss many aspects of corporate governance should reflect our strategic direction, so too must our governance and strategy with our significant investors and analysts as part of structures.
This year we approved changes to our delegated our annual investor relations programme.
I look forward to more authorities framework which, while ensuring that the Board meetings with you in the run-up to, and at, our 2014 AGM.
retains appropriate oversight, will allow our fast developing nonRichard Burrows combustibles business to be governed in parallel with, but separately Chairman from, our established tobacco business.
The Board has confidence that the Groups risk management and internal control processes strike the right balance between fostering entrepreneurship within our business model and safeguarding our shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
Compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013 and to the date of this document, we applied the Main Principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code adopted in June 2012 the Code.
The Board considers that this Annual Report, and notably this section, provides the information shareholders need to evaluate how we have done so.
For ease of reference, we prepare a separate annual compliance report by reference to each provision of the Code.
This report is available at www.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and is available at www.
We comply with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules requirements for corporate governance statements by virtue of the information included in this section, together with the information contained in the other disclosures section.
