Governance Governance 73 73 Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report We also oversee and monitor where BT Our role does business, review the structure of our compliance training, and oversee our approach You can view our terms of reference to appointments to subsidiaries and associated on our website at companies boards and conicts of interest.
com committees Our role is to make sure there is an appropriate What we have done balance of experience and abilities on the We met four times during the year and the Board.
We also oversee BTs governance chart below shows how we allocated our time.
framework and key compliance programmes, We covered the same key areas as last year.
with a focus on non-financial assurance.
Allocation of time Nominating We keep under review the size and We continue to rene our composition of the Board and the need to refresh the membership so that we have the governance framework, and appropriate balance of skills, experience, ensure that our Board remains independence and knowledge of the group.
a diverse body with the right This includes keeping under review our policy on Board diversity including gender and any skills to provide strong and measurable objectives set for implementing effective leadership for BT.
We agree the specic experience and skills that we are looking for and consider candidates that are identied by the Board Sir Michael Rake and external consultants.
We ensure that diversity is considered as part of the shortlist process drawn up by our external consultants.
Governance & compliance Governance structure Having met potential candidates, we make a Who we are programmes 33% & effectiveness 17% recommendation to the Board.
Regional Governance Board membership At the request of the Board, I chair the Committees 28% & succession 12% We advise the Board on succession planning Nominating & Governance Committee Other 10% for all Board appointments and the Company although I would not participate in any Secretary.
We also make recommendations to discussion concerning the selection and the Board on the reappointment of nonappointment of my successor.
executive directors at the end of their terms of Nominating Our membership and meeting attendance ofce.
We keep under review the time required Board membership and succession areset out below.
of the non-executive directors to carry out During the year we kept under review the their duties and commitments and the number composition of the Board, and revised the skills The Company Secretary and, where of external directorships and other interests matrix to align with our business priorities, appropriate at my invitation, the Chief held by the Board and the members of the identifying the relevant skills under a number Executive attend our meetings.
The matrix will help inform the skills that would be useful when Committee members considering future Board appointments.
Governance and compliance In line with our revised terms of reference, Our focus is on exceptional candidates with Meetings we oversee and monitor BTs governance telecommunications and regional experience, Eligible framework including our regional approach and financial experts.
Member to attend Attended to governance so that it continues to be We recommended to the Board that the t for purpose to meet BTs business and Sir Michael Rake Chairman 4 4 appointment of Tony Ball be extended for organisational goals and is consistent with our Tony Ball 4 3 three years terminable on three-months approach to risk.
We have oversight of our a Eric Daniels 11 notice following the expiry of his first threekey compliance programmes.
This followed a rigorous evaluation ethics and business practices: sanctions and Rt Hon Patricia Hewitt 4 4 of his performance.
We reviewed Tony Balls international trade: regulatory compliance: Phil Hodkinson 4 4 other roles as well, to assure ourselves that he and data preservation and protection in the UK b Nick Rose 22 continues to be independent in character and and around the world.
We review the process judgement and that there are no relationships for, and effectiveness of, our whistleblowing a Eric Daniels retired from the committee on 13 June or circumstances that are likely to affect procedures, and we have a code of ethics for 2012. b this judgement.
Our Board appointments the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Nick Rose joined the committee on 30 October 2012. are subject to automatic termination in the and senior finance managers as required eventof a director not being elected or by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We keep under re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
review that the Board and its committees are appropriately receiving assurances on all major governance and compliance matters.
Governance Governance Governance Governance 74 74 The Board has reviewed the diversity policy relating to its own composition and has agreed Our Regional Governance Committee RGC structure that the policy adopted last year should continue in its current form.
Currently we have 30% female representation on the Board and Nominating & Governance Committee our aim is to continue to have at least 25%.
Succession planning is critical to all companies.
UK & Republic Europe RGC AsiaPac & US & Canada Latin America We have a process to identify people with the of Ireland RGC Middle East & RGC RGC potential to progress rapidly in the business Africa RGC and to nurture their personal development andcareer aspirations.
We believe strong and effective leadership in India South-East Asia the appointment process will make sure that Sub-Committee Sub-Committee we remain an organisation based on merit while providing the opportunity for talented individuals, whatever their background, to leadour business.
Governance structure and effectiveness We kept the membership of our Board We agreed that the next Board evaluation Regional Governance Committees committees under review.
We feel the would be conducted internally by electronic We endorsed the continued importance membership is right and the committees are questionnaire.
We sent this out in March of the RGCs, and continue to review their working well.
The Chairman will also conduct oneeffectiveness.
We approved some changes to the Board: to-one interviews with directors on their in the structure of the RGCs which is set performance and the Senior Independent outabove.
Karen Richardson became a member of the Director will conduct the annual evaluation of Audit & Risk Committee on 13 June 2012 We also approved some changes to the the Chairman.
The Board will discuss the results Phil Hodkinson stepped down from the terms of reference of the RGCs to make the of the questionnaire at a future Board meeting.
Audit & Risk Committee on 30 June 2012 principal accountabilities clearer: incorporated In line with the Code, we have also agreed to concentrate on the EAB a standard scorecard setting out key that the next evaluation will be undertaken Nick Rose joined the Nominating & performance indicators: and agreed a clearer externally, following a tender exercise Governance Committee on 30 October denition of the roles and accountabilities of conducted by the Company Secretary towards 2012 to facilitate the link with the Audit & the members of each RGC.
Risk Committee A RGC chair presents at each of our meetings, Gavin Neath joined the Committee for We reviewed the number of external with focus this year on: Asia Pacic, including Sustainable and Responsible Business as directorships and other interests held by the the work of the India sub-committee: Europe: an independent member on 1 November members of the Operating Committee.
Middle East and Africa: Latin America: and US 2012.
The chairs presentation includes: an We reviewed our terms of reference and Governance and compliance update on the progress of the key compliance recommended some changes to the Board.
Governance and compliance programmes programmes: highlights of any potential areas These were approved in April 2013.
The As part of our oversight of key governance of risk: an update on the risk register for their changes reect a further renement of some and compliance programmes, we give region: and the focus areas for the year ahead.
of our governance and compliance activities guidance on our compliance policies and The minutes of our meetings are sent, at their and sharpen the focus on our key roles.
During the year we endorsed request, to directors who are not members of the implementation of a new group-wide We evaluated our effectiveness through a the committee, where appropriate to do so.
policy on Gifts and Hospitality and reviewed questionnaire sent out in March 2012.
We the proposals for how we handle conicts of discussed the results in June and the overall interest.
We also discussed the proposal to effectiveness was rated 29% excellent and Sir Michael Rake revise The Way We Work, our statement of 71% good.
We felt that the extension of our Chairman of the Nominating business practice to provide more guidance governance role had had a positive impact and & Governance Committee and examples.
the introduction of the Regional Governance 9 May 2013 Committees RGCs was a good innovation.
We We reviewed the whistleblowing procedures considered that good progress had been made and at each meeting we received an overview on strengthening the Boards composition and of the condential hotline statistics and there was a general desire to do further work trends, as well as a summary of key cases and on succession planning.
We have reviewed this outcomes.
We reviewed recent changes to our at each of our meetings.
We agreed to evaluate customer and supplier trading policies and our effectiveness again by questionnaire, sent our proposed approach to doing business in out in March 2013, and we will review the certain countries.
We received updates on the results at a future meeting.
implementation of our agents programme and a report on the review of the governance structure within our lines of business.
