Governance Governance 64 64 Chairmans governance report As a Board, we provide strong leadership At our executive and senior management level in setting standards and values for our 20% are women, a proportion which we are company.
We keep our corporate governance aiming to increase.
framework under continual review and our We continue to engage in the wider Board committees play a vital role in ensuring governance debate and consultation exercises its effectiveness.
Our governance structure is that have taken place during the year.
We have shown in the diagram below.
Each committee responded to the Department of Business, chair has provided a report on the committees Innovation and Skills on the future of narrative role and what it has done during the year.
You reporting and executive pay disclosures as can read about this on pages 71 to 92.
As a well as participating in a Financial Reporting Board we have focused on a range of matters Lab project issued by the Financial Reporting from our future strategy for TV, mobility and Council.
wireless, BT Global Services, a review of cyber defence and the development of our Better Sir Michael Rake Future strategy, together with a regular review Chairman of the key risks to our business.
I continue to keep the membership of our Board under review, looking for exceptional Sir Michael Rake candidates to join us and ensuring we have the Chairman right mix of skills, experience and background.
I am personally 9 May 2013 Currently 30% of our Board members are women, and our aim is to continue to have committed to ensuring atleast 25% female representation.
that our Board is strong, We promote an inclusive working environment throughout our company and we aim to working effectively mirror the diversity, in its widest sense, of the societies in which we operate.
At 31March and able to respond to 2013, 21% of our people were women, in a sector that has traditionally been male the opportunities and dominated.
Our governance structure The Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the group, and has structured its committees as set out below.
BT Group plc Board Audit & Risk Nominating & Remuneration BT Pensions Committee for Operating Equality of Committee Governance Committee Committee Sustainable Committee Access Board Committee and Responsible Business Read the report Read the report Read the report Read the report Read the report Read more on page Read the report at 71 73 77 75 76 30 on page on page on page on page on page www.
com eab The Equality of Access Board EAB monitors, reports and advises BT on its compliance with the Undertakings given by BT to Ofcom the Undertakings.
The EAB reports regularly to the Board and publishes an annual report to Ofcom.
You can nd full details of the committee members and its remit in the EAB report at www.
