GOVERNANCE LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN.
CHAIRMANS LETTER This year has been an excellent year of growth for theGroup.
As we continue to focus on accelerating ourgrowth, our governance framework mustevolve with us.
A sound governance framework supports us in our decision making process and ensures a balanced outcome for all of our stakeholders.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that our governance across the Group is strong, clear and robust.
With a focuson organic growth and selective acquisitions, our governance must be of the highest JOHN STEWART, CHAIRMAN standard in order tomeet the Groups changing A sound governance framework supports needsand in addition to respond to regulatory us in our decision making process.
AsChairman, it is essential that I ensure that Board keep at the heart of our considerations we, as a Board, are prepared for new developments.
the interests of the Groups shareholders, Accordingly, we regularly review our governance customers and other stakeholders.
framework and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Iam pleased to report thatthe company has complied with all principles of the Code throughout the year ended31 December 2013.
For more information visit our website: investor.
cfm ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is accountable for the long term success ofthe company, for setting the strategic aims of the Group and its risk appetite, and is responsible for ensuring that the Group is appropriately resourced to achieve its strategic goals.
The Board also sets the tone for the Groups culture, values and ethical behaviours and we keep atthe heart of our considerations the interests of the Groups shareholders, customers and other stakeholders.
BOARD CHANGES AND DIVERSITY There have been a number of changes to our Board during the year: the retirements of three of our nonexecutive directors, the appointment of Mark Gregory asgroup chief financial officer and the appointments ofLizabeth Zlatkus and Lindsay Tomlinson as nonexecutive directors.
When making these changes, theBoard has remained conscious of the need to maintain a well balanced and diverse Board to ensure wecontinue to operate as effectively as possible.
In monitoring our Board composition we continue to consider not only the balance of skills and experience required but also how we can ensure that we have a diverse Board in terms of thought, background, experience and gender.
Although we do not have a set target in respect of the number of women on our Board, we endorse Lord Davies recommendations and continue to incorporate board diversity considerations into our thinking on the composition of the Board.
As a company, we believe that a diverse workforce is essential to the success of our business and the work 54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p050-069.
indd 54 14 03 2014 20:58 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Committee direct investments and infrastructure: digital solutions supports us in achieving this goal.
We have developed and expansion of retirement solutions.
The discussions a next generation women programme with the Bank were constructive and thought provoking and an excellent of England and many other FTSE 100 companies and basis from which to build the Groups strategic direction.
I am pleased to be involved in the FTSE 100 CrossCompany Mentoring Programme and the 30% Club, OVERSEAS VISIT which is committed to bringing more women on to The Board has in place a programme of site visits, both UK corporate boards.
domestic and international, and this year I was extremely pleased that the Board held its first overseas Board meeting We are also strong believers in developing the pipeline at the Legal & General America LGA ofce.
The visit oftalent from within our organisation.
I was extremely provided the Board with an excellent opportunity pleased that we were able to appoint Mark Gregory to meet the Board members of LGA and key members asthe Groups chief financial officer.
Mark previously ofthe management teams of both LGA and Legal acted as chief executive of the Savings business & General Investment Management America.
We found andhas served on the Board since 2009.
I believe this to be a highly beneficial trip and we hope that we thatMarksappointment as CFO is testament to our can replicate this success in future years.
commitment to developing talent within the Group.
EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION Henry Staunton, previously senior independent director, This year, we have seen the implementation of a vice chairman and Chair of the Audit Committee, retired number of changes to the narrative reporting regime, in May after serving on the Board for nine years.
Dame in particular the way in which we disclose and report Clara Furse stepped down from the Board in May after on executive remuneration.
As in 2012, you will see that four years of service to take up a position at the Financial the remuneration report includes both a forward looking Policy Committee and Nick Prettejohn stepped down section outlining the Groups remuneration policy inJune after two years of service in order to join the and a section reporting on implementation.
The Groups Prudential Regulation Authority as a non-executive remuneration policy is now subject to a binding director.
I am extremely grateful to Henry, Clara and Nick shareholder vote at the companys 2014 AGM.
Henrys commitment In preparation for these changes, the Remuneration and wisdom over his nine years of service were greatly Committee has spent a great deal of time considering the valued and Im pleased that both Clara and Nick have policy and consulting with shareholders.
Further details gone on to pursue senior positions in financial services of the policy and consultation process can be found on regulation and policy making.
Following these retirements I was very pleased to COMMUNICATIONS WITH welcome Lindsay Tomlinson and Lizabeth Zlatkus as SHAREHOLDERS ANDAGM non-executive directors, both of whom are valuable We welcome the opportunity to communicate with additions to our Board.
Lindsay brings us a wealth of allofour shareholders: both our institutional investors, experience from his time in the investment management some of whom we have met with during the year, industry and his non-executive roles, while Lizabeths andour retail investors.
The AGM provides a valuable insurance and international experience will be a great opportunity for all of our shareholders to hear more addition to us as we continue to pursue our strategy.
about how we have performed during the year and tomeet with our Board in person.
I look forward to The Nominations Committee report on page 62 sets sharing with you the successes of the company during out infurther detail the Board changes that have taken 2013 andwould encourage as many shareholders place during the year and our policy on diversity.
as possible to attend the AGM on 21 May 2014.
FOCUS ON STRATEGY The Board dedicates a considerable part of its time to considering the Groups future strategy in light of the previous years performance against set targets, the continuing challenges that face the UK and global economies and financial services companies, and the opportunities for growth.
A two day strategy event was JOHN STEWART held in 2013 at which the Board considered the Groups CHAIRMAN strategy with a focus on international growth of LGIM: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 55 80038 L&G p050-069.
