An introduction from our Chairman We have put in place robust and effective governance procedures At Partnership we believe that high Governance Board focus standards of corporate governance are As a privately owned company, we had During the year ended 31 December 2013, essential to support our strategy and already adopted governance procedures much of the Boards time has been focused underpin our core values FIRST: fairness, reecting those applicable to the listed on the Companys strategy following listing integrity, respect, service and trust.
This put us in a good and looking ahead over the course of the This section of our Annual Report position to achieve the goals identied next three-year planning period.
sets out our approach to governance within the Fit for Listing exercise which Supported by the Risk Committee, the and provides further information was undertaken to establish a robust Board has increased and deepened its on the operation of the Board and framework of corporate governance focus on risk over the period.
appropriate to the listed environment.
the Risk Committee is on page 53.
This project involved the review of all Changes to the Board and existing governance procedures and Diversity succession planning the implementation of changes or the introduction of new procedures where The Board continues to focus on improving During the year, in anticipation of the appropriate.
Since listing, a considerable diversity, including gender diversity.
Companys listing, we welcomed Ian amount of effort has been directed to The Board recognises the benefit Cormack, Marisa Cassoni, Douglas Ferrans ensuring that all procedures are properly throughout the Group in having access and Richard Ward to the Board.
Their skills embedded in the Companys operations.
to the diversity of input from people and experience complemented the skills of with a wide range of backgrounds and the existing non-executive Directors who During the period since Admission to nationalities.
The Board has an on-going were formerly directors of the Companys Listing on 12 June 2013, the Company commitment to strengthening female predecessor company.
Having engaged has complied with the UK Corporate representation on the Board.
external recruitment consultants, we have Governance Code issued in September appointed Simon Waugh to the Board 2012.
Following Marisa Cassonis replacing Robin Phipps, who resigned as a departure from the Board, Ian Cormack has Director on 7 March 2014.
Paul Bishop will been appointed as a member of the Audit be appointed to the Board on 1 May 2014 Committee to ensure compliance with Chris Gibson-Smith replacing Marisa Cassoni who ceased to be provision C. 3.1 of the Code on an interim Chairman a Director on 11 March 2014.
A shortlist basis until the appointment of Paul Bishop of candidates met with myself, the Chief to the Board on 1May 2014.
Simon Waugh Executive Officer and a selection of is appointed to the Remuneration non-executive Directors.
I and the Board Committee replacing Robin Phipps.
have worked to ensure that the balance of David Young has also been appointed on an skills and experience on the Board remains interim basis to replace Marisa Cassoni until appropriate.
Our Directors experience is the appointment of Paul Bishop on 1 May predominantly in the financial sector, and 2014 who will become a member of the principally insurance, which we consider Remuneration Committee.
appropriate for a business of this nature.
Details of the Directors are set out in this report.
During the year theBoard undertook a FitforListing exercise to establish arobust framework ofcorporate governance Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39
