44 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE BOARD PROMOTES HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY AND HAS A SOLID GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK IN PLACE.
LETTER OVERVIEW You will have read about the challenges that face the Company earlier in the Report.
We are operating in many challenging markets and the Board is committed to delivering on our key objectives: namely to improve the capital strength of the Company, optimise the Groups business portfolio and deliver a sustainable dividend into the future: to deliver long-term value to shareholders and provide an exceptional customer experience.
Throughout the year, the Board has reviewed and developed Company strategy to drive the business forward, adapting strategy as necessary.
We have a strong leadership team with wide ranging experience, expertise and capability and we understand the challenges that we face.
Our leadership has been tested during a challenging year in 2013.
The Board is confident in the quality of the management team as we enter 2014.
The Board promotes high standards of corporate governance throughout the Company and has a solid corporate governance framework in place.
The independent review undertaken by  LLP PwC to investigate the financial and regulatory reporting processes and controls within the Irish business, and Group oversight and controls of the Irish business, described the Groups System of Governance and Control Framework as appropriate in terms of structure and design for an international insurance group of our size and complexity, with elements of the frameworks design comparing favourably across the market.
This framework enables efficient and effective decision-making with clear responsibilities.
BOARD BALANCE AND COMMITMENT As Chairman of the Board, I am responsible for ensuring that the Board and its Committees operate effectively and have the right balance of skills and experience required.
The matters reserved for the Board, the Committee terms of reference and membership of each Committee have been reviewed to ensure they are appropriate and that Committees benefit from varied expertise.
In December, Simon Lee, Group Chief Executive, resigned with MARTIN SCICLUNA immediate effect.
As I said at the time, I would like to thank Simon for Chairman his contribution to the Company over the last decade.
He has provided leadership to the business over the last two years, a period that has featured a number of significant challenges.
In his previous role as Chief Executive of International he was instrumental in developing the Groups global portfolio.
In February 2014, I was delighted to welcome Stephen Hester as the new Group Chief Executive.
Stephen brings a wealth of experience and extensive global financial services expertise.
He has the unanimous support of all the directors and we are confident that, with the support of the Board and the Executive Committee, he will work quickly to take the Group forward.
During the year, two of our Non-Executive Directors, John Maxwell and Noel Harwerth, both of whom had served nine years on the Board, retired as directors of the Company.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their continued support and service to the Company during their time in office.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 45 In September, we welcomed a new Non-Executive Director, Kath BOARD TENURE Cates to the Board.
Kath has joined the Board with an extensive range A 0 to 3 years A of international experience, building on the diverse experience and 40% B 3 to 6 years skills we already have.
C 6 to 9 years Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May have indicated that they do not D Over 9 years intend to stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General D 20% Meeting and will retire as directors with effect from 8 May 2014.
With effect from that date, Johanna Waterous will succeed Edward Lea as the Senior Independent Director and Kath Cates will succeed him as Chair of the Board Risk Committee.
Jos Streppel will succeed Malcolm C Le May as Chair of the Group Investment Committee on the same 10% date.
I would like to thank Edward and Malcolm for their significant contribution to the Board over the last 11 and 10 years respectively.
We recognise the importance of diversity for Board effectiveness and are committed to achieving our diversity target which is set out B in my report on the Group Nomination Committee on page 61.
30% Throughout my first year as Chairman, I have kept the Boards performance under review with the aim of improving effectiveness.
Given the additional business challenges in respect of the investigation BOARD EXPERIENCE OF into Irelands financial and claims irregularities and the business review NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS being undertaken, my colleagues on the Board have demonstrated A UK A commitment and dedication in making themselves available to 28% B Europe contribute to the discussions and decisions to be made at short notice C Asia and I am grateful to them.
D Americas During 2013, a review of the executive directors remuneration framework was undertaken with the intention of simplifying the existing incentive arrangements, creating further alignment of these with shareholders interests and the Companys business strategy.
Its structure and terms satisfy the principal requirements of leading D UK corporate governance bodies in relation to remuneration policy.
29% B In addition a review of Non-Executive Directors fees was undertaken 29% during the year, which resulted in a targeted increase in fees following a benchmarking exercise.
Further details of the new Long-Term Incentive Plan the Performance Share Plan and Non-Executive Directors remuneration are detailed in the Directors Remuneration C 14% Report on pages 69 to 93.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Throughout the year, the Company has complied with the Principles BOARD DIVERSITY and Provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, with the exception of the period from 13 December 2013 to A Men A 80% 4 February 2014, when I performed the role of Executive Chairman on B Women an interim basis following the departure of Simon Lee on 12 December 2013.
Following the appointment of Stephen Hester, I have now reverted to my role as Non-Executive Chairman.
B 20% An external performance evaluation has been undertaken during the year to review the performance and effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual directors.
The evaluation focused on the Board environment, the work of the Board and time effectiveness.
Further details of the review can be found on page 54 of this Report.
Further information on compliance against the Main Principles of the Code is contained in the Directors Remuneration Report and Group Audit Committee Report as applicable.
2014 AND BEYOND We are determined as a Board to deliver on our key objectives and demonstrate our resilience in these challenging times to re-emerge as a stronger Group.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my fellow directors for the contribution and commitment they have made All information above as at 31 December 2013 to this end.
