Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 39 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Good corporate governance begins with having a Board whose Dear Shareholder, membership has an appropriate range of skills and experience, gained from the senior executive roles they hold, or have held, In this section of our Annual Report, we set out the measures we take, in other companies and from their experience as Non-Executive and the results we have achieved, to ensure that high standards of Directors of other companies.
Carillion has a strong, well-balanced corporate governance continue to be the cornerstone of Carillions Board, comprising four male and two female Non-Executive Directors, business.
This is essential to the success of our business and to giving and two male Executive Directors.
The performance of all Board shareholders, customers, partners, suppliers and the communities in members is reviewed and assessed each year to ensure that each which we work the confidence they need as stakeholders in Carillion.
member continues to make a strong and appropriate contribution to the Board.
Under the Boards direction, Carillion has put in place comprehensive policies, management structures and processes that are applied A clear division of responsibilities between those of the Board rigorously to ensure that the company complies with the requirements and those of the executive directors is also essential in achieving of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
But on its own this is not high-standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible enough.
To achieve consistently high standards of corporate for setting the Groups policies and procedures, for reviewing them governance, we recognise that we need a culture throughout the annually and, where appropriate, revising and updating them.
The Group in which high standards of ethics and integrity are natural Executive Directors are responsible for implementing these policies and instinctive and that the behaviour of all our people reflects our and the operating procedures and processes that support them.
The assurance framework within which the Board operates is based on management reports and presentations, on visits to the Groups operations and on meetings and discussions with a wide range of employees from across the Group.
This enables the Non-Executive Directors to maintain a good understanding of the Groups businesses, which is essential to the effective operation of the Board.
To create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are natural and instinctive, Carillion promotes, encourages and rewards behaviours that reflect our core values using a variety of measures, starting with top-down leadership and supported by training, local Philip Rogerson, values champions and values awards.
Through an annual employee Chairman survey, known as The Great Debate, we give our people the opportunity to provide feedback on a wide range of issues that concern them and to which Carillion is committed to respond.
In addition, managers and supervisors also seek to engage with their people at all levels to give them a voice in determining how they work and how our business develops.
We also believe that high standards of ethics and integrity include making the Health and Safety of our people and all those who are affected by our operations the top priority.
Carillion was the first in its sector to set a target of zero accidents on all its work sites.
To achieve this we have uncompromising policies and procedures, rigorous training programmes, covering both processes and personal behaviours, and we have empowered everyone in Carillion to stop and report any activity that they believe to be unsafe.
Carillion is also a leader in its sector in building a more sustainable business, which goes beyond the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in order to deliver services that create positive impacts on the environment and on the communities in which we operate.
This provides opportunities for our people to engage in voluntary work to support charities and other organisations in the communities in which they live and work.
In summary, the Board believes that through a combination of comprehensive policies, rigorous processes, strong leadership and measures designed to create a culture in which high standards of ethics and integrity are instinctive, strong corporate governance will continue to be the cornerstone of Carillions success.
