govERnAnCE: CHAIRmAnS govERnAnCE REvIEW goveRnAnCe 7491 chaIrmans RevIeW governance revIew our governance structure 75 Board of directors 76 management Committees 78 Compliance with the uK 80 Corporate governance Code other matters 85 Report of the Audit Committee 86 Report of the nomination Committee 90 Code the Code and ensuring that the operating activities of the group, and, while we already and controlling structures within our group are have clear and adequate procedures in place, we fit for purpose, so that decisions are made at the continue to encourage our staff to review their right level throughout.
own and each others activities, and to challenge each other if they think a matter appears We have clear approval guidelines for unusual or a process can be improved.
This commitments that are made, with all important supports our one Team approach to business, decisions and material approvals being which we continue to promote, along with our reserved for the Board.
Significant decisions other core values of Integrity, Excellence and and transactions that took place during the year, Commercial Acumen.
These four core values such as the 493 million equity placing, the underpin our behaviour throughout the business sale of Ropemaker Place for 461 million, the and are supported by our staff.
The values are 129 million acquisition of the Clarges Estate reinforced as we strive to ensure that our staff and the acquisition of the Wereldhave Portfolio enjoy a good working environment in which they for 178 million, were all approved by the are able to communicate and interact at all Board and its relevant subsidiaries, following levels, both in the work place and socially, and appropriate due diligence by management and through the staff volunteering opportunities consideration by the appropriate committees.
that are part of our extensive corporate responsibility programme.
This year the Board formalised its approach to determining the Companys risk appetite the Communication between a Company and its Good corporate governance level of risk which we are comfortable exposing shareholders is an essential element of a sound is one of British Lands the business to in pursuit of its performance governance framework.
At British Land we objectives.
The view of risk appetite is defined engage with our shareholders via a number values and is an integral by set thresholds for each of our identified key of pathways: Executive directors regularly part of our Group.
It ensures risk indicators and guides the strategy process.
communicate with shareholders through meetings and conference calls see page 83 : proper oversight by the The strategy is set out in pages 16 and 17. the Audit Committee monitor our Financial Board and ensures that Executives within the group are engaged with Statements to ensure they are of the quality and and fully support this strategy.
This means clarity required by our shareholders and I have our actions are closely that we have a common goal and that decision personally met with a number of shareholders aligned with our strategy.
making within the group is aligned.
The Board since my appointment as Chairman and, along ensures that any matters it approves are with the rest of the Board, look forward to JoHn gILdeRsLeeve in line with the strategy that has been agreed.
meeting and talking to many more.
our Annual Chairman general meeting Agm provides all of our The corporate governance framework and shareholders with an opportunity to question recommended best practice continue to be their directors and feedback any comments refined.
In September 2012 the Financial they may have on the Companys performance.
Reporting Council revised the Code and issued We also recognise the important contribution new guidance on Audit Committees.
These made by providers of capital other than changes, which are welcomed by the Board, are shareholders, namely our bank lenders and applicable to our next financial year ending 31 bond holders.
We maintain a regular and open march 2014, but many of the changes have been dialogue with our lenders to help us understand incorporated into this years Report.
The basics their appetite and investment criteria.
of good corporate governance remain the same: we maintain a corporate structure that The pages that follow explain how we have d ear shareholder, encourages honesty and openness, ensuring applied the main principles of the Code Welcome to the corporate governance section that decisions are made by the right people, throughout the year.
We also explain our of British Lands Annual Report.
during his time with access to all the relevant information: governance structure and the various as Chairman, Chris gibsonSmith focused on and committees that govern our approval and the importance of good corporate governance we ensure that appropriate people and operating procedures.
The Board support the to both British Lands shareholders and the structures are in place to support our agreed principles of good corporate governance and Company itself.
All of our directors, both strategy.
believe that we comply with those principles.
Executive and nonExecutive, believe that strong corporate governance is key if we are The Board are responsible for ensuring that to maintain a wellled Company which adds these arrangements are in place: the annual value and delivers performance for investors.
Board evaluation page 82 assesses how I look forward to maintaining best practice in effective the Board is at fulfilling its corporate governance, now that I have taken responsibilities.
The relatively small number of on the role of Chairman.
We continue to achieve staff and clear reporting lines mean Executive John gildersleeve this by following the uK Corporate governance directors are aware of or involved in all the Chairman 74 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review
