LETTER FROM REPORT OF THE THE CHAIRMAN RISK COMMITTEE OF THE RISK COMMITTEE At the start of the year the Committee consisted of June fide Moller, John Burns and Damian Wisniewski and was chaired by Stephen Young.
In August 2013, Richard Dakin joined the Committee and June fide Moller took over the chairmanship.
Roles and responsibilities The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Meetings It is intended that the Committee meet twice a year with extra meetings convened if necessary for it to discharge its duties.
Work of the Committee During the year the Committee: Reviewed the Groups risk register.
Received presentations from senior management concerning the controls over certain parts of the business.
Commissioned an external review of the Groups risk JUNE fide MOLLER assessment process and its internal and external risk CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE management reporting.
Facilitated an online training course for all employees to Dear Shareholder, increase staff knowledge of the 2010 Bribery Act.
I took over as Chairman of the Committee from Stephen Young Considered a report from the Groups legal advisors in August and am pleased to present the report of the Risk concerning potential regulatory risks over the next 12 months.
Reviewed the Groups register of hospitality and gifts maintained under the Groups Bribery Act procedures.
The Committee has seen certain risks that were identified last year diminish in importance over the year such as Eurozone Reviewed the Groups register of potential conflicts of interest.
concerns and the state of the UK economy where, particularly Reviewed the Committees terms of reference.
in London, growth appears to have taken root.
However, these risks have been replaced by some equally significant ones namely the potential effect of both the Scottish independence JUNE F. fide MOLLER vote, the UK referendum on EU membership and cyber CHAIRMAN OF THE RISK COMMITTEE risk.
These serve to keep the perceived level of risk in the 27 FEBRUARY 2014 economy high.
Within this environment the Committee has kept under review the effectiveness of the controls that the Group operates.
This has seen an increase in the size of the health and safety team and an overhaul of its reporting framework together with an external review of the Groups risk assessment process and external training on the requirements of the 2010 Bribery Act.
Whilst the results of the review of the risk assessment process were generally favourable, a number of improvements were identified and these will be built into the Groups procedures over the next 12 months.
To read more about our risk management activities see pages 28 to 32 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2013 111
