CHAIRMANS LETTER ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dear Shareholder, Sustainability The new requirement this year to report the Groups greenhouse gas On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Groups 2013 emissions is indicative of the pressure to improve both practices and Corporate Governance Report.
reporting within the sustainability arena.
At the start of the year we The Company is subject to the provisions and principles of the UK recruited a Head of Sustainability, a new role in the Company, to Corporate Governance Code the Code which was introduced by coordinate and improve our performance in this increasingly important the Financial Reporting Council FRC in 2010 and revised in 2012. area.
We were pleased when our efforts were externally recognised The Board believes that, in 2013, the Company has complied with with a gold award in the EPRA Sustainability Reporting Awards 2013. the main and supporting principles of the Code except for provision A summary of the Groups sustainability report is given on pages 58 B.
This provision addresses the independence of non-executive to 61 and the full document is available on the Groups website, Directors and the Companys approach to this matter is discussed www.
Remuneration The year has seen Corporate Governance remain high on the agenda Final guidance concerning the regulations of the Department for Business, for the business world both because of the high profile governance Innovation and Skills BIS was issued by GC100 and Investor Group in failures reported in the media and also because of the number of September 2013 and our report of the Remuneration Committee is changes that became effective during 2013.
This elevated profile compliant with this guidance.
means that both at the Board level and in the everyday operations of the Group, significant time and resource is committed to Whilst adapting to the new requirements and guidance, the governance matters not only to ensure compliance with the Remuneration Committee updated the structure of the Directors framework of regulations but also in order to deliver the sustainable remuneration.
This has involved consultation with the Groups major and successful business which Derwent London aims for.
shareholders on the new structure.
Details of this, together with information on the other work of the Committee, are set out in the Many of the changes to the governance regulations that became report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 92 to 109. effective this year were announced during 2012 and we complied, as far as possible, with these last year.
During the year, the guidance Audit issued by various bodies has clarified the requirements of the changes The Board has looked for guidance from the Audit Committee on and in some cases this has led to us refining our disclosure and whether the Groups report and accounts are fair, understandable conduct to ensure compliance.
At the same time, some of the and balanced a requirement of the Code introduced in 2012. measures that we have introduced over the last few years have been The work that the Committee undertook to advise the Board on this augmented as the matters concerned take on increasing importance.
issue is set out in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 113 I have highlighted a number of these developing areas below.
This report also provides the background to the audit tendering process which the Committee is conducting and which Risk will be completed in March 2014.
Given the length of tenure of BDO, As risk management continues to move up the business agenda, the Committee had been considering tendering the audit for a the activity of our Risk Committee has become more important and number of years.
With the increased focus on the subject it became increasingly embedded in the Groups activities.
During the year convinced that the correct time had now arrived.
One of the the Committee oversaw the running of an on-line training course consequences of the recent EU guidelines on this matter is that to improve staff knowledge of the Bribery Act and its implications.
our incumbent Auditor, BDO, declined to take part in the tender.
This new piece of wide-ranging legislation has necessitated the On behalf of the Board I would like to thank them for their introduction of a number of new procedures: the Committee conscientious work and commitment during their time as our Auditor.
considered this to be an area where more comprehensive education was needed to ensure that staff understood the legislation Whilst the other committees come to terms with the new regulations and appreciated the importance of the additional procedures.
during 2013 the Nominations Committee continued to review the The Committee also commissioned external advisers to advise composition of the Board, having particular regard to its diversity, on the Groups risk assessment and risk reporting procedures.
and to manage both the ongoing process of refreshment and the succession of senior management effectively.
Further details of the work of the Risk Committee are given on page 111 and the Groups risk management processes are detailed on As in previous years, I would encourage you to attend the Groups pages 28 to 32.
Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2014 and take the opportunity to meet the management team at this important event.
ROBERT A. RAYNE CHAIRMAN 27 FEBRUARY 2014 Previous pages: White Collar Factory, Old Street EC1 74 Governance
