LETTER FROM THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF NOMINATIONS THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE COMMITTEE At the start of the year the Committee consisted of John Ivey, Robert Farnes, June fide Moller and Stephen Young under the chairmanship of Stuart Corbyn.
Stephen Young left the Committee in August 2013.
All members are considered independent by the Company having no day-to-day involvement with the Company.
Roles and responsibilities The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website.
Meetings The Committee meets at least once a year to plan and, if appropriate, carries out the annual appraisal of the Board and its Committees.
Further meetings are arranged, as required, to discharge the Committees responsibilities in connection with identifying and nominating new Board members.
The Committee met three times in 2013.
Work of the Committee STUART CORBYN During the year the Committee has carried out the following tasks: CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Led the annual appraisal of the Board, its Committees and the Chairman.
The appraisal was carried out by Lintstock, an Dear Shareholder, independent corporate advisory firm which provides no other services to the Group.
I am pleased to present the Nominations Committees report for 2013.
Reviewed the Groups succession planning for executive and non-executive Directors and senior management.
In last years report I noted that it was the Committees intention to appoint a further independent non-executive Director in Completed the recruitment process for a non-executive 2013.
This was achieved in August with the appointment of Director having regard to the qualities that had been identified Richard Dakin.
The appointment followed a rigorous recruitment as required at the start of the process.
Subsequently the process initiated by Spencer Stuart, the independent executive Committee made a recommendation to the Board that search agency, providing the Committee with a comprehensive Richard Dakin be appointed based on his property finance and diverse list of high quality candidates.
The Committee and real estate experience.
reduced this to a shortlist of potential applicants and a series Completed the policy of change and refreshment of the of interviews was undertaken which resulted in Richard being Board which was commenced in 2010. identified as the strongest candidate.
Adjusted the size and membership of the Board Committees Whilst this completes a process started in 2010, the size of the following the appointment of Richard Dakin in August 2013.
Board means that there is a continuous need for refreshment.
Identified areas of experience that a new non-executive An important aspect of this process is to consider the diversity Director should possess in order to further strengthen of the Board paying particular attention to its gender diversity the Board.
and, as noted in the Directors report, the Board aims to appoint Considered whether the Committees recruitment procedure at least one additional female Director by 2015.
To this end the was adequate given the gender diversity matters raised by Committee will again stress the need for a diverse list of capable Lord Davies.
candidates to the executive search agency to be used in Reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee.
recruiting a further non-executive Director in 2014.
In planning the refreshment of the Board, the Committee also has to consider and address the need for a smooth and STUART A. CORBYN effective succession process at a senior level.
CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE 27 FEBRUARY 2014 110 Governance
