GOVERNANCE REPORT CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION I am very pleased to introduce my first Governance Report as Chairman of the Board of Hammerson plc.
I joined the Board in January 2013 and succeeded John Nelson as Chairman in May 2013.
The Companys objective is to create retail destinations by months between Board meetings to allow for matters developing high-quality property, maximising income and requiring attention at that time.
Later this year the Board will ensuring capital strength.
Therefore, during my first year on evaluate whether this approach works and I will report on the Board I have taken the opportunity to gain insight into our conclusions next year.
Regular Board dinners are also now the business and understand how the Company delivers its held on the evening preceding the Board meetings with all objectives by meeting our people throughout the Company Directors and the Company Secretary normally invited to and visiting our retail destinations in the UK and France.
These provide an invaluable opportunity for the Board forward very much to leading the Board through the next to discuss topics in an informal and constructive environment phase of the Companys evolution and achievement of its outside the more formal setting of the Board meeting.
Further details of my induction are that this fosters openness and effective debate between provided on page 65.
Directors while developing strong working relationships.
The business is in very good shape, focused wholly on retail BOARD EFFECTIVENESS property.
The management team has huge expertise in this The Board appreciates the insights gained from an independent sector and has forged close relationships with its retail and external evaluation of its effectiveness and that of its other customers in the UK and France.
During the autumn such an evaluation was development pipeline and a strong balance sheet, we have facilitated by IDDAS.
The process and outcome of the external the opportunity to provide very satisfactory returns to evaluation of the Board is discussed in greater detail on page 66. shareholders in the years ahead.
OPERATION OF THE BOARD My main responsibility is to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness in everything it does.
During my initial discussions with the Directors it became apparent that the operation and structure of Board and Committee meetings should be reviewed.
With this in mind, I have considered ways in which the Board timetable might operate more effectively 1 3 with my fellow Directors.
As a result, I have proposed a trial period with meetings being longer than previously, allowing deeper focus on strategy while also ensuring sufficient time to 2 conduct all the other Board business required.
The number of formal meetings has been reduced from 10 to six per year with meetings taking place approximately every two months.
Board conference calls are scheduled in the intervening THE BOARD 1.
Anthony Watson, Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 4.
Peter Cole, Chief Investment Officer 5.
Timon Drakesmith, Chief Financial Officer 6.
Jacques Espinasse, Non-Executive Director 60 60 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 CHANGES TO CORPORATE REPORTING both institutional and private shareholders.
The formal programme of events was accompanied by additional The Board continues to keep abreast of changes to company meetings as requested.
This year has seen the culmination of several years of policy development with the finalisation of Institutional shareholders represent the largest group of legislation affecting the structure and contents of the Annual shareholders and much of the activity is focused on this group.
The new Strategic Report on pages 1 to 59 includes, During 2013, over 20 events were either attended or hosted by amongst other matters, the Groups strategy, progress and the Company.
These included investor road shows in the UK, performance for the year.
Disclosures in the Governance Report Europe, America and Asia, four round-table events and six comply with changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code investor conferences.
Visits to Place des Halles in Strasbourg, Code which came into force for the financial year and includes Italie 2 and OParinor in Paris were also arranged for investors expanded disclosures on the work of the Audit Committee and analysts.
Wherever possible the Company is represented on pages 68 to 71.
Changes to remuneration reporting in by the Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and Chief particular are significant and these are fully covered in the Financial Officer host or attend the majority of the events held.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 99.
Key senior executives also participate in meetings and activities with institutional shareholders.
STRUCTURE OF THE GOVERNANCE REPORT During late autumn the Company Secretary held conference In the Governance Report we have provided an overview of calls with a number of investors governance teams to discuss how the Board operated during the year, focusing specifically corporate governance issues generally.
The outcome of those on the Boards activities during 2013.
A separate section of the discussions has provided useful insights which have informed Governance Report on pages 100 to 103 provides a detailed our approach to corporate reporting this year.
description of how the Company has complied with the Principles set out in the Code.
We hope that this new layout Your Board is fully committed to supporting both the will assist readers to navigate this section of the Annual Report principles and application of best practice in corporate with greater ease.
I believe we maintained effective corporate governance procedures during 2013.
These underpin the SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT continued success of the Group.
We actively seek channels through which to engage with investors and during 2013 the Company undertook a wide variety of investor relations activities which were organised for David Tyler Chairman 11 5 6 8 9 10 4 7 www.
