Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 69 Governance Introduction by the Chairman of the Board The following report, and the reports UK Corporate Governance Code of the Audit Committee, Nomination & Compliance Last year, we indicated Review Committee and Remuneration that steps would be taken to address Committee, set out in detail the the additional obligations placed on governance framework and key the Board and Audit Committee under matters addressed by the Board and its the Code relating to the integrity of Committees during the year.
In particular, the Annual Report and Accounts.
I would like to highlight the following key Further toa formal request from the areas of focus during 2013: Board as envisaged by Code provision C. 3.4, the Audit Committee has Board and Committee composition confirmed to the Board that in its opinion, Patrick Burgess John Abel and Rob Rowley stepped down Chairman the Annual Report and Accounts for as Directors during 2013.
Adle Anderson the year ended 31 December 2013, was appointed as a Non-Executive taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Dear Shareholder, Director replacing Rob Rowley as understandable and provides the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and I am pleased to introduce Intus information necessary for shareholders.
Andrew Huntley replaced Rob as Senior Corporate Governance report for 2013.
We also made a Our approach to good governance 2013 was a year of rapid and dynamic number of changes to terms of reference continues to be robust and, we believe, change in the business, with a major for the Committees and changed their highly effective.
Our governance rebranding exercise, three major composition, all of which has served procedures are kept under close scrutiny acquisitions, a new debt funding platform to improve the effectiveness of the by the Board, and we react quickly, where established, transformational strides Committees and the communication appropriate, to introduce changes in best into the digital retailing world including between the Committees and the Board.
I am confident installation of Wi-Fi in our centres and that our attitude and approach to good Risk management As a result of the launch of a transactional website, the governance is embedded throughout rapid changes to the business including formation of a new venture with Europa the business and remains of the highest especially the increased focus on digital to directly employ all facilities staff at standard.
Intu has complied fully with services and the expansion of operations our centres an additional headcount the UK Corporate Governance Code into Spain, the Audit Committee has of approximately 1,300 staff, and throughout all of 2013. overseen an evolution of the Groups World Class Service training across the risk management methodology to entire workforce.
ensure all risks are identified and The Board has sought to provide the prioritised appropriately.
In 2013, the risk right environment to allow the Group management process was stripped back to flourish and pursue its strategic to the basics and a comprehensive formal Patrick Burgess aims, while supporting management appraisal of risk appetite undertaken.
Chairman and maintaining a rigorousgovernance All existing and new risks were analysed, 28 February 2014 framework.
The Non-Executive Directors discussed and reviewed with the Board continue to provide meaningful and and Senior Management.
Each risk was constructive challenge as well as bringing assessed as to potential impact and independent views and experience from probability and categorised accordingly.
their diverse business backgrounds, Further information on the Groups risks while embracing the Intu values and can be found on pages 38 and 39.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, except for those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which arecontained in the Directors report.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
