r eview of operations 01-26 governanCe, FinanCial Governance 27-61 statements anD Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 shareholDer inFormation GOVERNANcE 28 Chairmans Introduction 30 The Board and Executive Committee 32 Report of the Directors 35 Corporate Governance Report 45 Directors Remuneration Report 61 Directors Responsibilities FiNANciAL STATEMENTS 62 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC 63 Consolidated Income Statement 63 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 64 Consolidated Balance Sheet 65 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 66 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 67 Notes to the Financial Statements 91 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Workspace Group PLC Parent Company 92 Parent Company Balance Sheet 93 Notes to the Parent Company Financial Statements 95 Five-Year Performance 95 Key Performance Indicators SHAREHOLDER iNFORMATiON 96 Property Portfolio 99 Investor Information 100 Glossary of Terms Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 governance Good governance, based chairmans introduction on robust practices and processes, is a fundamental part of being a responsible business.
The Board of Workspace is committed to maintaining a high standard of corporate governance in terms of leadership, remuneration matters, accountability, and in our relationship with our shareholders, all as identified by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We believe that good governance, based on robust practices and processes, is a fundamental part of being a responsible business.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS AND SUCCESSION In order to implement our strategy successfully, the Board monitors and reviews succession planning and development requirements for key Executives and senior daniel Kitchen managers across the Company.
ChAIRMAN Consequently, since last years report, we have welcomed two new Non-Executive Directors to our Board.
In February 2013, we announced the appointment of Chris Girling.
Chris was previously Finance Director at Carillion PLC and in recognition of his background and extensive experience it is intended that he will succeed Bernard Cragg as Chairman of the Audit Committee in due course.
In May 2013 we appointed Damon Russell, the Chairman of New Telecom Express Group, an interactive media service provider.
Damon brings over 20 years of experience across the telecommunications, internet, digital and media sectors.
As I explained last year, Bernard Cragg will remain as a Board Director until the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
We have been mindful to ensure that a certain level of continuity is retained given the Board changes last year and of course the experience and skills required in performing the role of Chair of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director.
After nine years on the Board, John Bywater will be retiring at this years Annual General Meeting and we would like to thank him for his valued contribution to the Boards activities over the years and in his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
28 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
