Corporate governance Chairmans overview in any way in corrupt practices.
Any individual Dear Shareholder Introduction from working for us has the power to challenge Conducting business in line with our values or stop any activity that conflicts with our the Chairman isvital to our continued growth and success business ethics, and this commitment is asa premium-listed independent upstream documented in our human resources policies E&P company.
So I acknowledge and and procedures.
We continue to keep our welcome the Boards obligation to ensure anti-corruption policies and practices under wehave the right people, culture and review to ensure they maintain this approach.
structures in place to make the right decisions for our business and for our shareholders.
The Code of Business Conduct defines and Such a culture expresses our principles documents our objectives for: ofrespect, honesty and transparency, and our corporate governance westrive to demonstrate ethical leadership.
our environment, health, safety and As Chairman, my role is to lead the Board social management so it may fulfil its role effectively, under a the role of our employees and their governance structure which is designed to be responsibilities Mr Egbert Imomoh flexible and efficient in creating sustainable our interaction with business Partners and long-term growth in shareholder value.
local governments TheBoard plays an important role in working with management to ensure our business the treatment of Company assets, such as is well governed and financially strong, confidential materials and equity holdings.
thatwe mitigate any risks identified, and that The code highlights the commitment we have wemaintain an appropriate balance between made to acting positively and responsibly promoting long-term growth and achieving towards the people, the physical environments short-term objectives.
The Boards role is to and the host communities our business may provide clear direction for the organisation, affect.
We communicate and monitor our while the managements is to meet the environmental, health, safety and social issues strategic goals of the Company.
through our Environment, Health & Safety We have formalised our focus on high ethical and Social EHSS management system.
standards in our Group Code of Business Similarly, we have a structured approach Conduct, which is in place across the business tothe management of security issues through and sets out clearly our expectations of how a documented security management system.
our employees and those who work on behalf In addition, we ensure we treat all members of Afren should behave.
Through this code, of staff fairly, and we encourage diversity we strive to uphold the standards we have within our team.
We offer our people equal set, and so operate with integrity with all opportunities, training and career progression.
external parties such as governments, business Furthermore, we have provided guidelines partners, shareholders, contractors and local forresponsible hospitality and the importance communities.
The code makes it clear that ofrespecting local laws and customs.
Through weconsider it unacceptable for our companies this policy, we process all payments and and employees to be involved or implicated revenues openly.
We have established an Audit and Risk Committee which reviews such systems and works with external auditors Board structure onour accounts and internal control matters.
Board of Our governance structure every year sets out Directors the roles, accountabilities and expectations The for our Directors, and we review it every year.
Chairman I am delighted to welcome Sheree Bryant to the Board.
Ms Bryant has a strong record of Audit and Remuneration Nomination Executive leading organisations and working alongside Risk Committee Committee Committee Directors government and communities to help implement social change, and of developing, Board composition implementing and coordinating a wide As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has a Board of ten Directors range of innovative corporate responsibility Mr Egbert Imomoh Mr Peter Bingham Mr Patrick Obath initiatives.
Her experience will particularly help Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director in evaluating and enhancing the effectiveness Dr Osman Shahenshah Mr John St. John Ms Sheree Bryant of our own corporate responsibility work.
Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ms Bryant was appointed as Independent Mr Shahid Ullah Mr Ennio Sganzerla Non-Executive Director on 31 October 2013.
Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director She founded Social Policy Group SPG, Mr Darra Comyn Mr Toby Hayward Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director anon-profit organisation which evaluates Afren plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate governance and develops recommendations on key Composition Corporate governance issues in global health and social policy, and continues to serve as a Director.
Prior to SPG, Afren governance structure Ms Bryant worked with the Commonwealth Non-Executive Directors 6 The Board is collectively responsible of Massachusetts and The Department of Executive Directors 3 tothe Companys shareholders for the Government at Harvard University.
Ms Bryant Chairman 1 long-term success of the Group and for was a postgraduate Fellow of both the its overall strategic direction, its values Kings Institute for the Study of Public Policy and its governance.
Itprovides the at Kings College, London and Harvard leadership necessary for the Group to University.
She has a BA from the University meet its business objectives within the of Texas at Austin.
Experience framework of its internal controls, while This years evaluation of the Board, which also discharging the Companys obligations was facilitated externally, confirmed that toits shareholders the Board continues to meet its obligations.
Oil and Gas Industry 6 Following the annual performance evaluation Engineering 6 The Boards principal process, I am pleased to confirm that each of Finance and Accounting 4 responsibilities include: the Directors, particularly the Non-Executive Capital Markets 4 Directors, performance and contribution Approving the Groups business Environmental & Community 2 continues to be objective, timely, thoughtful, strategy and ensuring that an effective challenging and relevant.
In addition, each management team and the necessary Director has demonstrated, and continues financial and human resources are in Tenure of Non-Executive Directors to demonstrate, excellent commitment to place for the Group to meet its objectives the role, ensuring sufficient time is available A greeing the Group budget to prepare for meetings or attend nonscheduled meetings.
Approving the Companys Annual 0-1 years 1 Report and reviewing its periodic 2-3 years 1 At our AGM in June 2013, we adopted new 4-5 years 2 financial reports articles that established the UK Corporate 6-10 years 3 Governance Code recommendation for all Where appropriate, declaring an directors to submit themselves for re-election interim dividend and recommending every year.
a final dividend This section of the Afren Annual Report Agreeing the agenda for the Annual Directors by gender describes how the Company has applied General Meeting the main principles and complied with the Agreeing Board succession plans, and provisions of the Code throughout the year.
evaluating the Boards performance over Male 9 In this report we discuss the key features the preceding year Female 1 of the governance structures, processes Reviewing the Groups risk management and people we have set up to achieve and internal control systems our objectives.
We have also outlined key elements of the activities of the Board and its Agreeing the Groups governance committees during the year.
We continue to structure and approving the Standards embrace the provisions and principles of the of Business Conduct and other Code and the Board will continue to attach Grouppolicies the highest priority to its compliance with the Codes principles.
Our statement below explains how we have applied those principles in 2013 and, where specific provisions may not appear to have been met, provides a detailed explanation.
I am proud of Afrens commitment to doing the right thing for our staff, shareholders and the wider community, and of the efforts our Directors and staff have made during 2013 to adopt the spirit of good corporate governance.
If any shareholder wishes to contact me in relation to any of the content in this section of the Annual Report, please contact me through the Company Secretary at the Companys address.
Egbert Imomoh Chairman Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77
