Dignity plc 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Chairmans introduction to governance Good governance is taken seriously at all levels within the Group and it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead by example and set the tone.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Dear Shareholder, It is the Boards opinion the Group has been fully compliant I am pleased to present the Groups Corporate with the Code throughout the 52 week period ending on Governance Report for 2013 on behalf of our Board.
Our 27 December 2013 and remained fully compliant at the report is intended to provide shareholders with a clear and date the Annual Report for 2013 was published.
comprehensive explanation of what good governance means and more particularly what it means to us as the Board of Directors Report Dignity and by extension how it guides our decision making.
The Directors present their report for Dignity plc for the period ending 27 December 2013.
Good governance is taken seriously at all levels within the Group and it is the responsibility of the Board both to lead Corporate Governance by example and set the tone.
It means ensuring that an The Group is committed to high standards of corporate effective internal framework of systems and controls exists governance, details of which are given in this report and the following other reports from: which includes clearly defined authorities and accountability which promotes success, whilst allowing risks to be The Audit Committee: managed to proper and appropriate levels.
This involves the exercise of judgement which is the responsibility of The Nomination Committee: and the Board who give appropriate consideration to the views The Remuneration Committee.
of shareholders and other stakeholders.
The various sections of this report contain summarised Our Report for 2013 explains Dignitys approach to information from Dignity plcs Articles of Association Corporate Governance with separate reports being included the Articles and the Companies Act 2006 which is the from each of the Board Committees.
We are reporting in applicable English law concerning companies.
The relevant line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be which was published in September 2012 and I am pleased consulted if more detailed information is needed.
to advise that Dignity has complied with all relevant provisions throughout the period ending 27 December 2013.
This is explained in more detail in the following pages.
Lastly, I would like to advise that our first externally facilitated evaluation of the Board was completed in 2013.
The outcome was very good and we received some useful feedback for improvement.
This is discussed in more detail in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on page 46.
Suggestions made by the external facilitator are being implemented to ensure we continue to improve.
