Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Overview Your Board is focused on shaping and preparing the business for the opportunities ahead.
It is my pleasure to give you my own view on how the Board and its committees have served and led the Group in creating sustainable shareholder value.
The Board Over the past few years, the Board has experienced substantial change in both its executive and non-executive directors.
During the last year we saw the resignation of Rita Clifton who had been a valued member of the Board for just over nine years.
In her place as non-executive director we have appointed Andrea Gisle Joosen, who has received a formal induction process as per the Companys policy.
Andrea is an executive with extensive international business and marketing experience with an in-depth knowledge of the Nordic region.
This leaves us with a relatively refreshed board with no director having served longer than four years.
Every member of the Board has been dedicated during this period to the task of running the business for our stakeholders and facing the challenges which arose.
We are now looking forward to a period of stability in order to build on the successes achieved over the past few years.
As a unitary board, the directors acknowledge their collective responsibility for the success of the Company.
The roles are clear with the executive management running the business and the non-executive members providing an appropriate level of scrutiny and challenge.
The Board believes that, in this way, it can work together to challenge and interrogate as well as support each other to ensure effective decision making and implementation, leadership and accountability in all aspects of the business.
In order to encourage an open working relationship, various non-executive director dinners are held throughout the year.
Board effectiveness and skills Each year, the Nominations Committee reviews the blend of skills that are necessary to effectively run the business.
When recruiting new directors an important part of the process is to identify any skill gaps which are then taken into account in the candidate search.
This process was undertaken in the appointment of Andrea Gisle Joosen and the Board is confident that it continues to have the necessary skills and experience to effectively lead the Group and drive shareholder value.
Governance and risk Effective governance is at the core of any well run business and your board takes governance processes very seriously.
We strive to embed good governance in the day to day management of the business believing that governance should not be an overlay of control but should simply be how we do business.
The Group Board is served by three main board committees: Dixons Retail plc Group Board Audit Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee The operations of each of these three committees are outlined in detail in their respective sections later in this report but this is only the tip of our governance structure.
Each of our international and UK & Ireland businesses have their own management board and systems in place to effectively manage the business locally in response to local demands and differences in culture and ways of working.
All of this is overseen by the Group Board which regularly receives updates on the performance of local businesses through specific board reports or more widely in reports from internal audit finance or other departments monitoring Group activity.
This allows our risks to be managed and controlled but it gives the local businesses the flexibility they need in order to effectively react to the local environment.
More information on our control and risk management systems is contained within the Corporate Governance and Audit Committee sections of this Report.
Board support The Board has access to and receives support from the company secretarial team in the performance of its duties.
The agenda for Board meetings is agreed in advance between me and the Company Secretary and General Counsel to ensure optimum information is provided to the Board in a timely manner.
The Company Secretary then ensures that papers submitted to the Board are of a sufficient quality and adhere to agreed guidelines to ensure the provision of accurate, timely and clear information.
I believe that we have a strong Board with sound procedures and look forward to the opportunities that the future will bring.
I look forward to meeting you, along with my fellow directors, at this years AGM.
John Allan Chairman 20 June 2013 Dixons Retail plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
