Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Company information Chairmans letter Dear Shareholder As required by the Corporate Governance Code, we Governance has remained at the top of the external appointed an independent third party to carry out our business agenda over the past year and we have Board evaluation.
The overall conclusion was that the continued to evolve our own arrangements in response.
Board is operating effectively and is closely aligned to the culture of the business.
Further details are described in In my letter last year I outlined our approach to the Corporate Governance report.
governance, which is set out in detail in the corporate governance report which follows this letter.
Put simply, we In accordance with emerging best practice, we have defined and adopted an Investor Relations strategy, which believe that sound governance is an essential requirement for long-term, sustainable growth and we apply includes our Corporate Governance presentation.
Consequently, we have refreshed our investor relations regulatory guidelines in a pragmatic way that adds value to your Board and your Company.
website and included more content, particularly on Corporate Social Responsibility.
We believe our NonOur appointment of Liz Doherty as an additional NonExecutive Directors have more contact with institutional Executive Director in May is part of our succession plan investors than our peers, through attendance at results for the Board.
Liz has broad operational and financial presentations and a selection of the shareholder meetings experience and a strong track record across a number of which follow.
retail and consumer businesses, both here in the UK and abroad.
Her experience of branding, marketing and At our AGM this year we will again be seeking authority to multi-channel will be particularly valuable as the Dunelm buy back shares to satisfy employee share option business continues to grow.
In view of Will Adderleys shareholding of 30.48% we will also need to request a waiver under the In January we held our second Corporate Governance Takeover Code.
We have listened to shareholder concerns presentation, attended by a number of our major about creeping control, and in the Corporate Governance institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
report we have drawn more explicit attention to the We had an open discussion of a number of topics that are safeguards against this, which we hope shareholders will important to our shareholders and ourselves, including consider in a positive light.
Following on from this, we have made some changes to the performance-related Yours sincerely remuneration of our Executive Directors, which Marion Sears, Chair of the Remuneration Committee, explains in her report.
Geoff Cooper Chairman In response to the increasing requirements of regulators and investors for us to focus more on risk, we have 12 September 2013 widened the terms of reference of our Audit Committee, which now becomes the Audit and Risk Committee.
Notwithstanding the formal committee requirements, we see management of risk as a whole Board issue: we have also formally considered our risk appetite in the context of our strategy discussions.
Dunelm Group plcAnnual report and accounts 2013 33
