Governance Chairmans statement on corporate governance Focus on governance Board focus During the year ended 30 September 2013, much of the Boards time was spent reviewing and scrutinising the new eet selection process to ensure it was the right deal for the Company and its shareholders the outcome of which was ultimately approved by shareholders in July 2013.
A substantial amount of time was spent on the eet selection process in scheduled Board meetings and two ad hoc Board meetings were also held in relation to the process.
When I was appointed, I spent time with the eet selection project team to understand the rationale for easyJet placing an aircraft order and the optimal timing of such an order.
I also met with Boeing, Airbus and some of the Companys largest shareholders as part of the process.
I was actively involved in the latter stages of the Boards eet selection process and in ensuring that this was the correct decision for easyJet to recommend to its shareholders.
The Board also constituted a Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee, chaired by Charles Gurassa, specically to oversee the governance John Barton DEAR SHAREHOLDER Non-Executive of the eet selection process.
The Committee Chairman At easyJet, we are committed to met nine times during the year to ensure that the highest standards of governance, control and maintaining high standards of corporate ethical behaviour were being applied during the governance to enhance performance and eet selection process and that these continued for the protection of our shareholders.
As part of the governance The corporate governance report which process, the Committee relied on the input of follows is intended to give shareholders two independent third parties, as well as easyJets an understanding of the Groups corporate Internal Audit function, to review the controls, the governance arrangements and how overall governance and the construction of financial models surrounding the process.
The Committee they operated during the year ended will continue to provide governance oversight on 30 September 2013, including how the the selection of the engine suppliers relating to Group complied with the principles of the order of new generation aircraft.
the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board created a new Safety Committee in I joined easyJet on 1 May 2013, taking over from January 2013 to enhance Board oversight on the Mike Rake as the Companys Non-Executive management of safety and security issues at Chairman.
Following my appointment, my induction easyJet and enable more in-depth reviews of was full, formal, tailored and included meetings with safety-related matters by Board members.
This easyJets key executives and various institutional standing Committee is chaired by Professor Rigas shareholders and high value suppliers.
I have also Doganis, who has a wealth of experience in the taken full advantage of easyJets back to the shop aviation sector.
Keith Hamill also brings his prior oor programme, which has allowed me to spend industry experience to the Committee.
The third time within the operational environment seeing the Committee member is Geoff Want.
Geoff is not a commitment given every day by our pilots, cabin member of the Board, but was appointed on the crew, maintenance, base staff and others to deliver basis of his independent safety knowledge.
He will the easyJet service.
provide Committee members and the Board with expert, objective input on all aspects of safety and security.
Since its constitution, the Committee has easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 58 Governance reviewed a range of safety-related matters.
Some Diversity of these followed requests from the Board to We recognise the importance of diversity in Board undertake detailed reviews of specic operational effectiveness and remain committed to ensuring factors following up the regular safety reports that appointments are ultimately made on merit provided to the Board.
This included a review against the agreed selection criteria.
Further details of the Companys Just Culture.
A Just Culture of our diversity considerations are set out in the is recognised as a key component of a mature Nominations Committee section on page 67. safety management system and is an environment Investor engagement within which individuals feel free to report on We remain committed to sharing our strategic vision safety matters.
and other relevant information with our shareholders: the Company actively solicits feedback from More detail on the operation of the new Fleet Oversight and Governance Committee and the investors and the Board is kept informed of market perceptions and shareholder feedback via formal Safety Committee can be found in the corporate governance report.
monthly Board reports and regular verbal briengs.
As part of the process to approve the order of new During the year, the Board also continued its aircraft in June and July, the Chief Executive and programme of visiting its overseas bases and the Chief Financial officer visited and spoke with meeting local management.
Board members shareholders to ensure that the rationale for the undertook a trip to Charles fide Gaulle Airport, Paris eet order was clearly understood.
which included a tour of the operations to deepen Non-Executive Director shareholdings the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the Last year, the Board agreed to adopt Non-Executive day-to-day functioning of the airline.
These outline an easyJets strategy has continued to be rigorously expectation that Non-Executive Directors hold reviewed and challenged by the Board during the shares in the Company to the value of at least 100% course of the year.
This included a two day session of their annual fees.
This level of shareholding is to in July 2013 devoted to debating and rening be achieved by the later of three years from the the strategy.
The information presented by the adoption of the guidelines or, for Non-Executives management team in July resulted in a high quality, joining after the adoption of the guidelines, within detailed review, a well-focused debate and a clear three years of their joining date.
The target has strategic vision for the Company to take forward.
already been achieved by three quarters of the The process was a good demonstration of how current Non-Executive Directors.
effectively the management team and the Board are functioning together.
Board effectiveness During the year a performance review of the Board, John Barton its key Committees and Directors was undertaken Non-Executive Chairman by Lintstock Limited, an external facilitator.
The process and findings are described on page 65.
Following this review and based on what I have seen in the initial months of my tenure as Chairman, I am satisfied that the Board and its Committees are performing efficiently and that there is the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable the Directors to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
I am also satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at the Board and Committee level with the Company, so as to be able to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
