Our objectives, strategies and business model Our objectives Our strategies Group Group Deliver annual operating plans and year on year sustainable Offer added value, high quality solutions tailored to our customers earnings growth.
Outperform the FTSE 250 Index for total shareholder return over Manage businesses to deliver strong financial performance and cash flow.
each successive annual and 3 year period.
Maintain well invested facilities, operational excellence, strong HSE Maintain a strong balance sheet to provide financial stability and performance and comply with laws and regulations.
Specialty Products Manage key corporate and business risks and maintain high Growth from new products, markets, applications and geographies standards of business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
and complementary bolt on acquisitions.
Specialty Products Offer broad, differentiated and patent protected product portfolio, Grow the Specialty Products business profitably.
innovation and new product development.
Chromium Chromium Manage the Chromium business to deliver stable earnings and cash flow.
Optimise capacity utilisation and operating efficiencies, manage cost base, serve higher margin markets and maintain margin discipline.
Surfactants Transition the Surfactants product portfolio to higher margin Surfactants specialty additives.
Optimise profitability, operating efficiencies and commercial focus.
Our business model Key products Key inputs Specialty Products Clear strategies and business priorities, leadership from the top Rheological modifiers, specialty additives, organoclays, defoamers, and robust governance and risk management frameworks, policies adhesion promoters, waxes and resins, flow and levelling additives, and procedures.
colourants and pigments, dispersing wetting slip and coalescing agents, and lanolin and other natural oil derivatives.
Passionate and committed global workforce and an embedded culture of performance and customer service.
Chromium Chromic acid, chromic oxide, sodium dichromate and chrome Long term customer relationships built on trust, strong focus on sulphate, with customised delivery system.
technical expertise, product innovation and providing a differentiated service to diverse markets.
Surfactants Wide range of surface active ingredients and products used as Excellent commercial, procurement and supply chain teams intermediates in the production of chemical compositions.
supported by strong global infrastructure.
Financial and operating discipline, well maintained facilities and strong functional support teams.
Key sales channels Key markets Specialty Products Major regions supplied Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as North and Latin America, Europe and Asia.
sales to regional and local customers.
Major segments applications Global sales platform, solid infrastructure with cross-selling Specialty Products opportunities.
Industrial and decorative coatings, personal care and oilfield drilling.
Manufacturing facilities, R&D centres and technical service labs Chromium in the Americas, Europe and Asia to support all our key markets.
Metal finishing, super alloys, timber treatment, leather tanning, pigments, ceramics and refractory.
Chromium Sales to the North American market while selectively supplying Surfactants the Latin American, European and Asian markets.
Oilfield production chemicals, construction chemicals, textiles and leather, household, plastics, resins and other niche markets.
Surfactants Long term customer relationships with global MNEs as well as sales to regional and local customers.
06 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Strategic report 02-23 Corporate governance 24-53 Financial statements 54-93 Shareholder information 94-97 Who is Elementis, what does it do Elementis is a global specialty chemicals company.
Its largest and Common to all three businesses are the following: most profitable business, Elementis Specialty Products, is the core Profitable, strong cash generation and high level of return of our growth strategy and has the following key characteristics: on capital.
Operating in diverse and highly segmented markets.
Well invested manufacturing facilities, operational excellence Supplying products that are critical ingredients in its customers and a broad product offering to a wide range of customers formulations and essential to their performance, whilst and markets.
representing a small proportion of the overall cost.
Provision of a differentiated service to customers, offering Having a broad, differentiated and patent protected product tailored solutions and product innovation.
portfolio, coupled with innovation and new product development.
Strong leadership, clear business strategies and high Long term relationships with customers that are based on performance cross functional business teams, underpinned by mutual trust and collaboration, supported by strong technical robust governance and risk management frameworks, as well service and expertise.
as a culture of maintaining high standards of business conduct, High sustainable operating margins and return on ethics and corporate responsibility.
In addition, Elementis is the owner of the only rheology grade hectorite mine in the world, which provides a key raw material and Ultimately, the strategy of the Company is to operate its portfolio of source of competitive advantage.
Elementis Chromium supplies manufacturing assets and exploit its proprietary technologies and chromium chemicals that make its customers products more know how to supply products and services to customers, thereby durable and Elementis Surfactants supplies a wide range of creating value for shareholders.
Key to achieving the above is the surface active ingredients.
allocation and management of human and capital resources, as well as accessing and leveraging the appropriate market channels and supply chains.
All of the above elements are an essential part of the process that forms our overall business activities in terms of the inputs, processes and outputs.
The things that matter most to our ability to be successful The aspects of our business model most important to the Strong financial resources, balance sheet and cash generation.
preservation and creation of value can be summarised as follows: Well invested manufacturing assets that are managed to Clear objectives and business strategies.
Strong leadership, governance and risk management, The passion, attitude, commitment and work ethic of all our supported by Group policies, processes and controls.
Intellectual property, innovation and new product development.
Our global infrastructure and ability to access market channels.
Relationships with customers, suppliers and other Culture of compliance with laws and regulations and stakeholders based on trust and collaboration.
maintaining high standards of business conduct, ethics and corporate responsibility.
How this section links in with other sections of the Annual Report Areas of focus Where you can find the information Development, performance and position Future prospects Strategy, objectives and business model Key performance indicators Principal risks and uncertainties Safety, environmental, employee and other social matters including human rights Gender diversity Governance Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2013 07 Chairmans statement p2 Group Chief Executives overview p4 Our objectives, strategies and business model p6 Our businesses p8 Key performance indicators p15 Risk management report p16 Corporate responsibility report p20 Corporate governance p26 Audit Committee report p29 Nomination Committee report p32 Directors remuneration report p33
