48 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board composition and succession planning GOVERNANCE As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills CHAIRMANS and experience to successfully execute the Companys strategy.
Your Board has devoted significant time to ensuring that we have effective succession and talent development LETTER programmes in place, and ensuring that the leadership teams have the right mix of skills in order to help ensure that the Companys development plans can be successfully executed.
2013 was a year of stability within our Board structure, enabling us to focus our attentions on succession planning along with training and development.
Dear Shareholder Board performance evaluation As the Company continues to grow both operationally and At the beginning of the 2013 financial year, we measured the geographically, your Board recognises the challenge to ensure performance of our Board by an externally facilitated board that we have the right people and processes in place and effectiveness review, conducted by Consilium Board Review.
remains focused on effective risk management in order to The process consisted of a questionnaire, one-to-one create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of all structured interviews with each Director and selected senior stakeholders.
While the Board can and does provide leadership, management, and a full Board discussion of the conclusions the good reputation of the Company depends upon the and recommendations.
The external facilitator also dealt with behaviour of every single employee and contractor, which is the evaluation of the Chairman, including by having a why we seek to maintain an environment where everybody separate discussion with the Senior Independent Director.
feels responsible for the future success of the business.
The outcome was positive, and summarised findings can be found on pages 50 and 51.
Corporate governance Our approach to governance remains unchanged from last In addition to this, at the end of the financial year under year.
It begins with the recognition that it is not a set of rules, review, we conducted an internal board effectiveness review, but the framework supporting the core values which defines including a review of the Chairman, further details of which what is and what is not acceptable.
The Board sets clear are outlined on page 51. expectations for conduct throughout the business, embracing difficult issues and being honest and open in business Strategy dealings.
The governance framework, and perhaps more The Board continued to provide strategic guidance to importantly the corporate culture and human relationships executive management throughout the year, which that underpin all governance frameworks, are operating well, culminated in EnQuests annual Board strategy day in but we are always striving to foster improvements whenever October 2013.
The workshop involved a comprehensive these become apparent.
review of our existing strategy as well as identification of key themes to help us navigate changes in the landscape for our Within our governance framework we have three main Board business.
We are confident that our strategy has positioned committees: Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee: and us well to achieve our long term goals and to maximise Nomination Committee, which assist the Board in fulfilment of shareholder value.
The core functions and activities of each can be found in their respective sections.
In People addition to this, our governance framework also contains Our results are a reflection of the quality of our people several non-Board committees, including an Executive throughout the Group, and on behalf of the Board I would Committee, Operations Committee and the Group Health, like to thank all my EnQuest colleagues for their continued Safety, Environment and Assurance team.
Throughout this hard work, commitment to our values, and successful pursuit period we have given particular attention to the alignment of the Companys development plans.
of our assurance and risk processes and have made positive changes in order to improve their interaction and the flow Dr James Buckee of information.
