56 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Governance: Chairmans introduction Corporate governance involves setting appropriate strategic aims for Experian, providing the leadership and resources to put them into effect, while striking the right balance between risk and long-term value creation for all of our stakeholders.
As we continue to successfully Your Board develops Group strategy, develop our growth strategy with a approves the Group budget and provides view to maintaining the performance ethical leadership and appropriate of recent years, your Board is mindful direction to management, while being of its role and the important role that acutely aware of the need to: corporate governance plays in that Protect the interests of our development.
The ongoing pressures shareholders: in the global economy, among other Protect the sensitive data we hold: factors, have served to heighten Protect the Group against risk: the ongoing commitment of the Board to good governance, and the Protect the reputation of the Group: Boards view remains that the right and Sir John Peace Chairman processes and people are in place at help Protect the communities in which Experian to support that development.
we operate through the corporate These processes and people allow responsibility programme you read for first class governance without about earlier in the annual report.
overly restricting the innovation and The corporate governance report which entrepreneurship of our people that follows will provide more detail, but has served us so well.
I am pleased to mention some areas In reflecting on the role of the Board which demonstrate how we applied in relation to corporate governance, the principles in the UK Corporate it is useful to think about the Heart of Governance Code relating to the role Experian, which we introduced in April and effectiveness of the Board during 2012 and continue to embed throughout the financial year.
The purpose of the Heart of Experian is to help us further identify Board role our collective purpose and a way to The Board, through the Nomination express the ties that bind all of the and Corporate Governance people in the Group, as well as set Committee, receives updates on the goal of becoming one of the best corporate governance developments, places to work.
to assist in ensuring that the Board and its committees can meet best As part of the Heart of Experian, we governance practice.
This year, the introduced three words to articulate Committee received updates on what we stand for in the eyes of the new UK Corporate Governance employees, clients, investors and Code published in September the communities we serve.
In other 2012 and recommendations about words, our core DNA.
Those words implementation of the new code.
The are Connect, Protect and Create and Remuneration Committee received it is Protect which is most relevant in similar updates as they relate to terms of corporate governance.
remuneration corporate governance and, during the year, was briefed on the UK Department of Business Innovation & Skills consultation on revised remuneration reporting regulations.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 57 As well as receiving such updates, the Board evaluation Board with succession planning, in the Board plays a central role in Experians context of the international profile of the The findings of the 2012 Board governance, by the example it sets and Group.
The principles are also designed evaluation in terms of Board the procedures it has put in place.
The to take account of prevailing governance performance were positive, with the delegation of authority from the Board guidelines at any given time.
Board found to be providing the right down to the Groups operating businesses direction for management, while In accordance with the UK Corporate was put in place by the Board and is a key demonstrating ethical leadership and Governance Code, all the directors will feature of Experians governance structure displaying and promoting behaviours stand for election re-election at the 2013 that flows from the list of matters that the consistent with the cultures and AGM.
Each director continues to provide Board has reserved to itself for decision.
The Board the Board with valuable knowledge and The delegation process is well understood is considered to both encourage expertise and to devote sufficient time in the Group and allows decisions to and challenge management, as in support of the Group, and I strongly be taken at the most appropriate place.
circumstances require, with the recommend their election re-election.
The Board maintains oversight of the interests of shareholders always being delegation by reviewing the minutes of Conclusion a top priority.
Risk is always at the meetings of the various principal decisionforefront for your Board, and it considers To successfully develop growth initiatives, making entities around the Group.
the risk management programme of the innovation and entrepreneurship need Group to be increasingly robust.
to be encouraged, and your Board will In terms of risk, the Board continually continue to work to ensure that the right strives to manage risks within our risk The 2013 Board and Board committee corporate governance oversight and appetite.
Over the past year, there evaluation will be facilitated externally, processes are in place to help reduce the has been an increasing emphasis on in line with the recommendations of the associated potential risks, to protect all consumer information across various UK Corporate Governance Code.
legislative and regulatory systems, and the Group continues to actively monitor, Board composition evaluate and plan for changes that may During the year, we completed the affect our operations.
appointments of Brian Cassin as Chief Financial Officer and Deirdre Mahlan Board time and George Rose as non-executive UK Corporate Governance Code The Board met seven times including directors.
Having completed these It is the Boards view that the one ad-hoc meeting during the year appointments, I believe that there is a Company has been compliant with and, as usual, committee meetings the provisions of the UK Corporate good mix of backgrounds, skills and were held at the same time.
You will Governance Code, published by the experience on the Board, although it UK Financial Reporting Council in read later about the areas that the Board was noted in the 2012 Board evaluation 2010, throughout the year ended concentrated on during the year.
that further refinements are always 31 March 2013.
The corporate As Chairman, I work closely with the possible and that there is a need to governance report, together with the Chief Executive Officer and the Company report on directors remuneration, ensure the smooth replacement of Secretary to make sure that the agenda explains how the Company has any experience that is naturally lost at applied the main principles and is focused on the right areas and I believe Board level in the coming years when complied with the provisions of the we strike the right balance.
There is directors terms of office conclude.
The UK Corporate Governance Code regular feedback in the Board evaluation Nomination and Corporate Governance during the year.
Additionally, the process about spending time with the Committee will continue to focus on Company has chosen to comply business, and this year we had a major voluntarily with certain of the changes achieving the right balance for Experian.
to the UK Corporate Governance overseas trip to our regional operational This year, the Board agreed a set of Code announced by the UK Financial headquarters in Costa Mesa, where the Reporting Council in September 2012. operating principles for itself, the Board Board spent a great deal of time meeting The directors report forms part of the committees and the directors.
The aim with senior leaders and other staff to corporate governance report.
of the internal principles is to aid the develop their knowledge of the business.
