E S H e e t t i m m o C t i d u A e e t t i m m o C e v i t Oversee Gr his eblow r ce e oup W tl ing P o dur s Identify and nominate suitable candidates for the Board u c e x E Evaluate skills, knowledge and experience of the Board Monitor risk and internal controls Succession planning of the Board Evaluate financial reports Recommendations on size, structure and composition of Board d r a Corporate Governance Overview The Board continues to seek to adhere to the spirit as well as the letterofthe UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and align its own governance structure accordingly.
This section highlights how the Companys governance seeks to do this.
Fresnillo PLC | 106 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com o B Day-to-day management of risk, strategy and conduct Set remuneration policy Determine remuneration packages Executive management of strategy and finance Implementation of Board disclosures Annual bonus plan e e t t i m Management of the Company businesses Set key performance indicators m o C s n o i t a Control n Monitor the new HSECR system implementation i m o N Risk Review fatalities and monitor responces Governance Verify HSECR activities Performance of management team e e t t i m Company policies and systems m Strategy o C n o i t a r e n u m e R R C Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Board Executive Committee Audit Committee The structure and business of the Board is The Executive Committee is responsible for The Audit Committee is responsible for designed to ensure that the Board focuses its the management of the Companys businesses evaluating the Groups financial reporting and time and energy on strategy, monitoring the including the implementation of decisions making recommendations to the Board in performance of the management team, agreed in principle by the Board and all executive respect of the approval of reports prior to governance, risk and control issues.
Certain management of the operations of the Group release.
It also monitors, on behalf of the Board, aspects of the Boards responsibilities have within the strategy and budget approved by the Groups risk management and internal been delegated to appropriate committees to the Board.
control systems, as well as the activity of the ensure compliance with the UK Companies Act, Honour Commission in overseeing the Groups It has certain powers to approve smaller FCA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Whistleblowing Procedures.
transactions on behalf of the Board.
areas of focus have been risk management, Internal Audit report on their programme and The principal business decisions required of the safety performance and business conduct.
activity at each meeting of the Audit Committee.
Board are set out in the Schedule of Matters It also monitors the role of the external auditor, reserved to the Board.
including any non-audit service that it provides.
A Relationship Agreement determines those Related party transactions are regularly matters which require the approval of the reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Board biographies Pages 109-110 Executive Committee Page 111 The Audit Page 120 biographies Committee Report HSECR Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee The Health, Safety, Environment, Community The Remuneration Committee sets the Groups The Nominations Committee is responsible for Relations Committee evaluates the effectiveness remuneration policy for Executive Committee making recommendations to the Board on the of the Companys policies and systems for members, and determines the remuneration structure, size and composition of the Board identifying and managing HSECR matters packages for senior management.
The and its committees and succession planning withinthe Companys operations.
Remuneration Committee oversees the annual for the Directors and other senior executives.
bonus plan for senior executives including Before making appointments of new Directors, The HSECR Committee reviews reports on all setting Key Performance Indicators.
the Committee is responsible for evaluating the fatal accidents and monitors management balance of skills, knowledge and experience on responses.
The HSECR Committee is currently the Board and identifying and nominating monitoring progress on a project, inconjunction suitable candidates.
with  to attain 100% maturity of the HSECR system by 2016.
The HSECR Committee Page 76 The Remuneration Report Page 132 The Nominations Page 130 Chairmans Report Committee Report | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 107
