Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement Thus we set systems which decide remuneration annually we intend to maintain our against results for the year and broad longer term objectives.
Our Chief Executive and his team receive a good annual previous policies, even though salary and benets, which we x by reference to both these vary quite considerably international and national comparators.
Fixed remuneration forms a higher proportion of the total than in many fromthe line taken by many international companies although this is closer to local otherUK quoted companies.
Members of the Executive Committee can, nevertheless, earn up to a 50% bonus set against three broad criteria.
The first relates to annual production and financial results, and profits excluding the changes in relevant metal prices.
The second criterion concerns successfully nding and proving economically attractive new reserves.
This, we believe, is a good measure of success in creating longer term value.
The third element relates to the individuals contributions to creating outcomes for all the stakeholders in the Company, with special emphasis at this time on health and safety issues.
These may vary to take account of individuals areas of responsibility and with areas calling for special attention from time to time.
Some aspects of these are not capable of statistical target-setting and where outcomes are determined by our Committee against broadly dened objectives.
Lord Cairns In 2013, we reviewed the new Chief Executive Ofcers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee salary, taking account of his performance in post during his first year and increased it by 14%.
We have also considered the Chief Executive Ofcers annual bonus for 2013 and, based on the scoring system that we use, have awarded him a bonus equivalent to two months salary.
Dear Shareholder, Read more: We are confident that this approach is appropriate and Remuneration The UK Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act of 2013 provides our highly regarded team with a good level of Policy prescribes many new obligations with respect to how bothencouragement and incentive to build on the excellent Page 133 executive pay is determined.
We shall of course comply both position the Company has achieved to date.
with these and their spirit.
Inter alia, we continue to show Yours faithfully details of the Chief Executives remuneration as if he was a Board member, which in the reporting period he was not.
Much of the emphasis of the Act concerns the importance Lord Cairns of obtaining shareholder approval for companies policy and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee its implementation.
At our last AGM, over 99% of votes cast whether measured in total or merely from non-connected shareholders signied satisfaction with our stance.
Thus we Read more: intend to maintain our previous policies, even though these Annual Report vary quite considerably from the line taken by many other on Remuneration UK quoted companies.
Page 139 The share prices in companies like Fresnillo plc are in large part determined by changes in precious metal prices over which our executives have no control.
Additionally in line with the wishes of many shareholders, who wish to take any hedging decisions unilaterally, the Company does not undertake significant hedging positions.
This underscores the reason why we do not use share price as a determinant of variable pay nor do we see value for the Company in entering other forms of deferred remuneration arrangements such as long-term incentive share schemes.
Additionally, we believe that the annual objectives that we set have both short-term and long-term impacts which also make separate share-based incentives for the longer term unnecessary.
| 132 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 vwww.
