Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Chairmans Letter of Governance the commitment to our strategy and principles remains rm because we believe in their enduring capacity to create value whatever the circumstances.
Read more: Dear Shareholder, Chairmans In my Chairmans Statement, I have already highlighted that Continuing our theme of looking beyond the cycle, the Statement the past 12 months have presented the Board with some Remuneration Committee has given much thought to our Page 8 new challenges.
The environment in which Fresnillo plc approach to executive remuneration in response to the operates has become a more difficult place for a variety new requirements on reporting.
Our policy has been proven of macro-economic and local reasons.
Nevertheless, the over many years and, as we have shown in our report this commitment to our strategy and principles remains rm year, has the overwhelming support of our independent because we believe in their enduring capacity to create shareholders.
Lord Cairns explains the rationale for our valuewhatever the circumstances.
Remuneration Policy in his introductory letter to the Directors Remuneration Report.
I fully support this policy Last year, I explained how I saw the evolution of the and believe it is the most appropriate way to incentivise the Companys approach to corporate governance during the Executive Committee and senior management to create five years since Fresnillo plc listed on the London Stock and sustain value over the long term.
We have continued to make steady progress over the past 12 months, in line with our long-term perspective.
The Audit Committee has sought to ensure that our financial reporting continues to be based on sound policies In the first half of the year, we fullled our commitment to and judgements.
Their work in evaluating both external and bring the Companys free oat up to 25% via the placing ofthe internal auditors, using external assistance as part of that requisite number of shares with an independent institutional task, has been a useful validation of our approaches in these shareholder.
Having secured our status in the FTSE Index and areas.
The Audit Committee has also overseen the continued in the Premium segment of the Main Market, we continue to development of our risk management and anti-bribery and assess the corporate governance expectations that come corruption programmes.
In addition, they continue to develop with that.
As the London Stock Exchange develops its rules their approach to overseeing the Companys policies and in 2014 for controlled companies such as ours, our current procedures for managing related party transactions which Relationship Agreement and approach to the appointment will, I am sure, provide further reassurance that Fresnillo plcs and re-election of independent Directors may need to be activities are being conducted in the interests of all modied accordingly.
Following the appointment of Octavio Alvdrez as Chief Last year, we reported on the steps taken since our first Executive officer in 2012, the Board has continued to external evaluation of the Fresnillo Board in 2011.
We have support his approach to managing the business and taking continued to monitor progress against the plan then agreed by it forward.
The Executive Committee has been brought the Board and I am pleased that the 2013 evaluation exercise, up to full strength with the appointment of Roberto Daz facilitated by our Company Secretary, concluded that that plan as Chief Operating officer.
The HSECR Committee has been has now been fully and satisfactorily implemented.
We will monitoring the maturity of the Groups health and safety build on that platform in 2014, when we intend to conduct our systems, which continue to improve.
The fatalities in 2013 second externally facilitated Board evaluation exercise.
are evidence of further work to be done, but the trend is improving.
The HSECR Committee has also increased its The Nominations Committee will continue to monitor the focus on community relations in light of the issues that composition of the Board, mindful of the expectations of arose in 2013: while isolated in their occurrence, these shareholders in regard to diversity matters.
The overriding were material in terms of their impact on operations.
consideration will remain that the Board should be Notwithstanding, this should not overshadow the effective comprised of the Directors who individually and together partnerships we have forged across dozens of communities provide the best leadership and oversight to the Company in Mexico and Peru, and the significant economic and social as it faces new challenges and opportunities.
In keeping benets they have delivered to date.
with our long-term perspective, the development of the Board will be evolutionary rather than revolutionary while always seeking to ensure that our governance is appropriate at every stage in the cycle and beyond.
Yours faithfully Mr Alberto Baillres Chairman of the Board | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 105
