CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO GOVERNANCE Conducting our business ethically and safeguarding shareholders investment through high standards of both corporate governance and business performance are fundamental to the GKN Values.
The demonstration of behaviours that uphold our Values by GKNs leaders is of paramount importance and I recognise fully my role in this leadership.
This year we report against a revised version of the UK Effectiveness Corporate Governance Code.
The new Code contains In 2013 we conducted an external Board evaluation, our last supplementary principles and provisions and accordingly externally facilitated evaluation having been undertaken in you will find additional information included throughout the 2010.
The evaluation process involved face to face interviews annual report to support compliance with the Code.
However, with each Director to gather feedback on the areas we believe the underlying cornerstones of good corporate governance to be critical to informing and assisting the Boards at Board level remain unchanged.
More information on the process can be found on pages 66 and 67 of this report.
Leadership The composition of the Board was strengthened at the start of Accountability 2013 with the appointment of Angus Cockburn as non-executive The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the risk Director, whilst towards the end of the year we approved the appetite of the Group and the maintenance of appropriate appointment of Adam Walker to succeed William Seeger risk management systems.
In last years report, I stated that as Group Finance Director on his retirement from the Board.
we had reviewed our risk procedures, which resulted in the Adam joined us as Group Finance Director Designate on enhancement of our risk identification and management 1 January 2014: more information on his appointment programme and the further strengthening of the Groups risk can be found in the Nominations Committee report on assurance processes.
A description of how GKN manages risk pages 70 and 71. and the principal risks which could impact the Group are set out on pages 42 to 51 of the strategic report, and a summary Both new Directors bring world-class business skills and of the internal control and compliance procedures is set out experience to the Board, albeit their appointment does on pages 67 and 68 of this statement.
not enhance the Boards diversity in certain areas.
Whilst it is our stated aim to have an appropriate level of diversity The actions we have taken throughout the year are described at Board level to reflect the diverse nature of the Companys more fully throughout this report.
I am confident that GKN has operations, we remain clear that our responsibility to maintain in place a robust governance framework which will contribute a strong Board takes priority and our overriding obligation to the continuing success of the Group.
in any new appointments must always be to select the best candidate.
MIKE TURNER CBE CHAIRMAN 24 FEBRUARY 2014 62 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
