Overview 02-09 CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION Business review 10-59 TO GOVERNANCE Go Gov five ern rnan anc ce e 60 60- -8 86 6 Financial statements 87-147 Contents Compliance with the Code 64 The Board 64 Board diversity 66 Board activity 66 Board performance and evaluation 67 Investor relations 68 Board committees 68 Internal control 69 Going concern 69 Audit Committee Report 70 Nomination Committee Report 72 Remuneration Report 73 Remuneration Committee Report 73 Other statutory information 83 Directors responsibility statement 86 Dear Shareholders, The Board is committed to I am pleased to present Halmas Corporate Governance report maintaining very high standards on behalf of our Board.
The report deals with how the Board and its committees discharged their governance duties which I hope of corporate governance and provides you with a clear and meaningful explanation of how we apply the principles of good governance enshrined in the UK ensuring values and behaviours Corporate Governance Code the Code.
There have been several reviews and consultations on governance matters in the past year.
are consistent across the Although Halma will report in accordance to the revised September business.
2012 Code in its 2013 14 Annual Report, the Board has considered the revised provisions when preparing this report.
The Board is committed to maintaining very high standards of corporate governance and ensuring values and behaviours are consistent across the business.
We have sought to manage the affairs of the Company not by merely following regimented rules, but by promoting open and transparent discussion, constructive challenge and support in the Board and across the Group.
I continue to be pleased with the progress Halma has made.
We continually seek to ensure best practice is maintained and that governance is integral to our strategy and decision-making I have always maintained that a chairmans role involves ensuring processes for the benefit of our shareholders.
that there is a sufficient cadre of individuals being nurtured throughout the Group to enable effective succession planning.
As I indicated in last years Annual Report, we strengthened and The promotion of several MDs to the Executive Board during my refreshed the composition of our Board with the appointment of tenure, demonstrates the importance the Group places on Daniela Barone Soares in November 2011.
I am now delighted to developing in-house talent.
Reviews of management capabilities welcome Paul Walker as our newest non-executive Director and and potential are performed on a routine basis and I am satisfied Chairman Designate.
He will be appointed Chairman upon my that sufficient resources exist within the Group, and that talent retirement immediately following the Annual General Meeting AGM continues to be developed through programmes such as the Halma on 25 July 2013.
He is a member of the Nomination and Executive Development Programme which itself evolves to meet the Remuneration Committees and he will succeed me as Chairman of changing needs of the Group.
Whenever we identify a need for the Nomination Committee upon my retirement.
Paul was part of improvement to management resources we take action to ensure the original team at The Sage Group plc, a leading worldwide full strength is attained as soon as practicable.
provider of business software which has a global footprint, a devolved management structure and an entrepreneurial culture.
Lastly, I would like to encourage all shareholders to nd the time Paul also has wide-ranging non-executive director experience.
He is to attend our AGM on 25 July 2013.
It is an excellent opportunity a valuable addition to the Board and I am sure will be an excellent to meet the Board, the Executive Board and a selection of the leader and Chairman to our Board and team.
I am proud to have Managing Directors from our operating companies.
served as Chairman over the past ten years and am honoured to have worked with a team of such high calibre.
Geoff Unwin Chairman 13 June 2013 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
