46 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 C HAIRMANS LETTER Board composition and succession planning As Chairman, my role is to manage the Board, ensuring it operates effectively and contains the right balance of skills and experience to successfully execute the Companys strategy.
Your Board has long been aware that the internet is impacting on the recruitment services industry worldwide and as part of the Boards succession plan, the need for greater counsel on matters of information technology and social media was identied.
In June 2013, I had the pleasure of welcoming Torsten Kreindl as a non-executive director to the Board.
I have no doubt that Torstens extensive knowledge and insight into these areas, as well as his international business experience, will assist the Board greatly.
The Board recognises that the impact of technology on recruitment services will continue at pace and is mindful of the need to ensure that it is well equipped to meet this challenge.
Accordingly, the need for greater digital media expertise around the Board table will continue to be a focus for me.
Turning to the leadership teams across the Hays Group which support the Board, we continue to ensure that we have effective succession and talent development programmes in place.
Our approach to gender diversity has to-date been incorporated within our more general approach to equal opportunities.
We have listened to our stakeholders in this regard and this is something that the DEAR SHAREHOLDER Board will be looking at in the year ahead.
I would like to reiterate my personal commitment and that of the Board to the continued maintenance and enhancement of strong People governance across the Group and in ensuring that the framework Our results are a reection of the quality of our people across the in place is meaningful, relevant and focused on our business.
This world from senior management to our recruitment teams.
On behalf is described more fully in the corporate governance statement of the Board, I would like to thank all of my Hays colleagues for their which follows.
continued hard work and commitment to our values, clients and candidates alike.
Corporate governance Despite the challenging economic environment which continues to ALAN THOMSON prevail across the world, Hays has delivered a credible performance Chairman during the financial reporting year.
I believe that our corporate governance framework has underpinned our successful performance 29 August 2013 and is t to support the implementation of our Group strategy, which is described at the start of this Report.
Notwithstanding this, your Board is not complacent about corporate governance at Hays.
We endeavour to ensure that the Groups corporate governance framework evolves in line with the growth of the business, particularly in an international context.
Continuous improvement is part of the way we work at Hays and remaining t for purpose and meeting the business challenges that lie ahead form a large part of the Board and managements focus.
