Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 remuneration rePort REMUNERATION REpORT let ter From tHe cHairman Dear shareholder During the year, we have made steady progress across our remuneration and human resources practices.
our remuneration policy has remained unchanged, other than the forthcoming expiry of our existing incentive plan heralding the development of a new arrangement.
our work developing our human resources has expanded significantly, including the creation of programmes for talent management, employee surveys, career paths and competency frameworks.
this year we designed, developed and consulted on a new incentive arrangement called the executive incentive Plan eiP which will replace the existing bonus and ltiPs for executives.
it was a pleasure to meet many of our significant investors as part of the process.
as i am sure you will appreciate, there is a subtle challenge in finding an arrangement that meets the medium and long-term aspirations of shareholders and management in order to achieve a successful alignment remuneration rePort of interests.
the company chiefly operates in emerging markets, which are in a state of constant 86 letter from the chairman flux, with a very restricted pool of management with the requisite local and global experience.
87 Highlights of 2013 it is important to ensure that management are rewarded for steering the Group through these 87 membership and attendance conditions, whilst encouraging a longer term view.
i believe the eiP, that we are proposing to shareholders, meets that challenge.
the key to the design was to develop performance metrics 88 remuneration and Performance summary that focus on underlying profitability and long-term strategic action, but are measured over 90 Directors remuneration Policy summary aperiod whereby the executive equates what is received to their individual performance.
91 remuneration Policy for executive shareholders will recall that, during 2013, we were one of the first companies to seek Directors separate approval for our remuneration policy and practice.
We have made no changes to our 97 remuneration Policy for non-executive Directors policy other than the adoption of the eiP, which is subject to a separate shareholder approval.
However, this new plan necessitates that we again ask you to approve our policy framework and 98 other remuneration Policy matters ihope that you will be as supportive as you have been previously.
99 terms of appointment and service overall, the committee has been impressed with the exceptional performance of the Group 105 annual report on remuneration during the year and the delivery of strategic targets by the executive team.
the target for profit 111 consideration of other relevant matters before tax was exceeded by over 40%.
112 statement of Policy implementation 2014 the committee was delighted to receive the Building Public trust award for the best remuneration disclosure in the Ftse 250.
We aim to be entirely transparent in our remuneration practices and provide shareholders and stakeholders with the information they need to make informed decisions about our company.
We have, again, sought to develop our disclosure further and hope that you find this useful.
one of the matters on which the committee is most pleased to report is that our executives directly below Board level have built up shareholdings averaging 800% of salary.
We believe that the best alignment on interests is achieved by reciprocal investment of a meaningful level and aredelighted that our executives demonstrate such a clear commitment to the company.
as has been reported elsewhere, during 2014 we will see significant change in our committee memberships.
i am delighted to welcome robert Pickering to the committee, who brings astute commercial awareness and refreshes executive experience.
i also must thank sir David rowe-Ham, who is retiring from the committee and the Board atthe may aGm.
sir David has been a constant source of sound and conscientious advice, bothon remuneration matters and on business matters more generally.
86 corPorate Governance i am grateful for everything that he has given us and wish him the best for the future.
We continue to believe that our remuneration structure is appropriate for Hikma.
We have maintained our policy from last year, setting total remuneration at the median to upper quartile compared to our comparator group with a reliance on the performance parts of the remuneration to deliver this positioning.
in respect of executive remuneration, there have been no departures from normal policy or use of special discretion during the year.
as an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
i have always been available to shareholders to raise matters directly and i remain open to discussion with shareholders should there be any concerns that they wish to raise directly.
as required by the new large and medium-sized companies and Groups accounts and reports amendment regulations 2013, the rest ofthis remuneration report is split into two parts: the Directors remuneration policy sets out the companys proposed policy on Directors remuneration for three years from the 2014 aGm andtwo subsequent financial years and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the policy.
the Directors remuneration policy part is subject to a binding shareholder vote at this years aGm and after that at least every third year.
the annual report on remuneration sets out payments and awards made to the Directors and details the link between company performance and remuneration for the 2013 financial year.
the annual report on remuneration, together with this annual statement, is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the aGm on 15 may 2014.
Michael Ashton, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee HiGHliGHts oF 2013 Developed a new executive incentive Plan and conducted a full Presented to an institutional shareholder services iss seminar on how shareholder consultation Hikma implemented the Bis regulations Fully implemented our policies in respect of minimum shareholdings at Benchmarked executive Director, non-executive and senior management 300% of salary for executive Directors and 200% for other executives compensation Won the Building trust award for best remuneration Disclosure memBersHiP anD attenDance intheFtse 250 the remuneration committee normally consists of four five until the acted as a sounding board for significant projects undertaken 2014 aGm independent non-executive Directors, with an independent bytheHuman resources department non-executive Director holding the chairmanship of the committee.
reviewed executive performance base incentives all members of the committee have held positions at the highest levels in multinational organisations and hence have experienced working life Developed the usage of kPis, the bonus plan and share scheme at all levels.
they have spent a significant proportion of their careers usagefor employees below executive level leading teams and in executive management.
they understand the need reviewed the performance and competitiveness of our to incentivise top management appropriately, whilst ensuring that rewards remunerationadvisers are fair throughout all levels of Hikmas business.
members meeting attendance changed the structure and lay out of the report michael ashton chairman 100% ALLOCATION OF TIME sir David rowe-Ham 100% Breffni Byrne 100% 1.
Setting executive 1 25% remuneration ronald Goode 100% 2.
Remuneration policy 14% robert Pickering n a 5 total meetings 6 3.
Developing practices 18% internal aDvisers external aDvisers 5.
Corporate governance 22% 4 chief executive Pwc 3 vP Human resources company secretary 87
