Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Terminations policy for the Chairman and non-executive Future policy table Chairman and non-executives directors The table below summarises the policy with respect to the remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors.
There are no provisions for the Company to pay compensation No component of remuneration is linked to performance and on early termination.
there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payments.
Appointments to the board - policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors Letters of appointment for the Chairman and nonAny contractual terms will be consistent with those currently executive directors adopted for existing non-executive directors.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible to receive any The letters of appointment set out key duties, including variable pay.
appropriate time commitments, provisions for induction and familiarisation with the businesses and wider senior On appointment, fees for non-executive directors will be management team and require approval for other directorships consistent with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
and potential conflicts of interest.
If necessary, to secure the appointment of a new Chairman There are no provisions for the Company to give notice, but who is not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation the Chairman is required to give three months notice to the and or housing may be provided.
Company and non-executives one month.
Subject to annual election at the Annual General Meeting, the initial period to first Exceptional circumstances renewal is three years.
After six years, renewal is considered The Committee retains the authority to make payments outside on an annual basis.
of those set out elsewhere in this Policy to the extent they are The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the needed in truly exceptional circumstances and were genuinely Annual General Meeting and the Companys registered office.
unforeseen and thus are of an emergency nature.
Any such Details of the dates and unexpired terms are included in the payments will be fully disclosed on a timely basis.
Corporate Governance Report on page 41.
Component Purpose Operation Annual Opportunity Base Fees To attract and retain high-calibre Fees are reviewed annually or less frequently where The Chairmans fee is fixed at 300,000 individuals by offering marketnoted and can be paid in cash and or shares.
225,000 in cash with the balance payable in competitive fees, commensurate IMI shares until 31 December 2015, at which Benchmarked against companies of a similar size and to the time commitment and point it will be subject to review.
At 31 December 2013 base fees for the nonWhen setting fees, factors considered include the level executive directors were 55,000, although this of increase for employees more generally, market data, is subject to review with any change effective business performance, external economic factors, the in 2014. skills required, time requirements and cost.
In respect of the Chairman, IMI also consider the individuals profile and experience.
Additional To reflect the additional time Fees are reviewed annually and can be paid in cash Fee levels in place at 31 December 2013 and Fees required when an individual chairs and or shares.
subject to review in 2014: a committee or is appointed as The Chairman is not eligible to receive additional fees.
Committee chairman: 15,000 senior independent director.
Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner Senior independent director: 5,000 consistent with base fees see above.
Benefits To reimburse reasonable business Reimbursement in cash on production of receipts or Expenses incurred by the Chairman and nonexpenses.
other proof of payment of business expense.
executive directors in undertaking their role are reimbursed as a business expense and are not a personal benefit in kind.
Typically these might include business travel, meals and entertainment.
