GOVERNANCE Chairmans Introduction The strategic transition of the business and delivery in a tough environment have been a key focus this year.
Iain Napier Chairman At a time when breaches of corporate trust and integrity regularly of remuneration table, we now report the value of share plans appear in the headlines and result in all companies facing where the performance period ended within the financial year increased regulation and scrutiny, it is fundamental that the Group rather than those vesting in the financial year.
This change is managed with openness, honesty and transparency.
This can has resulted in some of the historic gures not being directly only be achieved by maintaining high standards of corporate comparable with those reported in previous years.
The Board is ultimately responsible to shareholders This additional reporting also includes the statement made by for all the Groups activities, its strategy and financial performance, the Directors on page 60 that they consider the Annual Report for the ef cient use of the Groups resources and for social, and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and environmental and ethical matters.
With the assistance of the understandable.
The processes which underpin and support Audit Committee the Board, therefore, approves the Groups the Directors con dence in making this statement are long governance framework and reviews its risk management and established and embedded into our business and include the internal control processes.
review of the narrative sections of the Annual Report and We do not see governance as a box-ticking exercise or simply Accounts by our Internal Audit Department who verify its accuracy related to processes and controls but rather as a guide to ensure and consider the tonality and balance of approach.
In line with its we do the right things in the right way.
terms of reference, the Disclosure Committee also reviews the Annual Report and Accounts to ensure it contains all necessary Our governance framework, which includes our Code of Conduct disclosures to fairly present the Companys financial condition together with our values, is key to the way we work both in and results of operations.
Both our internal and external legal respect of our relationships between colleagues and with our advisers support these processes and our external Auditors customers and suppliers.
Our Code of Conduct can be found review the narrative sections of the Annual Report and Accounts within the responsibility standards of behaviour section of our to identify any material inconsistences with the financial website www.
Our Board members also receive drafts of the During the year our governance framework has been enhanced Annual Report and Accounts in suf cient time to facilitate their to take into account the changes introduced by the September review and input.
2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Additional disclosures in respect of how our Audit Committee and the commencement of The Large and Medium-sized addresses the key issues it has considered during the year can Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment be found on pages 51 and 52.
We are one of the first companies required to report under these Regulations.
Ensuring we do the right things in the right way requires the right leadership.
Accordingly our Board is composed of Directors from The strength of our embedded governance framework and our differing international backgrounds combined with a wide range of underlying processes resulted in only minor enhancements to professional and sector speci c experience.
This ensures that we this framework being required: the main change being how we have a truly balanced Board with the right skills and experience to report these activities within the Annual Report and Accounts.
fully contribute to and, where appropriate, effectively challenge The most signi cant reporting changes have been to our decision making.
During the year we appointed Mark Williamson Directors Remuneration Report together with the introduction to the role of Deputy Chairman and welcomed Oliver Tant who of the binding vote on our remuneration policy.
The Regulations was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2013 and succeeded have changed the way in which we are required to report some Robert Dyrbus as Finance Director on 5 November 2013. elements of remuneration.
For example, in the single total gure 42 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS MANAGEMENT AND CORPORATE STRUCTURE Board Chairman and Remuneration Nominations Audit Non-Executive Committee p62 Committee p48 Committee p50 Directors Executive Directors Disclosure Committee Operating Executive Iain Napier Chairman Group functions, markets and factories On 5 November 2013 we announced that Berge Setrakian and We have set out in the following sections, and in the discussion I will retire at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2014 and on effectively managing the risks we face, more details in respect that Susan Murray will retire on 30 September 2014.
Subject to of our governance framework and explain how our sound and his re-election as a Director, Mark Williamson will succeed me effective corporate governance practices support our strategy.
Our strong governance framework will remain integral to our In managing our business risks and operating our internal business model during the 2014 financial year as we continue controls, we have to strike a careful balance to ensure that we to transition the business in line with our sales growth strategy.
appropriately protect our shareholders and other stakeholders Without compromising our risk management and internal whilst providing an environment that fosters employees control environment, we will also continue to focus on our cost entrepreneurial spirit and allows them both to deliver against optimisation programme, which we expect to deliver signi cant our growth strategy and to optimise our total tobacco portfolio savings to support this long-term value creation.
to maximise future growth opportunities to create long-term sustainable value.
Our approach, therefore, needs to enable us to clearly focus on the key risks facing our business and be exible enough to accommodate changes resulting from developments in our strategy and or changes to both the macro-economic and tobacco operating environments.
To be fully effective it must also be practical in all the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Iain Napier The Board has established a number of corporate documents Chairman with which all employees are expected to comply.
These documents fide ne the standards of behaviour we strive to achieve, such standards often being more stringent than local regulations.
The documents cover key issues such as acceptable business practices, ethical and legal compliance matters, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance and occupational health, safety and environmental issues.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 43
