Chairmans overview Dear Shareholder We have a genuine commitment to conducting business responsibly and maintaining Board high standards of corporate governance.
Our governance framework, led by the Board, Pages 61 to 65 supports our culture and values with strong and effective practices which permeate throughout the Group.
We keep the composition, diversity and the size of the Board under regular review to Board Committees ensure that we have the right balance of skills and experience, and that it remains relevant to the business both today and in the future.
Audit Committee Pages 66 to 67 In May and August 2013, we announced the appointments of JillMcDonald and Ian Dyson to the Board.
Jill and Ian joined theAudit and Nomination Committees, with Ian appointed Corporate Responsibility Committee as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Page 68 On 1 January 2014, following the resignation of Tom Singer, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson was Nomination Committee appointed tothe Board as Chief Financial Officer.
Paul joined IHG in August 2004 and has Page 69 held a number of senior positions, most recently as Chief Financial Officer of IHGs Europe Remuneration Committee and Asia, Middle East and Africa regions.
Succession planning is a matter we take very Pages 74 to 97 seriously and this appointment was an excellent demonstration of the strength and depth of our management team and our ability to promote from within.
David Kappler will retire from the Board on 31 May 2014, having served as a Director since June 2004.
He will be stepping down as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from Management Committees 1April 2014 with Ian Dyson replacing him as Audit Committee Chairman.
Following Davids Executive Committee retirement, Dale Morrison will be appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director with Page 65 effect from 31 May 2014.
David has made a significant contribution to IHG over the last 9 years as a Non-Executive Director and we wish him well for the future.
Disclosure Committee Page 65 My objectives for 2014 include enhancing the capabilities and competencies of the Board with an immediate objective to find a Non-Executive Director with consumer facing General Purposes Committee technology experience given the significance of this area in our strategy.
Page 65 We continue to review our governance framework and processes to enhance the way we operate as a Board and deepen our strategic debate.
We introduced a number of improvements to this effect in 2013.
This included improving agenda setting processes, introducing more executive sessions and making more time to consider external perspectives on consumer and technology trends.
The Board performance evaluation conducted in 2013 by an external facilitator will inform further enhancements to our Board processes.
As a dual listed company with a secondary listing on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, we are required to file both an Annual Report in the UK, which complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, and an Annual Report on Form 20-F in the US, which complies with the NYSE rules, US securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
For 2013, to ensure consistency of information provided to both UK and US investors, wehave for the first time produced a combined Annual Report and Annual Report on Form 20-F. As required by the SEC, a statement outlining the differences between the Companys UK corporate governance practices and those followedby US companies may be found on page 175.
Once again, I am pleased to report that, during 2013, we complied fully with all principles and provisions of the Code issued in September 2012, which is available at www.
Patrick Cescau Non-Executive Chairman 17 February 2014 56 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
