OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 77 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DAVID THORPE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMANS SUMMARY STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees annual report on directors remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the revised remuneration regulations and, as such, has been split into two parts: our Policy on Directors Remuneration, which sets out our future remuneration policy pages 78 to 85 : it will be put to a binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM: and our Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how the policy was implemented in 2013 and how it will be applied in 2014 pages 85 to 97 : it will be put to an advisory shareholder resolution.
This was another important year for the Company during which we strengthened the balance sheet by completing the transfer of a significant proportion of our remaining PFI assets to the pension fund and made three acquisitions, including two in the oil and gas sector in the Middle East.
Despite continuing mixed market conditions the business performed strongly, delivering growth by expanding into new markets and through continued investment in the existing business and increasing headline EPS by 5.3 per cent.
Our strategy remains to develop the strength of our three main business streams and grow these businesses where we are able to gain competitive advantage by applying our core skills in adjacent markets and geographies leading to sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Our share price increased during the year by 60.2 per cent on top of 21.2 per cent in the previous year.
This was reflected in our TSR growth of 267.3 per cent over the three-year performance period, placing us well ahead of our comparator group.
The TSR element of the 2011 Performance Share Plan awards will therefore vest in full.
We were again mindful of the continued restraint on pay across the Group, with the result that the salaries of the executive directors were increased by 3 per cent, which was broadly in line with the increase awarded to salaried employees generally.
The performance conditions for Annual Variable Pay have been set such that an on-target performance will result in a payout of 50 per cent of annual salary and, in order to achieve the maximum payout of 100 per cent, normalised EPS will need to achieve a level that is on track to achieve a doubling of normalised EPS over a five-year period from a 2010 base.
We have again set exacting targets for the Performance Share Plan in order to provide a strong incentive to management to deliver sustained EPS growth and linked to the Boards aspiration to double normalised EPS over the five-year period from 2010.
Growth in normalised EPS over the three-year performance period of the 2011 Performance Share Plan awards was 19 per cent which, when adjusted for the PFI transaction mentioned above, increased to 77.5 per cent and will result in a full vesting of the EPS element of those awards.
We will continue to strike an appropriate balance between incentivising the executives, setting stretching targets which support our strategic ambition and our increasing shareholder value whilst not encouraging excessive risk taking.
We believe our Remuneration Policy achieves this aim and trust that you will endorse it with a vote in favour at the AGM, as the directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
David Thorpe Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
