Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Our chairman and effective corporate governance Dear shareholder, The ultimate goal of your board Our board agendais carefully planned to ensure that we focus onthose issues that are key to achieving our goals.
is to collectively and effectively lead AMECs recommended offer for Foster Wheeler is the delivery of long-term, sustainable explained elsewhere in this document.
Maintaining strong corporate reviews the companys strategy each year and this provides governance practices is a core board the context in which corporate transactions such as this one can be assessed and approved.
Each board member responsibility in support of this goal.
brings their own knowledge and experience to the discussion as we challenge, achieve a consensus and ultimately support executive management.
We have a use of the balance sheet, management more generally clearview of what will create long-term value for our andthe approach of the board.
I will continue to prioritise shareholders and remain focused on this in our debates.
these and other similar interactions.
I spoke about our approach to diversity and inclusion We work hard to provide, in this report, the information previously.
We need to recruit from the widest pool of youneed to understand our business model and strategy qualified individuals and we need to value and use the for growth and to assess our performance towards our diversity of thinking that results.
Gender diversity is one goals.
As a result, your board believes this annual report subset of our wider commitment.
We have been reporting and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and on our gender balance since 2008 and included this in our understandable, as we confirm in the directors annual report for the first time this year.
At board level, responsibility statements on page 90.
Iwould also wesupport the objectives of the Davies Report on Women encourage you to use the additional information on our on Boards.
In considering appointments to the board website amec.
com and to attend our annual general wewill evaluate candidates in light of the requirements meeting AGM on 3 April 2014. ofthe particular role having appropriate regard to those As a board we support the UK Corporate Governance Code objectives and to our group-wide commitment to diversityand inclusion.
Code and believe we have complied with the provisions ofthe September 2012 edition throughout the year ended Our ethics committee has an important role to play as 31 December 2013. ourbusiness grows and becomes increasingly global.
Wehave made our mandatory global policies and procedures simpler and clearer, conscious that they will increasingly be read by those for whom English is a second John Connolly language.
They form an important part of our governance Chairman framework, shown in diagrammatic form on page 50.
Theimplementation of both online and face-to-face 13 February 2014 anti-bribery and corruption training has gone well and Printed copies of the Code can be obtained free of charge at training on competition law issues is planned for 2014. www.
com Your board continues to place particular emphasis on monitoring risk and on the structured approach to the management of risk in the company.
Our approach to riskmanagement is shown on page 85 while our key business risks are shown in the relevant section of the In this report business model.
AMEC has an extensive investor relations programme Details on how we have applied the principles of the forexecutive management.
In addition, Tim Faithfull, our Code to our activities can be found in the corporate Senior Independent Director, and I proactively seek to governance statement on pages 50 to 86, including arrange meetings with our major shareholders during the in the remuneration report on pages 60 to 77 year.
In 2013 we had a number of one-on-one meetings and hosted a more informal investor group lunch in Our approach to risk management is shown on London.
At the start of the year questions focused on the page 85.
Key risks are shown in the strategic then-recent management changes: later they became report, within each element of the business model.
more general discussions about the company, its strategy, AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 47
