com Stock code: ITV Chairmans Governance Statement The role of the Board The Boards main role is to work with the executive team, providing support and advice to complement and enhance the work undertaken.
The Board consistently challenges processes, plans and actions and exercises a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual debate.
This serves to promote continuous and sustained improvement across the business.
The Board consisted of a majority of independent Nonexecutive Directors throughout the year.
Further details of our Board composition and appointments are set out in the Governance Report.
In addition to scheduled formal Board and Committee meetings, there are meetings for cross interaction among the members of the Board, Management Board, Senior Independent Director, Non-executive Directors and myself.
The Board believes that These meetings provide a sense of value added from the Corporate Governance is engagement of the Board members in all their interaction with the Company, formal or otherwise.
In 2013, the Board important in ensuring its continued its programme of visiting different areas of the business.
This year the Board members took a trip to effectiveness Stockholm where they met with colleagues to discuss our continuing growth in the Nordic region.
The Company has a policy and programme for induction and continuing Dear Shareholder, professional development for Directors.
On appointment The Board believes that a high standard of corporate each Director takes part in a comprehensive induction governance is a key contributor to the long-term success of programme.
To enhance performance and effectiveness, the the Company.
Board has established a process for the annual development The Board remains committed to ensuring that a of the Board, its committees and individual Directors.
combination of good leadership and the highest standards We remain committed to sharing our business vision with of corporate governance is maintained through a our shareholders by maintaining regular open dialogue combination of a robust internal framework of systems and and effective communication.
We believe that continued controls underpinned by the right values and culture.
This engagement with our shareholders is highly beneficial to framework of policies and processes is regularly reviewed all parties as it helps to build a greater understanding of our against developments in the legislative, regulatory and investors views, opinions and concerns.
The UK Corporate Governance Code This governance report comprises the following sections: As a listed company, ITV is required to report on how it has How the Board works complied with the principles of governance set out in the UK Effectiveness Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Relations with shareholders I am pleased to report that ITV has complied with the Audit Committee Report provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013.
Remuneration Report Archie Norman Chairman 26 February 2014 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 67 Chairmans Governance Statement.
indd 67 28 02 2014 12:25:33 Financials Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview
