24 Governance Letter from the Chairman of the Board Dear Shareholder additional detail on the primary areas of financial I am pleased to present the Groups governance reporting judgement considered in relation to the report for 2013, giving me the opportunity to 2013 financial statements and how they were highlight some significant developments and how addressed.
the principles relating to the role of the Board The Remuneration Committee focused on two have been applied in contributing to challenge, main priorities in 2013.
Firstly, we introduced the debate and effective decision making.
Groups new long-term incentive arrangements, My appointment as Chairman in 2012, after my the Long-Term Plan LTP, which was approved tenure as CEO, followed a consultation with by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
The LTP key shareholders led by our senior independent covers both incentive and retention awards director.
Those shareholders unanimously and provides a framework which we believe supported the decision of the Board, who will continue to support the achievement of the considered the appointment necessary to provide Groups strategic goals.
Secondly, we sought In considering who should succeed continuity at the top level over the period of to address new regulations aimed at improving transition of executive leadership to Bob Keiller the transparency of directors remuneration.
Our me as Chairman, the Nomination as CEO.
Since then, Bob has demonstrated Directors Remuneration Report DRR reflects Committee concluded that Ian excellent leadership as he has developed these new regulations which provide shareholders Marchant was the outstanding the Groups strategy in 2013.
As a result, it is with a greater say in remuneration policy as it appropriate that I now retire from the Board relates to company directors.
The Board is fully candidate.
His appointment is a at the Annual General Meeting AGM in May supportive of these changes in regulation and we natural evolution in the Groups 2014.
In considering who should succeed me as trust that shareholders will welcome the revised stewardship and fully complies with Chairman, the Nomination Committee concluded format.
that Ian Marchant was the outstanding candidate.
the UK Corporate Governance Code There were a number of Board changes Ian has served as a non-executive director since on Chairman appointments.
announced during the second half of the year.
2006, latterly as senior independent director.
In September, Mike Straughen, Group Director His appointment is a natural evolution in the for Wood Group Engineering, advised that he Groups stewardship and fully complies with the intends to retire from the Board during 2014.
UK Corporate Governance Code on Chairman In October, Mark S Dobler, Group Director for appointments.
Wood Group GTS stepped down from the Board and will become CEO of the new joint venture The Board is supported by a number of with Siemens on its formation.
Neil H Smith committees in addition to the Nomination retired from the Board in December.
Neil was a Committee, which bring appropriate insight to non-executive director from 2004 and served on the Boards deliberations and ensure that the the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
long-term interests of the Group are met.
Our His knowledge of the power generation Safety & Assurance Committee was established industry greatly assisted Board discussions on in May 2013 and oversees the management of the strategic development of our gas turbine Safety & Assurance, consistent with its status as activities.
The Committee includes Mike Straughen who has stepped away from his I am confident that the Board retains an Wood Group Engineering role and now oversees appropriate balance of skills, diversity, experience the Groups HSSE activities, and is chaired by and personalities, and that in his role as Thomas M Botts, formerly of Shell, who was Chairman, Ian Marchant will ensure its continued appointed as non-executive director in January effectiveness in the best long-term interests of 2013. the Group.
In 2013, the responsibilities of the Audit Committee expanded to reflect changes in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These included the requirement, as requested by the Board, to advise whether the Companys annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Allister G Langlands, Chairman the Companys performance, business model and 18 February 2014 strategy.
The Committees report also includes John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 25 Typical Board agenda Reports covered at each meeting Safety & Assurance report, CEOs report, operations updates, HR report, reports from Board committees, IT&S report, Financial updates including tax & treasury and investor relations.
The Board also receives a series of management presentations and has the opportunity for site visits through the year.
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Annual agenda items included Acquisitions performance review AGM statement review Annual HR presentation Corporate governance review and regulatory report Annual Safety & Assurance Corporate governance review and Ethics update presentation regulatory report Strategy update Review of half year results and interim Annual Ethics presentation Pre-close trading statement review report IMS & pre-close trading statement review Review of preliminary statement and Review of shareholder feedback and Annual IT&S presentation annual report strategic positioning with advisers Risk review update Review of the effectiveness of risk Strategy update management and internal control systems Additional 2013 business The Board allows for time on other items where necessary.
In 2013, the Board devoted considerable time to discussing the proposed rotating equipment joint venture with Siemens AG, reflecting its strategic importance to the Group.
In addition, the Boards own evaluation process and potential acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Pyeroy and Elkhorn Holdings, were discussed.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
