Strategic Report Corporate Governance Overview details of the matters the Board and its committees considered during the financial year.
However, I would like to draw your Committed to attention to some specic areas.
Board role and effectiveness JRRG JRYHUQDQFH The core purpose of the Board is to create and deliver the long-term success of the Company and long-term returns for 7KH %RDUG LV GHGLFDWHG WR KLJK VWDQGDUGV RI shareholders.
This requires the Board to set the Companys FRUSRUDWH JRYHUQDQFH LQ LWV PDQDJHPHQW RI strategic aims, ensure that the necessary financial and human WKH DDLUV RI WKH URXS DQG LQ LWV DFFRXQWDELOLW resource structures are in place to achieve the Companys objectives, WR VKDUHKROGHUV W LV WKH UHVSRQVLELOLW review management performance in delivering against strategy and RI WKH %RDUG WR GHPRQVWUDWH OHDGHUVKLS set the Companys risk appetite.
The Board ensures that the risk management measures and internal controls which are in place are DQG HHFWLYHQHVV DQG EH DFFRXQWDEOH WR appropriate and effective.
The Board is aware of its obligations to LWV VKDUHKROGHUV DQG RWKHU VWDNHKROGHUV the Companys shareholders and other stakeholders and responds to their needs by transparent reporting and active engagement.
Again, this year we have carried out an in-depth review of the Boards effectiveness and have produced an action plan to ensure constant improvement.
Changes to the Board There have been a number of changes to the Board during the year.
I succeeded Vladimir Kim as Chairman following his decision to step down at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 17 May 2013.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Vladimir for his excellent stewardship of the Company over the last seven years and I am delighted that he has decided to continue his involvement with Kazakhmys as a non-executive Director and Simon Heale, Chairman as executive chairman of Kazakhmys Corporation LLC.
This will ensure the Group continues to benefit from his contributions and I will benefit from his advice as Kazakhmys moves towards the next Dear fellow shareholder, stage in its development.
Furthermore, as I was independent upon I am delighted to present this introduction to the Companys corporate appointment as Chairman, Kazakhmys now complies fully with the governance policies and procedures in my first Annual Report and provisions of the Code.
Accounts since my appointment as Chairman.
I am fully committed Philip Aiken and Daulet Yergozhin stood down from the Board in to strong corporate governance and rmly believe in the benets August and December 2013, respectively, and I would like to thank an effective Board can bring to an organisation.
I believe it is our them for their committed services to the Board.
During the year, governance structures that underpin our ability to deliver our strategy.
Michael Lynch-Bell and Lynda Armstrong joined the Board.
Michael The Board is currently reviewing the Financial Conduct Authoritys brings considerable experience of the financial and global mining and FCA proposals on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Listing energy sectors and Lyndas knowledge of the extractives industry Regime, which include changes to the Listing Rules for premium and, particularly her experience in safety, technical and operational listed companies with a controlling shareholder.
The final rules are areas, will be invaluable in achieving the Groups objectives.
The fresh expected to be implemented in mid-2014 at the earliest and details insights and external perspectives that Michael and Lynda bring are of any changes to Kazakhmys corporate governance will be set out complemented by the Company knowledge and understanding that in next years annual report and accounts.
I am confident that we not only have a Board focused on good governance but we have the In September 2012, the Financial Reporting Council FRC published right Board composition and that the Board works effectively, a revised edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code allowing us to respond to challenges as they arise.
Further details which applies to Kazakhmys for the financial year ended 31 December on the Companys process to identify new members of the Board 2013.
The Board has reviewed the provisions of the Code and can be found on page 75. considered how best it can comply with all of the recommendations to ensure the effective operation of its business.
The Companys Diversity policies on corporate direction and control ensure that the Company The Company takes account of diversity when recruiting, applies all of the principles of good governance contained in the including when considering Board appointments.
However, whilst Code to the organisational structure it has adopted for conducting we see a significant business benefit in having a Board drawn from its business, reviewing its remuneration policy, maintaining its relations a diverse range of backgrounds who bring the required expertise, with its shareholders, and the procedures adhered to in its financial cultural diversity and different perspectives to Board discussions, reporting, internal control and assurance processes.
we do not believe this is achieved through simple quotas, whether The Governance Framework report set out on pages 60 to 75 it be gender or otherwise, and will continue to appoint candidates explains in detail how the Company has applied the principles and based on merit and relevant experience in accordance with the complied with the provisions of the Code and also provides further requirements of the Code.
22 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 60 Governance Framework 67 Board Committees The Board recognises the need to create the conditions that and analysts.
The Board also receives regular reports from the foster talent and encourage all employees to achieve their full career Corporate Communications department on its activities and, potential in the Company.
As part of our overall approach to human in particular, on shareholder sentiment and feedback.
resource management we encourage employee diversity and aim The Board continues to believe that ongoing engagement with to ensure that Kazakhmys future senior leadership team reects shareholders and other stakeholders is vital to ensuring their the demographics of the countries in which we operate and the views and perspectives are fully understood.
This will remain general employee base.
The Board consists of Directors with a wide range of skills As well as the annual general meeting held on 17 May 2013, and business experience drawn from a number of industries, Kazakhmys convened two further General Meetings on 2 August which is critical for bringing both the expertise required, and to 2013 and 7 January 2014 to request shareholder approval of two enable different perspectives to be brought to Board discussions.
important transactions that would assist the Company in its strategy Furthermore, the Board comprises a range of nationalities, which to focus on its core copper business.
At both General Meetings, brings cultural diversity as well as different geographical experiences members of the Board who were present made themselves and viewpoints.
The combination of these factors mean that the available to discuss the proposed transactions with shareholders.
Board benets from a diverse range of competencies, perspectives We received strong shareholder approval in respect of both of and thoughts, which provides a dynamic environment for these transactions and are grateful for your support as we take decision-making.
Internal control and risk management At the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting all The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system Directors who are able to attend will be available, as usual, to of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the meet with shareholders after the meeting to discuss any issues effectiveness of this system.
We have therefore adopted a they may have.
I encourage as many shareholders as possible to risk-based approach in establishing this system.
The Group, in the attend the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2014. course of its business activities, is exposed to strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
Overall management of these Committee framework risks lies with the Board, with the Audit Committee having delegated Kazakhmys has a structured and established corporate governance authority for reviewing the Groups risk management framework.
framework in place which is committed to the Boards aim of More detailed information on the Groups system of internal control achieving long-term and sustainable shareholder value.
As a Board, and risk management can be found in the Governance Framework we believe that for a framework to work well, constant evaluation is report on pages 66 and 67 and the Risk Management Overview required to ensure that the overall aims are stretching but achievable.
The Board has four principal committees to deal with specic aspects of the Groups affairs: the Audit Committee: Group Health, Accountability Safety and Environment Committee: Remuneration Committee: The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, and Nomination Committee.
Detailed information on the roles taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides and responsibilities, and the activities undertaken during the year the necessary information required for shareholders to assess the by each committee are set out in their respective sections as Companys performance, business model and strategy, and that referred to below.
the business continues to operate as a going concern.
I look forward to leading the Board through this period of Shareholder engagement transition and to continue to develop and strengthen our Engaging with shareholders is one of the key aspects of good corporate governance to meet the challenges ahead.
Throughout the year the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and I, supported by the Groups corporate Simon Heale communications team, regularly met with institutional shareholders Chairman Board committees Michael Lynch-Bell Charles Watson Simon Heale Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG Chairman Chairman Chairman Chairman Audit Committee Group Health, Safety and Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Environment Committee See page 68 See page 72 See page 73 See page 76 www.
