GOVERNANCE CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION GOVERNANCE My role is to ensure the Board has the breadth CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION of skills and experience to drive our strategy.
I am pleased to introduce our 2013 governance report in which I will outline my approach to leadership of the Board to ensure it performs effectively and is accountable Sir John Parker Chairman to shareholders.
During the year, the Board discussed a wide range of topics and these are outlined in a new section on page 101.
We welcomed a number of new directors in 2013 and made changes to our committee structure by expanding the membership of the Group Management Committee GMC, disbanding the Executive Committee and introducing the Corporate CorpCo and Operational OpCo Committees, to facilitate more streamlined management of matters IN THIS SECTION delegated to them.
For more information on our committees, please refer to pages 97117.
92 Chairmans introduction 94 Leadership STRATEGY 94 The Board 97 Executive management With the arrival of Mark Cutifani as chief executive in April, 99 The role of the Board came an important change in our approach to management 100 Our governance structure of the Group and a comprehensive review of the Groups 101 Key Board discussions 2013 strategy Driving Value, the aim of which is to spend within 101 Strategy our means and to deliver attractive capital returns.
My role is 102 Board in action to ensure the Board has the breadth of skills and experience to drive this and to encourage open and honest debate and 103 Effectiveness challenge.
I believe that the foundation of good returns 105 Engagement is good governance.
107 Safety and Sustainable As a board we are responsible for promoting the long term Development Committee success of the Company by focusing on returns, improving productivity, exiting non-core assets that cannot deliver 108 Nomination Committee satisfactory returns and ensuring discipline around capital 109 Audit Committee allocation.
Our seven pillars of value: Safety and Health: Environment: Socio-political: People: Production: Cost: and 111 Audit Committee report Financial, will allow the Board to control and measure our 117 Remuneration Committee performance.
To achieve this we must have the right people and processes in place.
For more information on our seven 118 Directors remuneration report pillars please see pages 1415.
144 Directors report Examples of activities reviewed and actions implemented 150 Statement of directors responsibilities by the Board as part of the revised strategy include the ongoing organisational changes, focus on capital returns, 150 Responsibility statement asset reviews leading to identification of opportunities for optimisation and the recent withdrawal from the Pebble project.
For more information on our seven pillars see pages 1415 For more information, visit www.
com  92 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance DIVERSITY GOVERNANCE DEVELOPMENTS Diversity is a core part of Anglo Americans values and During 2013, the government introduced new requirements our business units around the Group regularly share best for companies to produce a strategic report and remove practice in this area.
We have set internal targets to support other less meaningful disclosures.
This allows us to gender diversity and seek to nurture the pipeline of women communicate more concisely to our shareholders.
We believe a more diverse Reporting standards have recently placed emphasis on workforce is beneficial for any business.
human rights and gender representation.
Anglo American was an early adopter of the strategic report style and this In April, at the close of the AGM, 25% of the Board will be years can be found on pages 291. women and we have also enhanced ethnic diversity.
Initiatives relating to other aspects of diversity are frequently We welcome the recently implemented binding vote on introduced.
More information on diversity can be found remuneration and seek to maintain a fair and transparent in the Strategic report on pages 1819 and 29 and in the remuneration policy linked to company performance and S&SD report on our website.
The Directors remuneration report can be found on pages 118143.
There has been much recent interest in improving stewardship of companies by investors BOARD REFRESHMENT and we will embrace the opportunity for better engagement.
During 2013, we continued our process of board For more information on our approach, and our refreshment.
Mark Cutifani replaced Cynthia Carroll as CEO, comprehensive programme of meetings with investors Byron Grote, Mphu Ramatlapeng and Jim Rutherford were throughout the year, including the Annual General Meeting appointed as non-executive directors and Peter Woicke and global road shows, please see the Engagement section retired from the Board.
Judy Dlamini joined the Board on on pages 105106.
Sir CK Chow and David Challen will step down at the close of the AGM.
This means that since UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE becoming chairman in August 2009 there will be, following the AGM, a 100% change in our non-executive directors.
I confirm that during the period, applying the relevant transitional guidance regarding audit tendering, we have The Company will still be able to benefit from David Challens complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
wisdom and experience as he has agreed to act as an Recognising that it would not be practical to expect all advisor to Anglo American for at least a further year.
His companies to adopt immediately the newly introduced remuneration as an advisor will be the same as that for a provisions on audit tendering, the FRC published transitional non-executive director.
His role will be to provide advice to guidance providing for a phased introduction of audit the chairman and the executives on corporate activity and tendering.
In compliance with this guidance, and in light of major structural changes as well as maintaining a watching proposed UK legislation and ongoing discussions at the EU, brief over certain aspects of the Companys SingaporeAnglo American proposes not to tender during the current based trading operation.
Byron Grote will be appointed as audit partners tenure.
More detail on our approach to this chairman of the Audit Committee upon David Challens is set out in the report of the Audit Committee on page 112. retirement as a non-executive director, and his extensive As in previous years, we have provided a checklist on our financial experience, in particular as CFO of BP, will be website detailing how we have complied with the provisions invaluable to the Company.
In addition, Sir Philip Hampton of the Code.
will become the senior independent non-executive director upon David Challens retirement.
Details of site visits and directors training can be found on Sir John Parker pages 102104 in the Board in action and Effectiveness Chairman sections of this report.
BOARD EVALUATION As your chairman I am responsible for the leadership of the Board and for its effectiveness.
We undertake Board evaluations annually, with an external evaluation every three years.
The Board is polled individually and confidentially about issues such as strategy, risk management, board management, agenda topics and project management etc.
The results of this exercise are then translated into an action plan for debate with the Board, and goals are set around those actions.
The results of the achievements against the action plan followed in 2013, are detailed on page 104.
Board evaluations encourage honesty and openness and provide an opportunity for the Company to improve the functioning and effectiveness of the Board by empowering directors to question and comment on the workings of the Group.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 93
