Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 38 This years report key activities Following the positive feedback we received around the level Governance of openness relating to our Board activities and debate last year, this year we are providing: Chairmans overview enhanced integration across the report: greater insight into our Board strategy discussions: further disclosure from our Audit Committee, including detail on our audit tenure discussions: greater depth to our remuneration disclosure and targets: more information and insight from our Nomination Committee including debate around succession and a full response to our diversity policy.
The Board is the As a Board we regularly discuss and review: guardian of the M&S our performance today and our progress towards our goal brand, its reputation to become an international multi-channel retailer and stakeholder our brand and reputation and how we can ensure our relationships.
behaviours and processes protect us for our future Robert Swannell our people, and how we can create a high performing Chairman team, potential for future development and succession along with appropriate motivation and reward our customers, suppliers and local communities ensuring For many decades M&S has based its core values around we treat them all fairly and respectfully Quality, Value, Service, Innovation and Trust.
These values have our shareholders and how we can communicate openly on played a key role in underpinning the integrity of our products, the way we manage and challenge the business brand and way of doing business, giving M&S a real point of Plan A and our plan to become the worlds most difference and special culture.
sustainable major retailer We see these values as key to the way we work with our These all reflect the considerations for directors as referenced customers, our suppliers and our colleagues across the in the Companies Act and which our directors know they are business.
They go to the heart of how we try to behave as an trusted to consider on behalf of all stakeholders.
As a Board these values support and inform the way we review and debate our plans and ensure the right At a time when breaches of corporate trust and integrity are environment for decision-making and challenge in all areas of under the spotlight, resulting in ever greater scrutiny, regulation strategy, performance, responsibility and accountability.
and control, we believe our values could not be more relevant, Our values are recognised across the business.
They are essential and valuable to sustain us for our long-term future.
fundamental to Plan A which celebrated its fifth year this year Commentators recognise when trust and integrity are lost but and which simply could not have taken root in the way it has at often attribute little credit to those who do their best to instil M&S without an existing culture that embraced it.
Plan A is not and uphold high standards.
a disembodied CSR programme: it is a whole company way of We continually try to find an appropriate balance between the doing business.
myriad factors upon which we, as a Board, must focus.
These As a Board how can we use these values to our advantage?
range from our key commercial issues and our long term How can we ensure that we remain trusted and respected not strategy, to our response to enhanced governance processes only for what we do and the integrity of the decisions we make, and reporting.
but how we take those decisions?
Do we as a Board set a clear While the increase in scrutiny is sometimes testing, we example from the top which will reinforce a culture of trust and welcome the opportunity for clear challenge and frank dialogue integrity in line with our values and ensure our future success?
We were pleased that our governance These are questions for many organisations and those in event was so well attended by investors and a wide range of positions of leadership and trust.
shareholder representative bodies, keen to engage with us on Our values were tested in January when elements of our Interim a range of issues relating to our Board process, management Management Statement appear to have been leaked to the of risk, approach to remuneration and our progress to become press.
The implied breach of trust or carelessness was felt the worlds most sustainable major retailer.
This year we have profoundly in the organisation.
We were determined that a also undertaken many more investor events to communicate our thorough, independent investigation was required of the leak and progress on key aspects of our strategy.
We believe that of our process and controls and that we would learn from our greater levels of stewardship and engagement enable better findings.
The level of support for this action across the business understanding about the issues we face and our deliberations highlighted just how strongly the team felt about the relevance of on them, as they relate to our business and people.
trust and integrity, not only for the company and the brand but We welcome calls for greater openness and transparency on also towards our fellow colleagues.
The findings of the Board deliberations, which in turn challenge us to plan our investigation have now been discussed by the Board and agendas to maximise our impact, look at the way we do things appropriate measures implemented.
and reflect on the quality of the decisions we have made.
We These values were also highlighted when the integrity of our have worked hard to build an engaged, trusted team and an product and trust in our supply chain in Food meant that we were environment where we can all be honest and direct about what not impacted by the horsemeat scandal.
We have discussed our we have done well and where we can do better.
processes and controls in this area in our Board and Audit We will not get everything right all of the time, but will learn Committees meetings over the past year and recognise the hard where we make mistakes our annual Board evaluation assists work of our Food team in building strong relationships and us in highlighting areas in which improvements can be made.
In this way we have ensured, so far as Last year we made good progress in achieving our plans, we can, the quality and integrity of our product from farm to fork including hosting our first Board meeting in Turkey.
so that customers can trust us for what we sell.
Our deep-rooted values demonstrated their worth in guiding the principles for how we do business and if we continue to respect these, they should continue to support us for the longer term.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 39 and objectives in shaping the Board for the future in our Board Our Committees and Committee Chairmen Diversity Policy.
We are conscious that, following Kate Bostocks departure and the subsequent appointments of Steve Rowe and Andy Halford, the percentage of women on the Board has fallen to 21% this year, below our target of 30%.
However, this will increase to 23% following Jeremy Darrochs departure from the Board on 19 June 2013.
We remain committed to our target and advocating the role women play at the top of organisations and at M&S in particular.
However, we continue to make appointments based on objective criteria to ensure we appoint the best individuals with diverse experience and background for the role.
In July 2012, we announced that Kate Bostock would be leaving M&S after eight years.
In September, John Dixon was appointed Executive Director, General Merchandise, moving across from his previous role in Food.
Steve Rowe, previously Director of Retail, was appointed to the Board to succeed John as Executive Director, Food.
For more on our Governance framework go to As part of our succession planning, in December we marksandspencer.
com thecompany announced that Jeremy Darroch would be leaving M&S in 2013, after seven years on the Board and as Chairman of our This year, our Action Plan again sets out specific objectives to Audit Committee.
We appointed Andy Halford as non-executive improve our Board performance.
Some of these are now part director in January and he will succeed Jeremy as Chair of the of a longer term journey, but all aim to enable the right Audit Committee in June 2013.
At that time we also announced environment for debate and reflection on the quality of our that Steven Holliday will remain on the Board for a further year, decisions.
These should enhance and underpin trust and stepping down at the 2014 AGM, by which time he will have sustain our values longer term.
served ten years on the Board.
This will allow us to phase the change in Chairman of these two important Committees.
In We do not see governance therefore as simply a box-ticking spite of the proposed length of Steves tenure, the Board is exercise, nor as a generality related to processes or control.
We confident that he will continue to provide strong and see it more about testing whether we do the right things, in the independent oversight to Board debate while continuing to right way, ensuring we have the right safeguards, checks and bring his significant experience, knowledge and leadership to balances in place and that the right considerations underpin the Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee.
More detail every decision we take.
We believe that this practical approach on the Boards debate and assessment of Steves will support our performance for the long-term and protect the independence is outlined on page 44. trust, integrity and value of our business and our brand.
On 21 May, we announced that Steven Sharp, Executive Director Marketing, will be retiring from the business.
He will UK Corporate Governance Code step down from the Board following the AGM and will continue The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code as Creative Director until 28 February 2014.
Patrick Bousquetremained the standard against which we were required to Chavanne will take over responsibility for marketing and will be measure ourselves throughout 2012 13.
We are pleased to put forward for election to the Board as Executive Director, confirm that we complied with all of the provisions set out in Marketing and Business Development at the 2013 AGM.
the Code for the period under review.
We remain committed to the very highest standards of corporate governance and as The Nomination Committee has also reviewed our future talent such have benchmarked ourselves against the UK Corporate pool and longer-term succession potential.
The Committees Governance Code 2012 which we are not formally required to activities are outlined in detail on page 53. report against until 2014.
We already comply with a significant In supporting this debate on talent and future leadership for the number of the additional provisions and expect to be fully business, the Remuneration Committee has continued to compliant by 2013 14. develop and test the setting and disclosure of objectives and To see how we comply with the Code go to the investor section of targets.
These are highlighted in further detail on page 62.
com thecompany with last year, the Committee has also been an active voice in a Those with a QR reader can use the link on the bottom right of this page number of formal consultations and engaged with shareholders The required regulatory and governance assurances are and shareholder representative bodies on the broader UK provided throughout this report.
As in previous years, we have remuneration debate and need for greater transparency.
sought to provide a genuine understanding of how governance Monitoring risk supports and protects the M&S business in a practical way.
In view of our longer term ambitions and the significant business We use the key themes of the Code as the framework for articulating this narrative.
Feedback from shareholders has initiatives currently underway across the business, the Audit encouraged us to keep a similar format to previous years Committee has played a substantial role in ensuring appropriate so our approach to Leadership is outlined on pages 42 governance and challenge around our risk and assurance to 43, Effectiveness on 44, Accountability on 45 to 48, processes.
This is covered in further detail on page 45.
Engagement and relations with shareholders on 49 to 50, Overall, I am pleased with the Boards activity across the Remuneration on 55 to 70 and the Governance of our governance agenda, some of which is highlighted on the Pensions Scheme on 71. following pages.
Further detail is available on our website.
Our Governance Framework is reviewed every year and sets We continue to challenge ourselves and the business and to out the roles, accountabilities and expectations for our reflect and learn from our decisions and debate.
This format has been adopted widely across the business and can be viewed in the Investors section of marksandspencer.
Appointments and succession The Nomination Committee has continued to work on ensuring Robert Swannell appropriate succession and mix amongst both the executive Chairman and non-executive directors.
We have set out our ambitions
