Directors Report continued Energy f Supplier payment policy 2,873,018 kWh of electricity was It is the policy of the Group to agree Auditors consumed in the UK, which converts to appropriate terms and conditions for e Health and safety On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche, 1,235,398 kgCO transactions with suppliers by means 2 It is the policy of the Group to take all the Companys auditors transferred their ranging from standard written terms to 614,896 kWh of gas was consumed in the reasonable and practicable steps to business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited individually negotiated contracts and that UK, which converts to 116,830 kgCO 2 safeguard the health, safety and welfare of its liability partnership incorporated under the payment should be made in accordance with employees, visitors and other persons who Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000. those terms and conditions, provided that Water c Employee involvement select suitable accounting policies and may be affected by its activities.
In order to The Companys consent has been given to the supplier has also complied with them.
In the UK, Michael Page consumed 43,033 then apply them consistently: Communication with employees is effected meet these responsibilities the Group will: treating the appointment of Deloitte & Touche 3 The Company acts as a holding company for m of water.
through the Companys Intranet, information as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP make judgements and estimates that are assess the risks to health and safety: the Group.
Creditor days for the Company bulletins, briefing meetings conducted by under the provisions of Section 26 5 of the Transport reasonable and prudent: were nil 2002: nil as the Company does not senior management and formal and informal implement safe systems at work: Companies Act 1989. undertake any transactions with suppliers.
In total, UK employees travelling to and from state whether applicable accounting discussions.
Interim and Annual Reports are provide information, instruction and The Groups creditor days for the year ended Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue work converts to 373,164 kgCO.
2 standards have been followed: and available to all staff.
Informal communication training: 31 December 2003 were 28 2002: 29 days.
in office and accordingly resolutions to is further facilitated by the Groups divisional b Charitable donations prepare the financial statements on re-appoint them as auditors and authorising organisation structure.
establish and maintain emergency Statement of Directors responsibilities the going concern basis unless it is the Directors to set their remuneration will be The Group made charitable donations of procedures: and inappropriate to presume that the Group d Equal opportunity proposed at the forthcoming Annual General United Kingdom Company law requires the 25,567 during the year 2002: 42,377 will continue in business.
regularly review health and safety policies Meeting.
Directors to prepare financial statements principally to local charities serving the The Group endorses and supports the and procedures.
for each financial period which give a true communities in which the Group operates.
The Directors are responsible for keeping principles of equal employment opportunity.
Annual General Meeting and fair view of the state of affairs of the Subject to certain restrictions, the Group proper accounting records which disclose It is the policy of the Group to provide We are being proactive in our approach to Group and the Company as at the end of The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual matches charitable donations made by with reasonable accuracy at any time the equal employment opportunity to all health and safety by monitoring proposed the financial period and of the profit or loss General Meeting to be held on 27 May 2004, employees.
It is the Groups policy not to financial position of the Group and the qualified individuals which ensures that all changes in legislation and implementing of the Group for that period.
In preparing together with explanatory notes, appear in make political donations either in the UK or Company and to enable them to ensure employment decisions are made, subject to policies accordingly, and as such we comply those financial statements, the Directors are the Notice of Meeting set out on pages 57 overseas.
that the financial statements comply with its legal obligations, on a non-discriminatory with all statutory and regulatory requirements.
required to: to 59. the Companies Act 1985.
Due consideration is given to the responsible for safeguarding the assets of recruitment, promotion, training and By order of the Board the Group and the Company and hence for working environment of all staff including taking reasonable steps for the prevention those with disabilities.
It is the Groups and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
policy to encourage the training and further development of all its employees where this is of benefit to the individual and to the Group.
R A McBride Company Secretary 25 February 2004 16 Michael Page International plc | Annual Report 2003 Annual Report 2003 | Michael Page International plc 17 Corporate Governance The Board of Directors is committed Audit Committee to high standards of corporate The Audit Committee comprises the governance and has applied the Remuneration Committee The main Board comprises the Chairman, independent Non-Executive Directors and All Directors have access to the advice principles of corporate governance who has no executive responsibilities, five is chaired by Stephen Box.
Their relevant The Remuneration Committee comprises and services of the Company Secretary, recommended in Section 1 of the b enforcing a policy concerning the Executive Directors and three independent qualifications and experience are shown in the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired who is responsible for ensuring that Combined Code for the year ended provision of non-audit services by the Non-Executive Directors.
The relatively large their biographies on pages 12 and 13. by Adrian Montague.
It is recognised that Board procedures and applicable rules 31 December 2003. auditor which governs the types of work: number of Executive Directors reflects the the membership of the Committee does not and regulations are observed.
There is an Groups team approach to management.
The Committee met four times this year to This statement also reflects best practice i from which the external auditor is comply with the current recommendations agreed procedure for Directors to obtain The number of independent Non-Executive fulfil its duties and included attendance by governance matters as defined by the recent excluded: of the Higgs review, in as much as the independent professional advice, Directors does not equal that of the the external auditors where required.
Its Higgs review of the role and effectiveness Chairman is a member of the Committee.
if necessary, at the Companys expense.
ii for which the external auditor can be executives as the Board considers that principal tasks are to review the Groups of non-executive directors.
The Board has However, it is the current belief of the Board engaged without referral to the audit the collective know-how and experience internal controls, review the scope of the The Board meets regularly throughout the continued to adopt the comply or explain that the Chairman is best placed to manage committee: of the Non-Executive Directors provides a external audit, consider issues raised by year.
It has a formal schedule of matters approach reinforced by Higgs confirming discussions concerning remuneration iii for which a case-by-case decision balanced mix of skills which is sufficient to the external auditors, and review the halfreserved to it and delegates specific that either the company complies with the and to address any concerns raised by is required, which includes all ensure proper governance of the Group yearly and annual accounts before they are responsibilities to Committees.
During the recommendations or provides an explanation shareholders.
engagements over certain fee limits.
which consists of an organically grown, presented to the Board, focusing in particular meetings, the Board formally considers for non-compliance.
However the formal single business, producing clear, transparent The Committee reviews the Groups policy on accounting policies and compliance, how and to whom matters covered at each c enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases compliance statement made below refers results.
With this high level of visibility there on the Executive Directors and senior and areas of management judgement and meeting should be communicated and where it is proposed that a former to the current Combined Code dated June is considered to be no value in appointing executives remuneration and terms of estimates.
Decision making employee of the external auditors be 1998 applicable to this year end.
additional Non-Executive Directors and employment, makes recommendations upon concerning matters of a more routine nature employed by the Group: and therefore there is currently no intention to this to the Board, and also approves the Objectivity and independence of are dealt with by management below Board Compliance with the Combined d monitoring the external auditors increase the number of independent Nonprovision of policies for the incentivisation external auditors level.
The structure of the Group facilitates Code compliance with applicable UK ethical Executive Directors on the main Board.
of employees including share schemes.
the day to day running of the business and guidance on the rotation of audit The objectivity and independence of the The Committee meets at least twice a year The Directors consider that the Company has enables efficient and effective communication All Directors are subject to retirement by partners.
external auditor is safeguarded by: and is also attended by the Chief Executive complied with the Code provisions set out in of issues to the Board when required.
rotation and re-election by the shareholders except when his own remuneration is Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout a obtaining assurances from the external in accordance with the Articles of Nomination Committee Each of the Committees has formal written under consideration.
The Remuneration the year ended 31 December 2003. auditor that adequate policies and Association, whereby one third of the terms of reference which were reviewed and Report is shown on pages 23 to 29 and The Nomination Committee comprises the procedures exist within its firm to ensure Directors retire by rotation each year.
All amended in 2003 in accordance with the includes information on the Directors service The Board and its operation Non-Executive Directors and is chaired the firm and its staff are independent of Directors are subject to election by the Higgs recommendations.
It is responsible for the Group by reason of family, finance, shareholders at the first Annual General The Board of Michael Page International and manner in which they discharge their making recommendations to the Board employment, investment and business Meeting following their appointment.
All plc is the body responsible for corporate responsibilities are described below.
on new appointments, as well as making relationships other than in the normal Directors are subject to re-election every governance, establishing policies and recommendations as to the composition course of business : three years in accordance with the Higgs objectives, and the management of the of the Board generally and the balance recommendations.
It is the Groups policy between Executive and Non-Executive that the roles of Chairman and Chief Directors appointed to the Board.
18 Michael Page International plc | Annual Report 2003 Annual Report 2003 | Michael Page International plc 19 Corporate Governance continued Transparency of Board appointments Performance evaluation Internal control financial and operational controls.
Controls and procedures are documented Induction and training programme The Board follows formal and transparent In the year under review, evaluation of the The responsibilities of the Directors in respect in policies and procedures manuals.
performance of the Board was undertaken of internal control are defined by the Financial On appointment to the Board, each director Individual operations complete an Following the issue of the Revised Combined in respect of the achievement of financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules which discusses with the Company Secretary the group organisation.
The Board of annual Self-Certification Statement.
Code on Corporate Governance in July targets which directly impacted the level of incorporate a Code of Practice known as extent of training required and a tailored Directors meets at least ten times a year, Each operational manager, in addition to 2003, the nomination committee engages bonus awarded.
Financial and non-financial the Combined Code, which requires that induction programme to cover their individual focusing mainly on strategic issues, the finance function for that operation, external consultants to identify a shortlist goals have been agreed for 2004 as part Directors review the effectiveness of the requirements is then compiled.
Elements of operational and financial performance.
There confirms the adequacy of their systems of suitable candidates for Non-Executive of the budget process and these will be Groups system of internal controls.
This the programme typically consists of meeting is also a defined policy on matters strictly of internal control and their compliance appointments.
All the candidates are evaluated at the end of the year.
requirement stipulates that the review shall senior management, site visits and attending reserved for the Board.
The Managing with Group policies.
The Statement also interviewed by the Chairman and the cover all controls including operational, internal conferences.
In addition, information Director of each operating company is requires the reporting of any significant Chief Executive and evaluations of all compliance and risk management, as well Attendance at meetings is provided on the companys services, group accountable for establishing and monitoring control issues that have emerged so that candidates are discussed with all members as financial.
Internal Control Guidance structure, Board arrangements, financial internal controls within that division: areas of Group concern can be identified The number of meetings of the board and of the nomination committee and the for Directors on the Combined Code information, major competitors and major and experience can be shared: commitees and individual attendance by the recommendation is subsequently made to the Turnbull Report was published in financial reporting.
After an initial induction phase, updates directors are shown below: the Board.
September 1999. comprehensive budgeting system with an risk management.
Identification of major are provided on a periodic basis.
annual budget approved by the Board.
business risks is carried out at Group The Board has assessed existing risk Detailed monthly reports are produced level in conjunction with operational management and internal control processes showing comparisons of results against management and appropriate steps taken Main Board during the year ended 31 December 2003 in budget, forecast and the prior year, with to monitor and mitigate risk: Total meetings 12 accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
The performance monitoring and explanations Meetings attended Board believes it has the procedures in place public interest disclosure policy.
The Executive such that the Group has fully complied for procedure is in place where staff may, in Group reports to shareholders on a halfT W Benson 11 the financial year ended 31 December 2003. confidence, raise concerns about possible S P Burke 11 yearly basis: improprieties relating to financial reporting The Directors are responsible for the C-H Dumon 9 quarterly reforecasting.
The Group or other matters: and S J Ingham 10 Groups system of internal financial and prepares a full year reforecast on a S R Puckett 12 operational controls which are designed to quarterly basis showing, by individual Remuneration Nomination meet the Groups particular needs and aim businesses, the results to date and a Main Board Audit Committee Committee Committee to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper reforecast against budget for the remaining Total meetings 12 4 6 2 accounting records are maintained and that Non-Executive period up to the end of the year: the financial information used within the A A Montague 12 2 6 2 business and for publication is reliable.
There is an established S J Box 12 4 6 2 Audit Committee whose activities are R Lourey appointed 7 October 2003 2 1 1 - Any system of internal control can only previously described: H V Reid appointed 25 February 2003 11 3 3 1 provide reasonable, but not absolute, M Stewart resigned 7 October 2003 5 2 4 1 assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal Resigned as a member of the Audit Committee on 22 May 2003 in line with the recommendation made in the Smith Report Audit Committees Combined Code Guidance.
control are as follows: 20 Michael Page International plc | Annual Report 2003 Annual Report 2003 | Michael Page International plc 21
