Chief Executives Review Our progress this year is a tribute to our dedicated workforce.
IAN R STEWART CHIEF EXECUTIVE Rolls-Royce have demonstrated their confidence in MITIE by awarding us a comprehensive contract across a number of our services.
The goal that I set last year was for 2.
Bundled Services: Many of our major clients MITIE to become the first choice provider such as Dell Computer Corporation and MCI are of Support and Building Services to the approaching us to see if we can provide more owners and occupiers of industrial, than one service.
They have demonstrated their confidence in I believe that we are making good MITIE by awarding us a comprehensive progress towards this.
contract across a number of our services and this is a trend that I see continuing.
Market Opportunities In these cases, MITIE selects the best individual The markets in which we operate continue or team to run the contract.
The customer is to change as our customers seek new methods able to retain an active role in the management of procurement.
As a Group, we will continue of their facility whilst benefiting from a to review our strategy regularly to ensure that combination of specialist operating companies the solutions we offer meet the needs of existing providing a bundled service under a single and potential clients.
We currently see three point of contact.
areas of opportunity which we are ideally 3.
Facilities Management: Many customers want placed to serve: to focus completely on their core activity.
Single Service: Specialist single service this case, MITIE Managed Services can companies have been the basis for MITIEs look after the customers complete property ongoing success.
However, our share of the portfolio from estate management to the total potential market is still below 2% management and provision of a multi-activity leaving considerable opportunity for and services contract.
Our aim is for each of our single service companies to capture 5% of their respective market and where appropriate, to start new companies to help achieve this.
4 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Revenue visibility high capital requirements and extreme ENGINEERING SERVICES vulnerability to changes in market conditions We have continued to see an improvement Through creating a controlled also impacted on performance in this Division.
in the visibility of our future earnings.
This ambient environment we bring We have withdrawn completely from the marine is an encouraging trend and one that I expect buildings to life in a way that market and incorporated the industrial painting to continue.
The percentage of budgeted revenue enables our customers to fulfil capability within our existing Property Services secured for 2004 is 64% at 31 March 2003, their own objectives.
The percentage of our design and installation, budgeted revenue secured for 2005 is 33% at refurbishment and new-build PFI Private Finance Initiative 31 March 2003, compared to 32% last year.
projects range from national We said in our Interim Report that we have companies to individual PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE SECURED decided not to be involved in PFI projects as schools.
MITIE Engineering an equity investor.
Services comprises thirteen 2004 64 36 Any reference, therefore, to PFI projects is purely regional contracting companies as a facility manager or service provider.
at 31 March 2003 Cash The planned reduction in our exposure to 2003 61 39 the capital-intensive parts of our business resulted 2004 32 68 in the receipt of 11.4 million and at the end of at 31 March 2002 this financial year, we had a positive cash balance Secured of 55.0 million.
We expect that we will continue Unsecured to be cash generative.
Margins We recognise that cash ultimately belongs to the Shareholders and that it is my responsibility to It is a tribute to our management that they have ensure that they receive the maximum long term been able to produce consistently high margins in return on our assets.
The appointment of Colin such a competitive environment.
By listening to Hale as Strategic Development Director last year our customers and delivering our services in the was as a result of our stated intention to look at most cost-effective way, we are confident that we small strategic acquisitions that can accelerate our can maintain this trend.
development in some key areas.
The recent During the first half of this year the margin in acquisitions of Trident Safeguards Ltd and Eagle our Support Services Division was affected by Pest Control Services UK Ltd show a strong one-off bid costs relating to our involvement in cultural fit with MITIE and will have an impact two large government PFI contracts, but I am on our long term development.
Trident pleased to report that margins in the second half Safeguards Ltd adds considerably to our Security of the year reflect an improved performance.
discipline in the South East of England.
Eagle Pest Control Services UK Ltd will allow us to self-deliver With greater exposure to economic fluctuations, a service that our customers frequently request.
margins within the Building Services Division have been under pressure.
Our decision to close We will continue to review the efficiency of our the marine portion of MITIE Lindsay Ltd and balance sheet and will manage our assets with the MITIE HydroCat Ltd businesses because of their best interests of our Shareholders in mind.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 5 Chief Executives Review GENERATION Chief Executives Review of Building Property Services exceeded internal targets for Services operations the year and contributed good forward visibility We provide innovative, of earnings with a number of best value and safe and cost-effective This has been an encouraging year for five year partnering initiatives and a significant access equipment and Engineering Services.
There are positive proportion of repeat business including our non-mechanical builders trends in the regional markets and niche sectors contract with Birmingham City Council.
We have plant for hire and sale despite the downturn in activity in the South expanded our capability in the interiors and through a national network East.
We have expanded through the start-ups refurbishment market with the establishment of of branches.
Our systems of MITIE Environmental Ltd, MITIE Technology MITIE Interiors Ltd. Contracts were secured with many of them designed Ltd, MITIE Engineering Projects Ltd and the British Telecom for Scotland, the North East of in-house are designed to acquisition of Scotgate Engineering Services Ltd. England, London and the Home Counties.
ensure increased productivity Public sector opportunities including hospitals, and site safety.
As part of our constant drive to improve margins universities and other education facilities and increase quality, we have recruited a provided various interesting contracts.
We have procurement specialist to focus on the reduction increased the number of longer term framework of our cost base.
Corporate responsibility contracts and we retain a number of notable underpins the discipline and we have committed private sector clients as well as productive serious financial resource towards the training partnerships, such as with Land Securities and development of our people with particular Trillium Ltd. emphasis on Health & Safety.
The progress made by our niche trading The initiative of MITIE Property Services companies in securing sizeable projects for Southern Ltd in teaming up with a school in national retailers such as ASDA, Woolworths, Portsmouth to form the MITIE Construction Skills Boots and Marks & Spencer has been based on Centre has proved so successful that we are gaining a firm understanding of their culture rolling the scheme out in other areas.
Each and objectives and we will continue to apply initiative will create opportunities for children this principle across all of our businesses.
to gain hands-on experience in the various MITIE Scientific Projects Ltd has secured trades associated with our work.
new contracts as well as preferred contractor Following last years restructuring, Access has status and ongoing projects with major achieved an increase in turnover of 40%.
The customers including Johnson & Johnson company has developed some significant and GlaxoSmithKline.
partnerships and continues to bring innovative safety products successfully to market.
Branches which focus on light access equipment continue to show good growth and we will strengthen our position further with the opening of a branch in Northampton in Autumn 2003.
6 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Chief Executives Review of Support following contract wins including The Society of Services operations Motor Manufacturers & Traders in London and the Construction Industry Training Board HQ in Our Support Services Division has had an excellent Norfolk.
An internal operating brand, year.
The companies in the Division are working ingredients, was launched and is being rolled well together and there has been an increase in out throughout our premium catering contracts.
the number of contracts where MITIE companies are providing bundled services a trend which will MITIE Landscape Southern Ltd commenced provide a strong foundation for future growth.
trading in July 2002 and has already secured contracts including Shell International Residential The Cleaning discipline continues to make Estate, MCI and Novartis.
This is our first progress, retaining contracts which were company in grounds maintenance and we re-tendered during the year and winning major intend to develop national coverage with public and private sector contracts.
These include additional start-up companies.
Tesco, Avon & Somerset Constabulary, Worcestershire County Council, Terrys Chocolate Our Security business has continued to grow Factory and BNFL at Sellafield.
It has been successful in a number received a Premises & Facilities Management of joint ventures with MITIE Managed Services Health & Safety Award in partnership with including Clariant UK.
It has also won contracts BNFL Oldbury.
for Coca-Cola Ltd and Maryhill Shopping Centre in Glasgow.
Catering Services had a year of consolidation.
The prospects for the year to come are good Portsmouth School MITIE helped us provide a new focus for generations to come.
PROPERTY SERVICES MITIE delivers a planned and integrated value solution to maintenance, working in partnership with property owners and occupiers.
Core activities include building refurbishment, commercial and industrial painting, interiors, roofing, flooring, fire protection and planned maintenance.
We employ a wide range of qualified and highly skilled tradespeople.
Managed Services has expanded rapidly over Engineering Maintenance has had a very the last year with two major five year contract successful year.
Our national coverage has wins for the Home Office, covering some 540 increased with the establishment of MITIE buildings across the North and South West.
With Engineering Maintenance Caledonia Ltd and complete UK coverage following the start of MITIE Engineering Maintenance North Ltd. MITIE Managed Services South West & Wales We have also merged the two South West Ltd in January 2003, we are in a strong position businesses to reduce overheads and improve to bid for some larger scale national contracts.
Engineering Maintenance has taken Managed Services has secured further facilities the lead role in the Rolls-Royce contract which management contracts as service provider on PFI also includes cleaning, catering, security and schools projects and additional private sector landscaping.
There was a bundled services success clients including IMS Healthcare.
with Dell Computers, a new contract with the Royal Courts of Justice in London, a national Business Services continued its rapid growth contract with HQ Global and extended business and now serves seven of the worlds top 20 law with RAF Waddington and the Foreign firms including Linklaters and Clifford Chance.
New contracts were secured in the banking sector and our work for Barclays Capital, Merrill Lynch The Support Services Division is well placed to and other large financial institutions expanded produce further growth as it benefits from an in scope.
increase in the tendency towards bundled services and the increasingly sophisticated technical and commercial demands of our customers.
ENGINEERING MAINTENANCE A 24 hours a day, 365 days a year operation offering planned and reactive maintenance for mechanical and electrical building services.
All services are delivered by directly employed MITIE staff with an emphasis on pro-active management, engineering excellence, quality and safety.
Chief Executives Review MANAGED SERVICES Our facilities and property infrastructure management service is geared towards enabling finance, property and facility directors to focus on their own core business.
Bespoke service packages are developed for each client by mixing in-house components with our own services to deliver cost certainty, and total flexibility.
MITIE - Management Incentive Through Investment Equity Health, Safety and the Environment Conclusion Individual Managing Directors within the Group MITIE has continued to make progress in a recognise and accept responsibility for Health, challenging year.
This is a tribute to our dedicated Safety and the Environment.
They are supported workforce who are our main asset and the envy by 26 advisors who make up the department of our competition.
I would like to take this from whom the Health, Safety and Environment opportunity of expressing my sincere thanks for Committee is formed.
This committee is chaired their hard work and loyalty.
I look forward to by the Head of Health & Safety who reports another successful year in 2003-2004. directly to me.
I continue to drive improvements Ian R Stewart to the way in which we manage safety and Chief Executive the environment.
CLEANING Quality This MITIE discipline offers a comprehensive range of It is only by remaining 100% committed to integrated support services quality in all its aspects that we will help our including specialist and customers to meet their objectives and build on general cleaning, catering, our own competitiveness.
The Chairmans security, pest control and Quality Award this year is based on financial landscaping.
Customers leadership, the first criteria of the Business range from High Street Excellence Model as promoted by the British banks to schools and Quality Foundation.
Final assessments will be major industrial and made in July 2003 with awards presented to manufacturing plants.
regional winners at the Annual General Meeting in September 2003.
The overall winners will receive a prize of MITIE Group shares.
Next year, we will take customer service and results as our topic, followed in successive years by the remaining three criteria.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 9
