qxd 4 6 03 1:40 pm Page 2 Welcome to this, our second Annual Report for your Company, mmO.
The past year has been a period of significant achievement 2 We have delivered a strong underlying financial and operational for the year ended 31 March 2003.
The charge comprises a 2.30 billion performance, whilst simultaneously managing our impact on society write-down of O UKs assets, principally against the 3G licence: 2 and the environment.
In the year ended 31 March 2003, total revenue a 4.70 billion write-down of all of the goodwill and part of the 3G grew by 14 per cent to 4.87 billion, within which service revenues licence of O Germany: and a 1.30 billion write-down of the goodwill 2 showed an 18 per cent increase to 4.33 billion, and EBITDA almost relating to O Ireland.
The impairment charge and the provision for loss on 2 doubled to 859 million.
Operating loss before exceptional items and disposal have no impact on the cash position of the Group and enable goodwill reduced to 104 million, however an exceptional impairment us to go forward with a balance sheet that reects realistic assumptions charge of 8.30 billion has resulted in the Group recording an operating about the potential of our business to grow and to deliver attractive loss of 8.78 billion.
Through a combination of increased EBITDA, lower returns for shareholders.
capital expenditure and better working capital management, net debt was brought down by 68 million to 549 million.
O Germany became Operational achievements During the year we successfully launched 2 EBITDA positive well ahead of original expectations and margin the O brand across all our businesses, presenting a common face to our 2 improvement accelerated at O UK.
We were pleased that we achieved total brand recognition 2 levels of 80 per cent across the businesses within 12 months a higher Disposal of O Netherlands In April 2003, mmO announced the sale rating than that of our legacy brands, which had been built up over 2 2 of O Netherlands to Greeneld Capital Partners, an independent private many years.
A wide-ranging restructuring programme, which has 2 equity and corporate finance group, for 25 million.
This sale resulted reduced our employee base from 15,100 to 12,800 has helped to in a provision for loss on disposal of approximately 1.36 billion, which improve our operating performance.
In our drive for excellence in has been treated as a non-operating exceptional item in the year ended everything we do, we have built up momentum by offering mobile 31 March 2003.
The decision to dispose of the business followed a customers a strong range of competitive voice and data products and comprehensive review of the highly competitive, five-player Dutch market.
Our customer base has grown by 11 per cent over the year The review highlighted that, whilst O Netherlands had made good to 19.4 million and we achieved strong growth in Average Revenue 2 progress, it lacked the critical mass to t the Groups value creation Per User ARPU across the Group.
We were encouraged by our performance strategy in the longer term.
in the UK market, where we added approximately a million new customers, including over half a million contract customers.
We were also pleased by our ongoing progress in Germany, with customer numbers, We delivered on the commitments made during ARPU and data revenues all ahead of target.
In all our territories our first full year as an independent company.
the O brand continued to gain prole and drive growth.
In Germany 2 we have extended our co-operation with T-Mobile on the roll-out of We achieved strong underlying financial and 3G networks.
operational performance, whilst simultaneously Our performance in the market place and as a business has been managing our impact on the society and the recognised by a series of awards and commendations in the past year.
O our brand was successfully 2 O UK won the Marketing Initiative of the Year at the Utility Week 2 awards for its Arsenal and Big Brother interactive sponsorships.
In launched, helping to grow our customer Ireland, O s mobile ISP portal won the Mobile Internet Technology 2 base by 11 per cent to 19.4 million.
Award at the Golden Spider Awards and Manx Telecom won international recognition for its 3G service.
Exceptional asset impairment charge During the second half of the year, certain events, including the disposal of O Netherlands, indicated Leadership in data services Data as a percentage of service revenues 2 that the Group should perform impairment reviews of its principal mobile across the Group increased to 17.3 per cent from 11.7 per cent, operations.
These reviews resulted in an operating exceptional impairment underpinning our leading position in this expanding market and ahead of charge of 8.30 billion being recognised in the profit and loss account our target of 16 per cent.
Group-wide, more than 8.5 billion SMS messages 2 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp001-005.
qxd 4 6 03 1:40 pm Page 3 were sent, an increase of over 60 per cent on the previous year.
We continue grow the range of MMS-based services available in the UK and globally.
to see significant revenue potential in SMS, including person-to-person, Although person-to-person picture messaging will be a significant premium and wholesale text messaging.
We also made an encouraging start component of this growth, we expect a far broader range of applications to our portfolio of interactive services such as Java games and Multimedia to be adopted in a variety of day-to-day situations, many of critical Messaging Services MMS, for which we have added over 300,000 customers importance.
They would include, for example, remote connection since launch.
Usage is expected to increase throughout 2003 with the to CCTV cameras, transmission of vital patients les by paramedics, introduction of full MMS interconnection between networks and a greater monitoring of asthma sufferers and pictures to illustrate insurance choice of multimedia, colour-screen handsets.
In addition, we successfully claims.
Once more customers have had the experience of using mobile introduced a range of data products across O.
Sales of the xda device from data services, the greater will be the demands on the capacity of our 2 O have continued to show steady growth, with more than 55,000 devices 2G GPRS network and the more customers will want to upgrade to a 2 sold by the end of the year.
Latest market research gures from Context speedier 3G service.
We currently plan to introduce 3G services from late show that mmO has a 36 per cent share of the voice-enabled Personal 2003 in Germany and Ireland and the second half of 2004 in the UK.
2 Digital Assistant PDA market in Western Europe.
In the business market, TM uptake of mmO s corporate e-mail on the move solution BlackBerry 2 We have taken a leading position in mobile data continues with more than 23,000 devices now sold to across the Groups and exceeded our targets.
We also now have General Packet Switched Radio System or 2.5G GPRS roaming agreements in over 25 countries.
messaging services, games, e-mail on the move and mobile Internet access have helped increase Markets We believe in the significant benets that a high-speed 3G network will bring to our customers.
3G will greatly enhance the delivery service revenues from these new mobile data of a wide range of multimedia services, including new services such as applications to 17.3 per cent.
However, we do not see 3G becoming a significant commercial reality until 2004 05.
In the meantime, GPRS will be the main bearer of multimedia services in 2003 and 2004.
In the past 12 months Competitive environment There have been major changes during the past GPRS has come alive.
The ow into the marketplace of colour-screen year in the competitive environment of our European marketplaces as handsets and other media rich products has converged with new the industry began to bring the number of players into line with realistic multimedia interactive applications to exploit the higher speeds that market prospects.
In Germany the closure of Quam and MobilComs GPRS networks allow.
Thanks to advanced data compression technology, 3G operations effectively reduced the number of long-term players the speed of todays GPRS networks is similar to that originally envisaged from six to four.
Our view that the Dutch market could not sustain for 3G.
With the exception of video streaming, there is little that 3G five network operators in the long term lay behind our decision to sell can offer that GPRS does not already do.
In Ireland, an offer to sell four 3G licences attracted 2 commercial reality, the existing GPRS network provides nationwide only three bids, including Hutchison 3G.
The presence of five operators coverage and also offers international roaming.
By contrast, 3G will, in the UK, following the entry of 3, is challenging.
in its early days, be restricted to a few cities.
We now have more than 500,000 active users of GPRS.
Customers are now making use of mobile Regulatory issues Regulation continues to be an important feature of TM e-mail through their BlackBerry devices or the use of a GPRS card in a the commercial environment in which we operate.
The new regulatory laptop and enjoy surng the web while on the move, playing Java games framework that is currently being implemented in the EU is intended to and using MMS.
Most recently we have introduced trials of downloadable respond to increasing competition by moving towards a lighter touch music and videos.
Interconnection deals that we have established with regulatory approach and we are working with the regulators across our other network operators across our territories are expected to fuel the territories to help make this a reality.
growth of MMS picture messaging in 2003.
Our goal is to make MMS as easy to use as text messaging and we will continue to work with industry players such as the Mobile Data Association and the GSM Association to www.
qxd 4 6 03 1:40 pm Page 4 Strategy update Our strategy has focused on three key areas In the community mmO takes its role in the community very seriously.
2 improved operating performance: managing our businesses cohesively Details of our initiatives in this area are set out in the O in Society 2 and leading in mobile data services.
We have made considerable progress section of our website.
In December we launched our community in all these areas but we recognise that our strategy must continue to investment programme Can Do in the Community working with evolve to reect the changing nature of the marketplace.
During the partners to deliver sustainable improvements in the community by using recent period of rapid industry growth there was a single novel product the Companys business resources, particularly its technology.
This year mobile voice and customers were perceived as having similar needs.
the focus for our community involvement will be tackling youth crime.
But now that mobile phone ownership has evolved into a mass market, We have already been involved in several community projects through and there is no longer a single product but a widening range of both the provision of mobile technology and other business resources.
mmO 2 voice and data services, customer needs and the options available aspires to develop a culture of responsibility in everything it does and for satisfying those needs, have become more diverse.
Therefore our in this way create a sustainable business for the future.
We have marketing emphasis must change.
Becoming an integral part of achieved ISO 14001 in recognition of the quality of our environmental our customers lives by knowing what is important to them and helping management standards and ISO 9001:2000 for our Quality Management them to get more out of life, is a primary aim of our strategy going System the first in the industry in Europe to do so.
If we have a clear understanding of their different needs, also been included in both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability we should be able to provide customers with a better overall indices.
Dow Jones commented in a recent report, mmO has an 2 experience of O. excellent overall sustainability performance and is clearly positioned 2 among the best in its industry.
We are also pleased to be in the top To achieve our aim of providing this, we are developing a new quintile of companies within the inaugural Corporate Responsibility Index segmentation framework to ensure that we really do understand the launched by Business in the Community in March 2003. mmO will publish 2 priorities of our customers.
Using this framework we will deliver a range its first full Corporate Responsibility Report covering the year ended of service packages to different types of customer.
At the same time, 31 March 2003, outlining our progress and objectives in this key area.
we are enhancing our IT systems to improve our capability in customer relationship management and to help us transform our retail presence.
Public health and safety Although there is no evidence that radio emissions from mobile phone handsets or radio masts are harmful Such a change of emphasis requires continuous and far-reaching in fact emissions are a small fraction of the safe levels recommended change in the Company.
It is O people who will drive the success by independent international bodies we take seriously health and 2 of these initiatives.
We will continue to build our skills and capabilities safety issues both for those who use our products and for the wider in customer service, marketing, brand building and service packaging.
We actively support the Government research programmes We continuously challenge our people to live our brand values and to into the health implications of mobile technology.
The sector nonetheless keep the customer experience at the centre of our vision.
All of this faces a challenge.
Customers correctly demand good quality, affordable should improve our ability to attract and retain higher value customers, prices and no dropped calls.
The introduction of mobile data places even helping to increase ARPU, reduce churn and improve operational greater demands on network quality.
This means that the industry needs performance.
We are now running our businesses more cohesively, with to invest in network infrastructure, and in more masts in particular.
one O brand providing a common face to our customers, a common In response to public concern O has joined with other network 2 2 portfolio of products and services and a shared network vendor strategy.
operators in the UK to develop and implement the Ten Commitments Data will continue to be a core element in our drive to build a strong to best practice in siting mobile base stations.
With 80 per cent of the brand, based on delivering an excellent end-to-end service experience.
population now owning a mobile phone there is no digital divide We do not necessarily want to be the first to market with each new data access is open to all.
But there is concern that phones have become product but we do want to provide products and services that are targets for criminals.
We have taken a number of initiatives in this area, relevant to our customers lifestyles, easy to use, reliable, good value and for example, publishing a leaet on mobile phone safety in conjunction backed up by excellent customer support.
with the Suzy Lamplugh Trust.
Across the Group, we are implementing equipment identity registers to disable stolen handsets on all networks.
qxd 4 6 03 2:28 pm Page 5 Peter Erskine On the issue of using mobile phones while driving, we have issued a Safe Driving leaet in conjunction with the UK Government and have contributed to the development of legislation.
For the first time the mobile phone industry has multimedia devices that can combine video, voice, sound and text.
We are investing in technology that will classify all internet content and offer the ability to bar handsets from receiving dened information.
This will be available during 2003. mmO was the 2 first mobile phone operator to sign up to the Internet Watch Foundation David Varney and are currently examining issues raised by the use of camera phones either to invade privacy or to transmit inappropriate pictures.
We also continue to roll out our Airwave service across police forces and other public safety organisations in England, Scotland and Wales.
This will be vital in improving the safety of the public and ofcers in major incidents where effective communication can mean the difference between life executive Directors.
David Arculus has joined us as a non-executive and death.
He is currently Chairman of Severn Trent and the Better Regulation Task Force and has spent most of his career in the media Our people We are committed to continuous improvement in the industry including eight years as Group Managing Director of EMAP culture of the Company.
Breathe O, our Company-wide campaign to before taking on the chairmanship of IPC Group Limited.
He brings 2 mobilise O people behind our brand and our strategy, has achieved a to the Board valuable experience as a FTSE director and considerable 2 great deal in energising everyone to improve our customers experience, knowledge of the media sector.
Dave McGlade, CEO of O UK, 2 add value to O and deliver our brand promise.
We have created Rudolf Grger, CEO of O Germany, and Kent Thexton, Chief Data 2 2 The Meeting Place on our internal website to provide everyone and Marketing officer, became executive Directors of the Company.
with the chance to share information and ideas across the Company.
It was confirmed on 1 April 2003 that the Chairmans time commitment Feedback is key to developing further our Can Do company culture would be reduced to an average of between two and three days per week.
and we introduced Reect and Act to ask everyone in the workforce Following these changes, the Board comprises 13 members seven how well we are measuring up to our demanding aspirations.
The results non-executive Directors, five full-time executive Directors and a part-time are providing a catalyst for further change going forward.
Andrew Sukawaty continues as Deputy Chairman and senior independent Director.
Your Board We were pleased to welcome David Chance to the Board during the year.
Previously Deputy Managing Director at BSkyB, he has Looking ahead In the markets in which mmO operates, competition 2 been instrumental in building the multi-channel broadcasting industry to acquire and retain high-value customers is expected to remain robust.
in the UK and is a specialist in subscription-based technology services, In addition, these markets are subject to general economic conditions customer management and content development.
This experience adds and continuing regulatory risk.
The Group believes that its O brand, its 2 considerable value to the business as we move increasingly into the era strong position in mobile data services, and the operational momentum of interactive services.
In April we further strengthened the Board with it has developed since the demerger in November 2001, will enable it the appointment of an additional non-executive Director and three new to deliver sustained progress in all the markets it serves.
Peter Erskine David Varney Chief Executive officer Chairman www.
