03 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Chief Executive Officers statement 2 Our progress looks to continue In the year to 4 January 2004, These improved underlying results The continuing focus of the Group, into 2004 and beyond.
In a turnover decreased to 849.6 million reflect the positive impact that begun in 2003, is on the reduction difficult year for many global 2002: 880.3 million, primarily our restructuring initiatives are of overheads and the turnaround or companies, Morgan has taken as a result of the disposal already having on the performance sale of under performing businesses.
many hard decisions and programme.
In contrast, turnover for of the Group.
We expected no help from our necessary actions this year, continuing operations was steady at markets during 2003 and this remains We also disposed of three significant which we envisage will hold us in 827.3 million.
Operating profit the case for the foreseeable future.
businesses in 2003 and generated good stead in the future.
before goodwill amortisation and However due to our effort 32.8 million cash and we will We are working hard to operating exceptionals this year, we are confident that continue to dispose of businesses turnaround the performance of increased 24.9% to 42.6 million Morgan is better prepared than during 2004 and beyond which do a number of businesses and we 2002: 34.1 million and the before to deal with weak markets not meet our performance criteria.
are committed to the ongoing loss after tax, after exceptional and we continue to work hard to process of disposing non-core charges of 97.4 million and net Our performance over this year ensure that Morgan is a leaner, businesses within the Group.
finance charges of 15.7 million, is an indication that the Group is more efficient organisation.
We continue to look for ways was 75.6 million.
Underlying beginning to show a recovery, In my first year as CEO of Morgan that reduce the cost of earnings per share after although there is still much to be I am pleased with the support shown complexity and overhead costs goodwill amortisation were 6.4p done.
However the outcome has to to me by our investors, our Board, in the remaining businesses and 2002: 1.7p.
Net borrowings at the be measured by shareholder value.
and most importantly, our people.
as a result, we have benefited in year-end were 249.3 million We announced a rights issue in 2003 by a 39% improvement in compared to 251.6 million at the February 2004 to raise approximately Warren Knowlton underlying operating profit end of 2002.
Free cash outflow for 54 million after expenses.
This is to Chief Executive Officer operating profit before goodwill the year was 8.8 million enable Morgan to achieve target cost amortisation and operating 2002: 5.1 million inflow.
savings and profit improvement exceptionals from continuing opportunities of up to 50 million businesses.
These savings are at the top end of our previously announced target range of 35-50 million.
I can assure you that we remain fully committed to increasing value for our shareholders.
Our priorities 1- Simplify our business structure 2- Instil performance based culture across businesses 3- Accelerate and extend restructuring 4- Turnaround under-performing businesses 5- Dispose of operations that fail to meet core criteria 04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc What we do Carbon What we do Markets Contribution to Group turnover Electrical Carbon This element of our business designs, Consumer Products 186.0m manufactures and supplies carbon Transport components and systems for industrial rail and traction applications on a global scale.
In addition, our Auto Consumer business supplies AC DC electric motor commutation components used predominantly in the automotive, powertool and floor care applications.
Engineered Carbon Within this business we provide seal Aerospace 78.4m faces and bearings for a wide range of Defence applications.
We also produce precision high purity speciality graphite products Chemical for use in high temperature and corrosive environments.
Semiconductor Ceramics What we do Markets Contribution to Group turnover Technical Ceramics The division manufactures products Medical 132.5m from a comprehensive range of ceramic, Aerospace glass, precious metal, piezoelectric and dielectric materials for use in a Electronics wide range of end market products such as pacemakers, parking sensors Power Generation and submarine detection devices.
Insulating Ceramics The division produces crucibles, Automotive Transportation 258.3m insulating fire bricks, insulating fibres Metal Processing and furnaces to be used in applications that require heat and energy savings Iron and Steel management.
Utilities Magnetics What we do Markets Contribution to Group turnover The division develops, manufactures Telecoms 172.1m and markets special-purpose magnetic Medical materials and the products derived from them.
Our materials, parts, Automotive components and systems are used in virtually every field of electronics Security and electrical engineering.
05 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Hidden innovation Over the following pages we take a close look at the impact Morgan has on everyday life.
It has to be a close look, because our materials often play an unseen role, hidden away within components of complicated hardware.
Our role may be virtually invisible, but its vital.
