CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT OUR PEOPLE ARE THE DRIVING FORCE BEHIND OUR CONTINUED SUCCESS Phil White Chief Executive As we have become a large player in the UK transport industry and as our presence in North America grows, the people who operate at the customer facing end of our businesses continue to make a huge contribution to the quality of services that we provide.
With the commitment and skills of our people being key to the level of service that we provide as a Group, we have invested in a number of initiatives to ensure that our employees are able to deliver the standards of service that our customers expect.
It is the delivery of this that will underpin the continued success of the Group.
As we have become a large player in the UK transport industry and as our presence in North America grows, the people who operate at the customer facing end of our businesses continue to make a huge contribution to the quality of services that we provide.
As these employees are clearly so critical to the quality of SERVICE QUALITY MONITORING Service remains a key the product that we deliver, we continue to invest in them and factor in the Groups competitive position and we are focusing provide the necessary skills, training and facilities to ensure they on the training, development and skills capability of our are adequately equipped to meet and address the needs of our employees to sharpen their focus so that improved levels of customers in their jobs on a daily basis.
service can be provided to the customer.
We are delighted with the results of the Midland Mainline To ensure we are aware of the requirements of our customers Customer Service Academy which welcomed its first students we undertake regular consultation with key stakeholders in April 2002.
The Academy, based in Derby, has seen all including customers, passengers groups, local and regional Midland Mainline employees undertake training courses since government, transport bodies, employees and suppliers.
As well its inception, with many attending up to three sessions per year.
as meeting the statutory requirements to engage with bodies, Moving forward all franchise bids now include a provision for a we encourage our companies to have regular dialogue and similar dedicated training resource.
We are on schedule to positive relationships with user groups.
open a new facility for Central Trains in Birmingham in the coming months and we are committed to a Customer Service Across the Group, we gather feedback on our service Academy for our Greater Anglia business.
performance and customer satisfaction levels via independent sources and industry group surveys as well as through our own We also recognise that technical training is required for roles audits.
We continue to monitor customer complaint levels on a such as drivers and engineers.
We were pleased to introduce our regular basis with a view to improving our businesses based on first train driving simulator at Central Trains Birmingham New this valuable feedback.
Within Travel West Midlands, customer Street facility.
This facility boasts the latest technology with focus groups are held to discuss services and mystery customer computer-generated graphics combined with recorded video schemes undertaken regularly to monitor service delivery.
footage to allow drivers to experience abnormal and emergency Customer and employee surveys have long formed an integral situations on replicated class 170 Turbostar software.
We believe element of our yellow school bus and public transit businesses this investment will accelerate driver training and improve driver in North America.
Durham School Services undertakes an skill levels.
We plan to install similar tools in selected train annual audit amongst both its school board customers as well operating companies during the next twelve months.
as amongst the parents whose children they carry every day.
This survey is key in highlighting areas of improvement and A new focus on engaging our contracted drivers within the recognition of employees who consistently perform well.
Coach division has led to the set up of a driver development team and the launch of an initiative called DASHBoard Driver During the coming year, we will be improving our focus and Service Hero Board workshops.
Through this initiative we are through the appointment of a new Group Customer Service increasing our direct communication with both our own as well Director who will work closely with our subsidiaries to as third party operator drivers who are frequently the only direct improve performance.
In addition, the management teams in all contact that the customer has with the National Express brand.
our rail franchises will shortly include a new Customer Service Director position.
As a demonstration of our commitment to our people, we have set an objective for all of our UK companies to follow the To further improve stakeholder relationships, in February 2004 lead of our Gatwick Express business which achieved the I appointed Ian Buchan to a new role as Group Development Investors in People IiP standard in February 2003.
The target Director, reporting directly to myself.
Ian, who until recently is for all of our UK businesses to seek and gain IiP status over was Chief Executive of our Trains division, has extensive the next three years.
experience of the transport industry.
In this new role he will have specific responsibility for liaising with key stakeholders to MONITORING EMPLOYEE ATTITUDES We recognise that ensure our future policy and strategic development takes into the benefits of delivering culture change in a number of our account their views.
businesses thereby ensuring that employees understand the behaviour and standards they need to adopt.
In order to LEADERSHIP FOR THE FUTURE We believe that establish a foundation from which we can build in the future, we leadership is key to the continued improvement of the Groups launched our first UK-wide employee survey to complement performance.
Over the last two years, we have reviewed our the existing employee survey that is undertaken annually within management strength and invested in a set of integrated our North American businesses.
Following a series of employee development plans to enhance our leadership potential across focus groups, we undertook the main survey in the Autumn.
The aim is to identify, develop and retain the future expected, the findings have highlighted a number of areas where leaders of the Group, to raise and sustain the benchmark of we can perform better.
We will be seeking to improve our current leadership performance and to build overall Group communications, particularly two-way communications with performance and customer satisfaction.
employees, and to enhance opportunities for training and development.
On the back of the survey, each individual We have developed a Groupwide leadership programme that operating company is developing action plans to communicate complements our existing graduate training scheme which their own individual operating company results.
In the future we continues to go from strength to strength.
We are now in the intend to carry out the survey regularly.
Further details of the fourth year of this scheme and to date all 18 of our graduates survey can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report have remained within the Group.
Succession planning and leadership development programmes We believe that our focus on recruiting, rewarding and are also well-established in our overseas operations.
retaining our people and an ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders will position the Group well for the future.
This INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE At the end of 2003 we approach will ensure that we have high quality employees who employed 43,000 employees across the Group.
Over 90% of have the skills and the personal qualities to deliver the standard our employees work at the frontline of our businesses, as bus of service that we expect and which our customers deserve.
drivers, on-board trains or in other front line customer facing 17
