CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW NEW LOOK IS STRATEGICALLY POSITIONED IN THE FAST-GROWING FASHION VALUE SECTOR.
WE HAVE A STRONG BRAND WITH BROAD APPEAL, AND BOTH THE CAPACITY AND THE OPPORTUNITIES TO DELIVER FURTHER GROWTH.
Project Heartland is a more strategically significant undertaking.
It involves Two major trends now dominate the British clothing market fashion and relocating to larger stores in key cities and major towns where our value.
Celebrities outfits and catwalk looks, reflected in the media, set potential for sales and profit growth has been constrained by the size of the pace for all clothing retailers, who must satisfy customers demands our stores.
By the year end, we had completed a total of 62 of an initial for fashionable product as quickly as possible.
Customers, whatever their target of 160 of these relocations.
Our new stores typically have between income, now expect fashion and value, not one at the expense of the other.
4,000 and 10,000 square feet of trading space, allowing us to display our Through consistent delivery of the latest fashions at the most affordable full product range in a dynamic and attractive environment.
In these larger prices, New Look aims to satisfy these expectations.
We are focused on stores, profit growth is exceeding our expectations.
In the first twelve months expanding the business by replicating our successful strategies for the following relocation, the profit contribution from relocated stores rose by continuing development of great product, attractive stores and the 117%, comfortably ahead of the 70% uplift we had originally predicted.
We have seen no evidence to date of any adverse impact on smaller New Look stores located relatively near to the new, larger ones.
Finding suitable Our strategy sites for new stores has also become easier as awareness of New Looks Our strategy is to drive sustainable earnings growth through: brand has grown.
Developers of retail property now look to us as attractive the continuing expansion of our trading space, and especially the potential tenants, capable of creating exciting destination stores in new development of larger stores in key markets: developments across the UK.
the ongoing development of comprehensive product ranges with broad customer appeal and good potential to increase market share: We are currently exploring the potential for larger format stores in mid size the progressive improvement of our cost to sales ratio: markets beyond the 160 towns originally identified as suitable for the Project and the development of our business in France, where we have Heartland treatment.
We have carried out an initial trial of 6 stores of identified opportunities for growth.
between 4,000 and 6,000 square feet in selected markets in which we would typically have expected to operate stores of between 1,500 and Improving and extending our trading space 2,000 square feet.
Early indications from this trial are positive.
We intend Our UK store portfolio has been substantially improved through the to pilot a further 10 stores this autumn, which will add approximately continuing roll out of our two successful store initiatives, Project 300 and 30,000 square feet to our space growth programme in 2004.
Project 300 is focused on updating 300 of our smaller stores in order to grow like for like sales.
By March 2003, we had completed a total of 193 of the 300.
The balance will be completed by March 2004.
We are very pleased with the results of Project 300, which is stimulating like for like sales and enhancing perceptions of the New Look brand while achieving payback on our initial cash investment in only fifteen months.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED This programme is driven by sector growth and by increasing demand for our In 2001, we made a major investment in a new IT platform that has greatly product.
Over the next five years, we plan to expand our space from 1.38m increased the scope of our UK distribution capacity an essential underpinning square feet at March 2003 to approximately 2.15m square feet in the UK of future growth.
We already use ratio packs, which enable product to be by 2008.
For 2004, we had originally planned an additional 145,000 square efficiently grouped, and are progressively introducing cross-docking systems feet.
We have already exchanged contracts on over 87% of this figure, and which make for much faster product handling because they cut out the are raising our 2004 target to 175,000 square feet.
This includes the pilot need for repeated unpacking and repacking between arrival and despatch.
stores mentioned above, together with a new flagship store on Oxford Street in London.
Benchmarking costs to world class standards The effective management of our cost base is a key part of our strategy A strong brand with broad appeal and good growth potential for sustainable growth.
World class standards, which we estimate to be New Look has established its ability to offer customers a wide choice of approximately 38% of sales, provide our benchmark.
Last year we said that true fashion product at highly competitive prices.
In the 52 weeks to 9 March our aim was to reduce our cost of sales from 43% to 40% by 2005.
We 2003, New Look increased market share by 0.6% to a 4.1% share of the are over a year ahead of schedule with this objective, recording a cost sales UK womens clothing market Source: Taylor Nelson Sofres, placing us among ratio of 40.8% for the year to March 2003.
We continue to leverage our the top three womenswear retailers in Britain.
Over the same period, we flatter structure, lower store rents and improved distribution systems to demonstrated the breadth of our appeal by increasing our share of the sustain our long term development as an efficient, cost-effective fashion 25-44 age bracket to 6.0%, a rise of 33% on the previous year.
New Look has traditionally been strong in casualwear, including T-shirts, jeans Seizing the opportunity in France and easy, informal clothes.
We have a good opportunity to grow share Our Group Development Director, Carl McPhail, is leading the development and to extend the scope of our ranges, by introducing more coats, tailoring, of our operations in France.
We also plan to extend transitional product items delivered to stores in spring and autumn that enable us to maintain sales Following a strategic review of our French business, we were pleased to momentum between the more clearly defined summer and winter seasons.
announce, on 29 May, our intention to purchase the outstanding minority interests in Mim.
The financial aspects of this transaction are set out in Our clothing ranges have now been complemented with new product the Finance Directors Review, which you will find on page 11.
This is an categories such as footwear, accessories and lingerie.
Last year we enjoyed important and positive step forward for the Group.
We believe we can strong growth in all three areas.
Our share of the expanding accessories achieve sales and margin improvement in our French business, driven by market increased by 47%, and our market share in footwear increased by a comprehensive programme that draws on the planning template and 50%, making us the fastest growing footwear retailer in the UK.
We are the skills we have applied to good effect in the UK.
To this end, we also working to achieve further gains in both core and new product categories.
announced a number of new appointments in key roles, which will strengthen our French management team and enhance our ability to accelerate the Capacity to support future expansion development of the business.
Our potential to grow market share is underpinned by an infrastructure that enables us to source and deliver quality product at high speed.
Doing this on a consistent basis depends on accurate trend prediction, effective distribution systems and a flexible, responsive business culture.
6 ANNUAL REPORT 2002 03 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We have already embarked on a three year programme of action in France.
Our immediate priorities include better range planning, the introduction of merchandising and more effective stock control in order to minimise UK MARKET SHARE BY AGE markdowns.
We are focused on improving performance before committing to further large-scale expansion.
We aim to continue to control cost growth in France as tightly as in the UK.
This year, we are limiting the store opening programme to an additional 60,000 square feet of trading space, compared to the 77,000 square feet added in 2003.
7.9% Delivering sustainable growth We are proud of what we have accomplished in New Look over the past 7.2% three years.
Our fundamental strengths include a depth of market knowledge, first-class product skills, excellent supplier relationships, and a highly motivated workforce.
Rigorous analysis and thorough testing have preceded all our 6.0% successful initiatives.
With the same approach in mind, we plan to drive New Looks potential to deliver earnings growth through the strategy I have described.
