NEXT PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW INTRODUCTION Sales up In the year ended January 2003 Group turnover was 2,202.6m, 18% ahead of the previous year.
Sales in NEXT Retail were up 16%.
18% NEXT Directory had a particularly good year with sales up 30%.
The year consisted of 53 weeks for NEXT Retail and Directory, compared with 52 weeks last year.
This accounts for 1.6% of Retail sales growth and 2.7% of Directory sales growth.
On a comparable basis Retail like-for-like sales increased by 3.3%.
The NEXT Brand profit will have benefited by approximately 5m as a result of the extra week this year.
Operating The operating profit before interest and taxation increased by 17%.
The share buyback programme had two significant effects on our profit up profit and loss account: 17% An increased interest charge meant that profits after tax increased by 11%.
EarningsEarnings per share grew by 18% ahead of the increase in operating profit despite an increased tax charge due to the reduced per share number of shares in issue.
up 18% A more detailed explanation of the rationale and effects of the share buyback programme are given in a later section.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT Turnover and profit figures are set out in the table below: Turnover Profit Excluding VAT Before Tax 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m NEXT Retail 1,579.7 1,359.7 213.9 188.2 NEXT Directory 471.7 362.2 65.1 49.2 The NEXT Brand 2,051.4 1,721.9 279.0 237.4 NEXT Franchise 22.7 19.1 4.4 3.7 Ventura 97.4 101.9 11.2 13.0 Other activities 31.1 28.8 15.1 12.5 ESOP charge 8.2 8.0 Turnover & operating profit 2,202.6 1,871.7 301.5 258.6 17% Interest expense income 0.3 7.2 Profit before tax 301.2 265.8 Taxation 90.7 76.0 Profit after tax 210.5 189.8 11% Earnings per share 68.7p 58.1p 18% STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL OBJECTIVE Sustainable The financial objective of the Group is to maximise sustainable long-term growth in earnings per share.
Over the last five years long term earnings per share have grown by 86%.
growth in We aim to grow EPS by: EPS Continuing to advance the underlying operating profit of the NEXT Group.
This will mainly be achieved through the development of product ranges, expansion of our selling space and the growth of our home shopping business.
Continuing to enhance growth in EPS through the buying back of our shares for cancellation as and when it is in the interests of our shareholders generally.
three NEXT PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE NEXT BRAND Improving style, quality and value The style, quality and value of our ranges remains our highest priority.
We believe that it is the product that makes the brand successful, not vice versa.
We will continue to pass on the benefits of better buying, by offering the same quality product at lower prices or a better product at the same price.
This effort will remain at the heart of our business going forward.
Autumn Winter 2002 selection issues Selection During the Autumn it became apparent that some of the Womenswear ranges were too narrowly focussed and had some important issues omissions.
As a result we reviewed selection procedures in order to ensure that future ranges were better balanced.
We were unable reduced to make any significant improvements to these ranges before Christmas, but have been able to make improvements to the spring and like-for-like summer ranges.
We believe the benefits of these changes will become more apparent as the season progresses.
sales in autumn New product development We continue to develop and expand our product ranges where we believe an understanding of our customers, combined with our design skills, can genuinely add value.
We have made good progress this year in the following new and developing areas: Lingerie, Maternity, Bodycare, Gifts, Kitchen, Bathroom, Skiwear and Fresh Flowers.
Whilst these new areas are exciting, we anticipate that the majority of our growth will still come from the development of our core clothing and home ranges.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEXT RETAIL Rationale for space expansion Our most important objective in NEXT Retail is to profitably expand our selling space.
We believe that new space will continue to make a contribution to the growth of sales and profits in the years ahead, because it enables us to offer our customers a greater choice of product in a more comfortable shopping environment.
The drive for new space is governed by strict financial criteria.
Every new store aims to pay back the net capital invested in less than 24 months and to achieve at least 15% store profit on sales before distribution and central costs.
When appraising new stores we do not factor in any future like-for-like growth, the store must achieve its investment criteria on the basis of its expected first year sales.
Performance of new space This year our space expansion programme has been particularly successful.
The portfolio of new space is exceeding its appraised sales Sales from target by 14% and will pay back the net capital invested in 12 months.
new space exceeding target by Profile of new space 14% During the year we added a net 357,000 square feet to our trading space, increasing the total by 18% to 2,338,000 square feet.
The table below shows how the shape of our portfolio has changed over the last three years.
will reduce For example when we appraised a new out of town store near Bedford we estimated a reduction in turnover in the Bedford town stated centre store.
As expected there has been a significant downturn in the original store, but it still makes more than 20% store profit like-for-like and will therefore remain trading.
sales Retail companies define like-for-like sales in different ways.
NEXT includes all stores that have traded for at least one full year and that have not benefited from capital expenditure amounting to more than 2% of their annual turnover.
Inevitably this includes all those stores that have been affected by new openings.
We have never made adjustments for deflected sales when stating our like-for-like sales.
Therefore, the addition of new space reduces our stated like-for-like sales and we estimate that the effect of this attrition last year was 1%.
The year ahead We currently expect to increase net selling space by at least 400,000 square feet in the year ahead.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEXT DIRECTORY Our two main objectives in NEXT Directory are to: Increase the number of people using the Directory by increasing our customer base.
Increase the breadth of offer available to order from home through increasing the number of pages.
Growing the customer base Continued The growth in new customers has made the most significant contribution to the growth of sales in our home shopping division.
During growth in the year we made good progress and start the new year with 22% more customers than a year ago.
customer January 2003 January 2002 Growth numbers Total active customers 1,467,000 1,201,000 22% We expect to make further progress with recruitment, although not at this exceptional rate.
Expansion of pages and product offer We have increased the number of pages in order to expand the choice of product available to the NEXT home shopper.
In particular this has enabled us to develop our Home and Childrens ranges.
The table below shows how the pages printed for each product area have increased: Product pages 2003 2002 % Growth Womens 813 803 1% Mens 459 432 6% Childrens 422 352 20% Home 451 328 38% TOTAL 2,145 1,915 12% The NEXT Directory also allows us to trial new product areas without making the level of stock investment that would be required for a retail offer.
Improving service Directory Over the last 12 months we have continued to integrate our retail and home shopping services so that our customers can shop at services NEXT in the way that suits them the best.
For example during the last year we allowed our home shopping customers to have their in store purchases delivered to a convenient store for collection free of any delivery charge.
Currently one in twenty Directory deliveries are being made in this way.
five NEXT PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We have no preference as to whether our customers buy in Retail or through the Directory.
Our priority is that they purchase in whichever way is the most convenient for them because in this way they are more likely to purchase again.
The profitability of sales through alternative channels is not significantly different.
In the year ahead we will be particularly focussed on improving our delivery service on furniture, where we experienced some difficulties last year.
NEXT FRANCHISE Our overseas franchise operation had another successful year, with sales increasing by 19% and profit by 20%.
At the end of January 2003 we had 59 franchise stores compared with 49 the previous year.
We expect continued progress in the year ahead.
VENTURA Focus on Venturas profit decreased to 11.2m compared with 13m the previous year.
The reduction is mainly attributable to margin pressure delivering in the call centre industry.
good Ventura cannot expect high margins in an industry where there is little to differentiate competing services.
We must offer a high service at quality service at very reasonable prices, and to that end we must rigorously manage our cost base whilst delivering excellent excellent operations to our clients.
Significant progress has been made in this area over the last year and as a result Ventura has won three prices important new contracts in the Insurance, Energy and Public Sectors.
During the year we reduced the outstanding consumer receivables by 5m to 12m.
This process of collecting out the existing debt is profitable and will continue.
Ventura expects to use all existing operational facilities over the next 12 months as a result of winning new business.
Further capital investment will be made at our Leeds and Dearne Valley sites to increase capacity and improve efficiency in the year ahead.
OTHER ACTIVITIES New The profit of 15.1m last year 12.5m includes 17.9m from NEXT Asia, our product sourcing company in the Far East, and a first sourcing time contribution of 0.3m from NEXT Near East, which we purchased during the year.
This division sources product in Turkey, office in Romania and Sri Lanka.
Other Activities also includes our Property Management Division, Choice an associated company which Near East operates a chain of twelve discount stores, Callscan which was sold during the year and Central Costs.
We have continued to recognise the cost of our Sharesave and Management share option schemes through the Profit and Loss account.
Over the past five years the average annual cost has been 5.2m, this year the charge amounted to 8.2m compared with 8m last year.
Over 7,000 of our employees currently hold a total of 9 million share options in NEXT.
Increase An actuarial valuation of our defined benefit pension scheme was again undertaken during the year.
This determined that at 31 March in pension 2002 scheme assets represented 98% of scheme liabilities, compared with 107% at the previous years valuation.
However, since then charge the market value of scheme assets has fallen.
Under SSAP24 we estimate that at 1 February 2003 with the FTSE 100 index at 3,567 of 5m there was a past service deficit of around 62m, which would require an additional charge of 5m per annum over the next thirteen years.
The net pension liability under FRS 17 at 1 February 2003 is estimated to be 71.2m.
SHARE BUYBACKS In 2000 the Board decided to embark on a programme to enhance earnings per share through share buybacks.
Since that time the issued share capital of the Company has been reduced by 25% from 374 million shares to 280 million.
In the last financial year we purchased 44 million shares for cancellation at an average price of 893p, representing 13% of the shares in issue at the beginning of the year.
As shares were purchased throughout the year the full effect of the buyback will be spread over two years.
During the year the average shares in issue fell from 335 million to 314 million and, as a direct result, earnings per share were enhanced by 3%.
The current year will benefit from further significant enhancement as a consequence of these purchases.
Rationale for share buybacks Maintaining Share buybacks allow us to leverage our balance sheet and expected future cash flows without changing the underlying operational focus risks of the NEXT Group.
In this way they enhance earnings per share without deflecting management time from the core business.
At the heart of this programme is the ability of the Company to generate strong free cash flows after allowing for significant investment in new stores.
six NEXT PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Buyback The Board has set two important limitations on the use of debt to buy back shares.
will not The primary use of capital will continue to be investment in the development of our core businesses.
We do not see share restrict buybacks as an alternative to capital investment.
capital We intend to maintain the Companys investment grade credit rating.
investment Effect on future cash flows Minimal The acquisition of shares at current prices and interest rates does not significantly affect the Companys ongoing cash flow.
This is effect on because the resulting additional cost of interest is almost completely offset by tax and dividend savings.
future cash flows Capital reconstruction In November we obtained shareholder and Court approval for a capital reconstruction to increase our distributable reserves.
The new listed holding company was renamed NEXT plc and shareholders received one new share in exchange for each share previously held.
Distributable reserves have thereby been increased and they will not be a limiting factor when considering dividends or share buybacks for the foreseeable future.
Buybacks in the current year Since the year end 6.6 million shares have been purchased and cancelled at a cost of 52m, leaving 280 million shares in issue.
We currently have shareholder approval to purchase up to a further 9% and, at our AGM in May, we will seek to renew the authority to purchase shares.
We intend to continue with our policy of buying back shares as and when it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW Capex At January 2003 net borrowings were 189m compared with net cash of 194m the previous year.
The cash outflow of 383m was of 86m due primarily to the 392m cost of shares purchased for cancellation.
Capital expenditure amounted to 86m, which included 64m on stores.
Stock levels at 235m were in line with our trading requirements despite being significantly ahead of last year.
In January 2002 we were under-stocked, and the increase in stock on two years ago is in line with the increase in sales over that period.
After each end of season Sale we write all residual stock down to 30% of original cost and at January 2003 this stock amounted to 7% of the total.
DIVIDEND Consistent The Directors are pleased to recommend a final dividend of 21p against 18.5p last year, bringing the total for the year to 31p record of compared with 27.5p last year, an increase of 12.7%.
The dividend is covered 2.2 times by earnings per share of 68.7p.
increases CURRENT TRADING In the first seven weeks since the start of the new financial year NEXT Retail sales are 13% ahead of the previous year.
Like-for-like sales in the 289 stores which have been trading for at least one year are level with last year.
NEXT Directory sales for the first seven weeks are also 13% ahead of the previous year.
We will make a further statement on current trading at our Annual General Meeting on 13 May 2003.
Simon Wolfson Chief Executive 27 March 2003 seven
