Chief executives statement Jo Stewart Our aim remains the creation of shareholder value as the most effective Synergy development added value food manufacturer addressing the UK retail market.
Central to the Northern Foods proposition is the belief that each of our activities should have bespoke strategies tailored to their precise market By focusing on the supply of added value products to the major retailers, type, positioning and customer profile.
We then seek to overlay scale and and on innovation and the highest food standards, we have positioned synergy benefits that reflect the size and strength of our group.
These are ourselves to benefit from the key long term trends in our market concentrated in six key areas: place.
Organisational and strategic refinement, combined with prudent investment, are designed to drive further improvements in our market development and customer relations, including the identification competitiveness.
of market trends and opportunities and the exploitation of group strengths to drive category management for our key customers: Market environment productivity, with an emphasis on continuously improving the effectiveness In a time of increasing economic uncertainty, the food market stands out of our manufacturing activities and supply chain: for its long term overall stability.
The sectors on which we have chosen to focus continue to outperform the market as a whole, driven by consumer procurement, ensuring that correct standards are applied and cost demand for increasing convenience and quality.
The UK retailing reduction strategies developed to optimise value in use of the materials environment, always demanding, awaits the outcome of the competition we purchase: authorities review of the various options for further consolidation.
However food technology, applying the latest scientific advances in a practical this finally unfolds, we believe that Northern Foods is strongly placed as a way to aid innovation and productivity across the business: well-invested business capable of meeting retailer needs for innovation, quality assurance, service and value.
systems, both in management processes and information technology, to provide a common platform for use within our business activities: Retailer consolidation will inevitably be matched by rationalisation of their people, including recruitment, training and development, and the effective supply base, and some players will not survive this process.
This may lead deployment of management resources.
to some instability, but this should correct itself as a more stable supply base emerges.
We are confident that Northern Foods will be a winner from the Over the last year, we have placed particular emphasis on productivity further consolidation of food manufacturing in the UK.
We have a common group-wide approach to the measurement and improvement of manufacturing performance, utilising Business focus a lean manufacturing template to drive efficiencies in our factories.
This We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that we have the right is accompanied by the strengthening of our group buying disciplines for profile to achieve the returns and value generation we seek.
The changes raw materials and packaging, which will enhance consistency and quality we have made in recent years, through acquisitions, disposals and as well as delivering cost savings.
investments in new facilities, have been designed to drive Northern Foods further up the scale of both added value and convenience.
Good examples These initiatives are assisted by our investment in systems, with the roll-out of this include the development of new facilities to manufacture chilled of a common SAP platform for all our companies well advanced and poised ready meals and stonebaked pizzas, and our withdrawal from van sales to deliver further benefits in the future.
We remain confident that our recent major investment and restructuring projects have been accurately targeted Prospects and will deliver the expected returns.
In the near term, we anticipate levels We will continue to refine our portfolio to ensure that it is attuned both of capital expenditure to be similar to last year as we concentrate on to market trends and to our core competencies as a group.
Relationships delivery from these past initiatives.
with our key retailer partners will continue to be fostered to ensure we become even closer and more proactive, with a high priority accorded to Trading innovation, and synergies between our businesses exploited ever more Our Convenience businesses have delivered good top line growth, based systematically.
Our ability to cope with testing times has been strengthened on the positive consumer and retailer trends we had identified.
This has also by the strategy and investments we have put in place, and our teams have been translated into strong profit progress.
Clearly performance in Grocery demonstrated great resilience and dedication in defending and building our has been disappointing, chiefly as a result of intense competitor activity in business, and seeking new opportunities for growth.
biscuits, including the entry of new players from the confectionery sector and significant increases in cocoa costs.
Despite these well-publicised issues, Jo Stewart Foxs remains one of the strongest and most profitable brands in its sector, Chief executive and urgent action is being taken to stabilise the business through accelerated new product development, price increases and cost reductions.
Our other Grocery businesses, principally in the frozen foods sector, have continued to perform well.
Northern Foods plc Chief executives statement | 03
