969 01-05 18 3 04 12:52 pm Page 04 Novar annual report 2003 04 Group Chief Executives review Group Chief Executives review Our businesses continue to outperform their markets.
We continue to invest to enhance our competitiveness and to accelerate our growth once economic activity returns to more normal levels.
Our businesses continue to outperform their Indalex Aluminum Solutions markets.
Our investments in new products and The North American soft alloy extrusions markets commercial and market initiatives are driving our saw some recovery in the final quarter of the year.
share in markets that were generally down on Over the full year the markets were down 1%, 2002.
We continue to while Indalex grew volumes 2%, outperforming invest to enhance our competitiveness and to in the key residential construction and accelerate our growth once economic activity transportation markets.
returns to more normal levels.
Our partnership with Asia Aluminum Group Intelligent Building Systems IBS continues to prosper.
Volumes sourced from The reorganisation of the IBS sector into an Asia are up over 35% this year.
Our continuing integrated global structure has created new investment in 25% of the Asia Aluminum Group opportunities, by allowing us to promote the full has recorded associated earnings of 6m range of IBS solutions to our customers worldwide.
2002: 4m and we have received a dividend To integrate delivery, a major restructuring of our of 1.9m 2002: 1.6m.
UK, US and German logistics operations has now completed phase one, resulting in improved Security Printing Services delivery and cost performance.
Security Printing had another strong year, achieving record sales and operating profits in US In 2003, Novar Projects, established in the UK and dollars.
Margins improved as business grew in Germany, began to contribute substantial new the higher value added contact centre and business.
In the UK, we won the Fire Detection Internet order channels, and production costs and Building Control contracts at London were cut.
A major restructuring programme, Heathrows new Terminal 5, worth more than closing four printing plants and one older contact 40m to be delivered over the next several years.
centre, was completed in the year.
We see further opportunities in the worldwide airports market, as we are bringing on stream As announced at the interim results, Clarke exciting new products for these customers.
Americans contract with its largest partner bank was renewed for another seven years and Overall, IBS trading performance reflects the extended to cover the provision of all of its continued weakness in new commercial cheque related product and service construction in the UK, US and Germany, where requirements.
The new business was successfully key markets were down 6% to 10%.
Against this, introduced at the end of the third quarter and will we achieved solid growth in the US, including contribute fully to earnings from 2004.
Alerton, and further growth in the Middle East and Southern and Eastern Europe.
Progress in Current trading and outlook the UK was driven by a strong performance in Fire Intelligent Building Systems markets remain Detection and Wiring Devices.
weak, with soft underlying demand for commercial building construction everywhere.
969 01-05 18 3 04 12:52 pm Page 05 Novar annual report 2003 Group Chief Executives review continued 05 Key messages Our investments in new products and commercial and market We have important new products and project activity coming on stream to drive market share.
initiatives are driving our market Recently we have seen patchy improvement in share gains.
North American aluminium extrusions demand.
With pressure on pricing unabated, it is difficult to project this market for 2004.
Indalex Aluminum Solutions expects to continue to grow its The Fire Detection and Building market share and will also benefit from further reductions in its fixed cost base.
Control contracts at London The outlook for the US cheque market is slightly Heathrows new Terminal 5 down.
Clarke Americans continuing success in developing its contact centre and online are worth more than 40m.
business, which enhances revenue per order, should continue to support solid revenue and profit performance of our Security Printing business at constant currencies.
Indalex grew volumes 2%, Restructuring costs are likely to be similar to outperforming in the key those in 2003, but more significantly weighted to the first half of the year.
Importantly, the residential construction and continuing weakness and uncertain level of the US dollar will impact the reported results transportation markets.
of our US based businesses, particularly in the first half of 2004.
Despite the uncertain trends in demand, we Security Printing had another expect to make further underlying progress at constant currencies as our investments in strong year, achieving record sales markets, new products and cost productivity continue to drive sales and margins.
and operating profits in US dollars.
Jurgen Hintz Group Chief Executive 969 06-11 18 3 04 12:52 pm Page 06 Novar annual report 2003 06 Intelligent Building Systems Intelligent Building Systems IBS lands Terminal 5 BAA has awarded a five year contract to Novar Projects for the design, supply and installation of the fire detection, voice alarm and building management systems at Terminal 5, Heathrow.
6,500 employees serving the worldwide construction industry Operating in over 30 countries from North America through Europe, the Middle East and Asia Comprehensive portfolio including fire detection and alarm, energy management and environmental control, access control and intruder alarm, CCTV, and data and cable management systems 969 06-11 18 3 04 12:53 pm Page 07 Novar annual report 2003 Intelligent Building Systems continued 07 The systems at Terminal 5 will together establish new benchmarks for the design, delivery, integration and operation of life-safety and building services control equipment, not just in airports but in commercial Novar Intelligent Building Systems is a global business buildings generally.
Indeed Novars project supplying electrical, electronic and control products management skills and experience already extend well and services to building operators, contractors and beyond its established businesses in the UK, Germany developers worldwide.
With operations in over 30 and North America.
countries in North America, Europe, the Middle East, India, South East Asia and China, Novars intelligent The International Markets division of Intelligent Building building systems include a wide range of high Systems is involved in a wide range of projects around quality, innovative offerings for fire detection and the world, with Novar products installed in many alarm, energy management and environmental landmark buildings including commercial office and control, access control and intruder alarm, CCTV and retail complexes, theatres, art galleries, hotels, hospitals electrical and data connectivity.
and major public infrastructure works.
Novar has a proven track record of bringing innovative In Spain, Essers early warning fire detection system has solutions, processes and products to the construction been installed in the financial city of the Banco fide industry.
Todays buildings are sophisticated Santander Central Hispano in Madrid.
The complex environments: they have complex requirements for of four buildings and some 35,000 square metres of safety, comfort and effective business operations, in office space will house more than 25,000 Esser fire other words, high intelligence, high capacity systems.
detectors, monitored by Novars market leading centralised management software system.
Novar Intelligent Building Systems works with customers, installers, value added resellers, distributors, specifiers In Dubai, the Madinat Jumeirah resort complex, and end-users.
Our experience in delivering large scale designed to be one of the most luxurious resort projects worldwide, across a broad scope of different complexes in the world, will include MKs Insignia range applications, is illustrated by the success we have had of wiring devices and Gents fire detection systems, with the Heathrow T5 project.
building on Novars success in supplying fire detection and safety equipment at the neighbouring Jumeirah In 2003 BAA awarded Novar contracts worth more than Beach Hotel, featured below.
40 million to supply the life-safety and building management systems for Heathrow Terminal 5, one of In Singapore, Novar is involved with several prestigious Europes largest and most sophisticated construction building projects including the Stock Exchange projects.
Comprising a Gent fire detection, voice alarm Building, the new Supreme Court, and Capital Tower, and public address system and a Trend system to with Gent, MK and Ega products all supplied and control and monitor all heating, ventilation and air installed.
The Common Services Tunnel Stage 1, conditioning plant serving the T5 campus, the Novar comprising some 1.4 kilometres of linked tunnels, will package will be the largest of its type ever to be accommodate a series of underground utilities such as installed in the UK.
The systems use of innovative water pipes and power and telecommunications cables, technology, some of it being specially developed for and is being designed to service the new downtown the project, will have significant whole-life cost benefits financial and business hub development in Marina for the new terminal.
Novars use of advanced design, South.
In addition to Trends building controls, there are testing and manufacturing techniques will play a crucial opportunities for electrical trunking and cabling and part in ensuring successful completion of the contract.
Finally, Novar has recently been The proven ability of its supply chain to achieve awarded the contract to supply fire detection and industry leading order turnaround times, while virtually life-safety systems at a large new terminal building eliminating defects, will be especially important.
at Changi Airport, building on its success at Heathrow.
A Gent integrated fire and voice alarm system is installed at the 600 room Jumeirah Beach Hotel in Dubai.
