02 PHS Group plc Chairmans statement Bob Mackenzie 03 PHS Group plc Significant progress has been made with Service productivity and customer service all divisions delivering improved performance measured by the percentage of contracted largely through a combination of organic services completed on time continued to and acquisition growth.
These key performance indicators strategy continues to progress in line are closely monitored as part of our with the plan set out at flotation in commitment to customer satisfaction.
June 2001 to invest 100m in earnings Further benefits in these areas are expected enhancing acquisitions over three years.
from our continued investment in the Financial highlights of the last year development of our new IT systems.
included the following: A number of new supplier contracts were negotiated in the year, which are Turnover from continuing operations for expected to result in ongoing savings the year ended 31 March 2003 increased of 1.2m per annum.
Operating profit from continuing Board changes In October 2002, Keith operations increased by 22.6% Bland retired as Finance Director.
had given 18 years of service to PHS and we wish him every success for the future.
Operating profit margins from He was replaced as Finance Director by continuing operations improved John Skidmore, who was promoted to from 29.3% to 29.5%.
the Board from his post as Group Financial Profit before tax increased by 24.1% Controller, which he held for six years.
People We continue to deliver strong Basic earnings per share increased by results largely because of the dedication 24.3% to 4.91p 2002 adjusted : 3.95p.
of our most important asset, our people.
Net cash inflow from operating activities Significant investment in training and increased by 30.4% to 46.8m development at all levels along with a policy 2002: 35.9m reflecting an operating of making internal promotions wherever profit to cash conversion of 113.6% possible help to keep our workforce highly 2002: 106.8%.
motivated, although we recognise the importance of external recruitment to bring Investment of 37.5m in 16 acquisitions new ideas and experiences to our business.
over the year, including the 14.6m I would like to take this opportunity to acquisition of Teacrate.
thank the entire workforce for their skill, Interest cover remains strong, being hard work and commitment without which covered eight times by operating profit.
the Group could not continue its successful development to date.
Total dividend for the year of 0.55p per share 2002: 0.42p.
Outlook We have set ourselves robust, In our first full financial year since listing challenging, but realistic targets for the new on the London Stock Exchange, PHS has financial year and beyond.
I am confident continued to deliver strong results.
that we will succeed and deliver another Organic growth in the contract pool progressive performance through a of 5.0% was achieved year on year, largely combination of organic growth and our driven by our highly motivated sales force continuing selective acquisition strategy.
and supported by a number of new We anticipate that our organic growth will marketing initiatives aimed at using our continue to be driven by a combination existing customer database more effectively.
of innovative new products and services.
We also launched a number of new products and services in the year to Bob Mackenzie Chairman reinforce our position as an extremely innovative and creative supplier of services within our sector.
Supplementing organic growth, the Group invested 37.5m in 16 acquisitions.
These comprised 15 acquisitions bolted-on to our existing business and one larger acquisition, Teacrate, which took us into the crate rental market and created a fifth operating division for the Group.
See Financial review for an explanation of the adjustments made to profit before tax and earnings per share in 2002.
The actual profit before tax has increased by 104.1% from 17.7m in 2002 and the actual earnings per share has increased by 17.5% from 4.18p in 2002.
Organic growth in the contract pool is a measure of the increase in the annualised value of active contracts at 31 March 2003 compared to the annualised value of active contracts at 31 March 2002, less the annualised value of contracts acquired in the year.
