Chief Executive Officers review During 2003 we continued to progress our business by developing our technology and products.
It was a year of stabilisation, but one in which we achieved our major business goals The global business climate improved in 2003, Licensing, product development and TrustZone technology will greatly improve the particularly towards the end of the year.
As a new technology security of mobile devices, which is a major result, the technology industry appears to have Licensing is fundamental to our business: concern for handset suppliers and service shaken off much of the uncertainty which it drives royalties and underpins our future providers.
Our IEM technology is continuing characterised the first two years of the new profitability.
Activity gradually picked up in our relentless push to improve the power decade and, while we cannot be sure how the third quarter and continued into the fourth.
efficiency of battery-operated devices: and long it will take for these improvements to In 2003, we signed a total of 51 licences for we are taking significant steps in enabling result in increased licensing activity, the change microprocessors: of these, 25 were multi-use the development of complex and efficient in the economic environment is welcome.
We signed solutions, partly through our work with NEC licences with 26 new companies, bringing the in Symmetrical Multi-Processing SMP.
The improvement in the economy, combined total number of semiconductor partners to with the adjustments to our cost base made 128.
Of the 26 new partners, seven took These, together with other technologies in the fourth quarter of 2002, enabled us to multi-use licences and 19 per-use licences.
announced in 2003, are complementary to improve quarterly revenues throughout 2003 the growing range of our cores.
and to achieve strong net cash generation each 2003 was another busy and rewarding year quarter.
Our decision to maintain a high level in terms of our product development.
Market In October, we launched two new ARM11 of investment in research and development demand for microprocessor solutions that family microprocessors, the ARM1156T2-S R&D during the industry downturn enabled offer increased performance, security and core and the ARM1176JZ-S core, which us to introduce a number of new products.
include a number of these new features: they These are already driving licence revenue and are available for licensing now for delivery in are underpinning our confidence in our ability We introduced a number of new products mid-2004.
We delivered the first ARM11 core to increase revenue during 2004. during the year which incorporate new family-based product just over a year ago and technology features, including the TrustZone are encouraged by the rate at which this Gradual increases in quarterly revenue and security extension, the Thumb-2 core technology is being adopted.
So far, our tight cost control gave rise to improving margins technology for improved code density and partners have taken a total of ten licences.
excluding one-off legal settlement costs as Intelligent Energy Manager IEM hardware the year progressed.
The weakness of the and software for low-power consumption.
In December 2003, we announced a new dollar had an impact on revenue growth, These underpin the opportunities for licensing ARM9 family core, the ARM968E-S core, for particularly in the second half, but 2003 was in 2004 and beyond.
Our smallest, still a year of robust financial performance.
lowest-power, synthesizable ARM9E family core provides an ideal solution for networking 6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 applications, but will also be appropriate believe, is the fact that more of our partners between the parties, ARM agreed to pay for many applications in the automotive, began shipping more ARM Powered products, 6.4 million as part of the settlement consumer entertainment and wireless sectors.
including an increasing proportion based on agreement.
This amount has been charged our newer ARM9 family cores.
to the profit and loss account in 2003.
These new cores represent significant extensions to our range.
At the same time, We have traditionally been very strong in the The future we are working on our next-generation wireless market, but in recent years have Our commitment to R&D keeps us ahead of architecture.
We signed our first lead partner begun to mirror that success elsewhere and, the competition.
We maintained high levels for this technology in the third quarter of 2003. as a result, have improved the balance and of investment in innovation in 2003, even stability of our business.
Unit shipments in though it was a tough year, and the fruits The Foundry Programme other markets are now growing at the same of our labours are being realised with the The introduction of the ARM926EJ core to rate as those in the wireless market.
introduction of our new technologies.
While our Foundry Programme, which continues to better economic conditions should help us to provide an excellent entry point for companies Patent portfolio progress, much of the improvement we expect which are licensing our technology for the first The protection of our IP and the growth of in 2004 can be attributed to factors which are time, will help to maintain the momentum our patent portfolio are key priorities for the in our control, such as the availability of a in the programme.
Per-use licensees are now business.
In 2003, we filed twice as many number of new products for licensing.
able to have this product manufactured by patents as in 2002 and we anticipate that the two of our foundry partners, TSMC and UMC.
rate of filing will continue to increase in 2004.
We fully expect to build on our recent successes in the coming year.
Royalty revenues It is imperative that we defend our IP Substantial licensing in recent years resulted vigorously and, in that context, we were in a much higher number of ARM Powered encouraged that the partial summary devices being shipped than in 2002.
Our judgement ruling in Nazomis case against us Warren East Chief Executive Officer partners shipped 782 million ARM Powered for alleged patent infringement found in our devices in 2003, at a value of 44.3 million, favour.
The partial summary judgement ruled an increase of 71% on 2002s record of that products using the current commercial 456 million units.
design of the ARM Jazelle technology do not infringe Nazomis patent.
Nazomi has The fact that volumes increased across all appealed against the ruling, but we are markets demonstrates that our core-based confident that the original ruling will be upheld.
designs are increasingly the architecture of choice.
There was also a significant increase In March 2004, we settled all outstanding in the number of partners shipping ARM issues with Herodion picoTurbo Inc. s Powered devices from 43 at the end of successor entity relating to the out-of-court 2002, to 60 by the end of 2003. settlement of the patent lawsuit against picoTurbo in December 2001.
Following the Part of this success can be attributed to the findings of an arbitration panel established to improved economy but more important, we resolve the issues and subsequent discussions ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 7
