Premier Farnell plc Chief Executives statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 6 Market overview Apart from Asia, where there was Chief Executives statement In the last two years, we have some uplift, particularly in the middle experienced an unprecedented and second half of 2002, our markets decline in the electronics market, have now been, at best, flat for and we have also seen an overall around eighteen months, proving economic slowdown in the that we were right to maintain our majority of the markets in which we cautious view.
In the first quarter of each of the last two years, some forecasters Maintaining our strategic focus have anticipated a recovery in the We have maintained determined second half of the year, particularly in progress on our key initiatives: putting North America, although there was in the software and the systems that no certainty about the pace and we need to service our customers precise timing.
We said then that we better: building services and were not going to count on help from improving the quality of our people.
the market, but that we would work Despite the poor market conditions on the assumption that there would we have maintained our investment be no improvement and be ready to in these areas.
react as we saw the market move up or down.
As soon as we saw We have continued to focus on the early signs of a downturn in improving the way we do business.
2001, we acted quickly and removed Our ongoing investment in a significant amount of cost from information technology is based the business.
During the last twelve on competitive advantage in our months, we have not repeated this kind of business increasingly moving scale of cost reduction, but have from the traditional, and still maintained a very tight control overall important, control of the physical and taken opportunities to cut out flow of goods to the management waste and duplication.
We believed and understanding of the information that we should turn our focus to associated with that flow.
delivering better and additional services to our customers.
We constantly strive to improve our customer service levels.
We have added eProcurement capabilities and developed new services.
ProductFind gives our customers access to six million products beyond those which we have in stock and ProductWatch alerts our design engineer customers when components are due to go obsolete so that they do not use them in new products.
We have focused on breaking down our customer base into appropriate segments to enable us to satisfy their particular needs more effectively.
Premier Farnell plc Chief Executives statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 We have continued to strengthen We have continued to build our our management team.
Laurence international presence to satisfy Bain was appointed Group Chief our customers needs and we Operating Officer in July 2002 and have opened offices in Italy, Belgium, a new Global Accounts Director, Austria and Mexico over the last senior personnel in marketing and twelve months.
strategic development in North America and a new Group Director We have clear examples of of Strategic Marketing and Planning significant progress in the market were also appointed during the year.
segments that we have particularly Two of these are internal chosen to focus on.
Our health appointments, which is of particular and safety business in the UK significance following a period where grew around 29 per cent overall most of our senior appointments last year and in the final quarter were made from outside.
We are was higher still, the result of merging now beginning to bring through the capabilities of our three UK talent from within the organisation.
The differing needs of design and maintenance Investing for growth engineers are better understood Our business strategy is designed and our attention to these two to deliver profitable growth.
groups of customers reflects their Competitive advantage in our Sales growth can come from new importance to us.
customers, new markets and higher kind of business is increasingly spend from existing customers.
Our focus on large customers moving from the traditional, This explains the focus of our produced encouraging results.
Sales activities in the following areas: to the US Government through an and still important, control of the agreement with the General Services Expansion of our product range Administration GSA awarded in May physical flow of goods, to the International development 2002, are up 12 per cent despite Deeper understanding of our Federal budget approval delay.
Sales management and understanding customers and markets through to designated major corporate segmentation accounts are up 3 per cent in North of the information associated Greater penetration of existing America and we have secured multi-national and large accounts agreements with 37 new large with that flow.
Ongoing improvement of customers across the Marketing and customer service.
Each one of these deals requires different Expansion of our product range combinations of products and continues to be one of our areas services and has been secured as a of development.
Over the last year direct result of our flexibility in we have added 46,000 products deploying the very wide range of to the Marketing and Distribution services we can provide.
Division and there will be more this year, particularly in North America.
eCommerce continues to offer a In March 2003, we doubled our major growth opportunity.
At Newark American range of passive InOne, sales through all our components by adding 11,000 electronic channels, including the new products.
That is a significant Internet and eProcurement, are up step forward in improving our 8 per cent, at Farnell InOne by product coverage and enables 82 per cent.
Sales through the us to win more of our existing eProcurement channel alone are up customers spending and to 52 per cent in North America.
customers transact between 30 per cent and 50 per cent of their business with us in their first year of utilising eProcurement.
control Premier Farnell plc Chief Executives statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 8 There were 43 new eProcurement We have a focused approach and partnerships established in North dedicated team of people who are America during the year, which takes well educated and well equipped to our total to 118, and a further 42 are manage this kind of business.
The demand from number of stock rooms now under new companies wishing to take our management or influence in advantage of the available North America is 246 compared to economies and efficiencies that 98 at this time last year.
In Europe, eProcurement offers appears not to the number is 157 and our sales diminish.
Sixty-seven new through the stockrooms we manage eProcurement partnerships in Europe rose by 27 per cent over last year.
this year takes our total to 108 and a Managing customers stockrooms further 36 are under negotiation or creates a close relationship with development.
these customers, one it is difficult for our competitors to match.
It is important to remember the basic elements of our business.
Where appropriate opportunities Customers come to us first and arise, we are also growing by foremost because we have a very acquisition as one potential route wide product range which they know to expanding our product or will be in stock and delivered reliably geographic coverage.
Beyond that, we offer InOne, acquired in July 2001, significant benefits from our flexibility has been a significant success in recognising and responding for us.
In a market that has declined, to customers particular needs, BuckHickman InOne sales in the our vendor managed inventory fourth quarter were up 16 per cent.
solutions and our eProcurement This excellent performance comes capability, where we have established not only from the closer collaboration a reputation for being the best in our of our businesses in the UK, class.
In a market where customers but also from our extensive range are continually striving to reduce the of services.
Significant amongst number of suppliers, manage costs these are our vendor managed and increase productivity we are well inventory expertise and our ability placed to take a share of that to help our customers gain business through our ability to deliver productivity benefits from managing efficiencies to their procurement their inventories.
wins which reflect this capability are the contracts we have been awarded by Vauxhall, announced in November 2002, and Rolls-Royce in March 2003.
This is business that we would not have been in a position to tender for eighteen months ago.
The main businesses in the Industrial Products Division, Akron Brass, TPC Wire & Cable and Kent have continued to make sound progress in difficult market conditions by adding products and services that have driven sales.
Greater productivity and improved margins have been realised at Akron Brass following the investment in new plant.
Sales productivity has improved at Kent after restructuring.
focus Premier Farnell plc Chief Executives statement Annual Report and Accounts 2003 continued 9 Communicating our capabilities We have increased our market share and working together to deliver progressively over the last couple of In February, we announced our years by concentrating on the things intention to rebrand a number of that enhance our customers the businesses in the Marketing experience.
We have continued to and Distribution Division.
Over the improve the performance of our last few years, we have made major business and we have demonstrated investments which have substantially the benefits of acquiring improved the quality of our BuckHickman InOne.
We have we are in a very strong position for increased our understanding of our continued market share growth and customers and market segments to take advantage of the market and we have added a wide range upturn when it comes.
Our businesses are now working together more effectively to give customers the service they expect.
It is appropriate, therefore, to signal to the market the range and depth of the services our businesses provide and how they work together in providing these services globally.
Rebranding with a new visual identity and the addition of the suffix InOne John Hirst gives us the opportunity to Group Chief Executive communicate our progress at the same time as retaining the historical value which resides in our existing business names.
We have rebranded those businesses which operate with the same kind of customers: BuckHickman InOne, Farnell InOne and Newark InOne.
Rebranding is a signal of our past achievements, our current capabilities and our future aspirations.
Continuing to strengthen our business We prefer to work on what we see as the realities of the market place, rather than what various forecasters might say.
When our markets improve we are ready to take full advantage of their recovery.
In the meantime, we are working on the basis that markets will continue as they are and we will continue to push hard to gain market share.
We have gained significant strength this year.
Tight control of costs has made our margins more robust in withstanding the market cycle.
