Statement from the Chairman and Chief Executive A year of investment and growth Over the past few years RAC plc has been reshaped with The Board proposes a final dividend of 14.6p, to bring the total a strategy to be the leading provider of motoring and vehicle dividend for the year to 24.3p, an increase of 5.7% on 2002. services to consumers and businesses.
We are pleased to report further good progress in 2003.
The growth in profit before interest, goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and tax from continuing operations is shown We have strong brands in RAC, Lex and BSM.
Our strategy in the table below: is to deliver growth by leveraging the strength of these brands 2003 2002 change and our customer base, together with our unique range of m m % motoring and vehicle services.
In this regard 2003 was a Consumer Services 51.3 43.2 19 good year for us.
In Consumer Services we successfully Business Services 50.8 46.9 8 implemented our new customer relationship management Other 5.7 3.6 system which will help us to provide more carefully targeted services to our individual customers.
In Business Services Total 96.4 86.5 11 we won more large, long-term contracts.
as per Note 1 to the accounts Our success depends crucially on our colleagues and on The strong momentum in our Consumer businesses continued the service they provide to our customers.
In the past year we in 2003, with revenue from continuing operations up 7%, were delighted to win a number of important awards as both driving a 19% increase in profit.
Roadside grew its customer an employer and as a service provider, with RAC plc, Lex base and revenues, as it has done each year since it was Vehicle Leasing, Lex Commercials, RAC Business Solutions, acquired in 1999.
Pleasingly, we saw the benets of innovation Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Transeet all receiving recognition.
come through in this business, with the new despatching system installed in 2002 and the bespoke rapid deployment In 2003 total revenues increased by just 1% to 1,526 million trailers introduced in 2003, both contributing to the delivery 2002 1,508 million, reecting the impact of disposals.
profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and tax grew by 24% to 86.7 million 2002 70.2 million.
Earnings per share on this basis increased by 24% to 54.4p 2002 43.9p.
After exceptional items, primarily associated with our withdrawal from the mechanical handling businesses, profit before tax was 25.7 million 2002 23.1 million and earnings per share calculated in accordance with FRS 14 were 8.3p 2002 8.5p.
The revenues from our continuing operations increased by 6% to 1,469 million 2002 1,390 million with profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and tax from these businesses up by 15% to 87.0 million 2002 75.7 million.
The Group continued to generate cash, while at the same time investing signicantly in future growth.
Total net debt reduced by 127.9 million from 282.2 million in 2002 to 154.3 million.
Andrew Harrison Peter Smith 12 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Beyond Roadside, we offer a growing range of motoring Our people services, including driving tuition, car insurance, glass RAC has been supporting motorists for over a century, and the replacement, legal support and travel assistance.
The Group has developed a strong culture of service to its members businesses providing these activities grew their revenues, and customers, for whom we are Always there.
BSM and Legal Services both delivered strong for the service are 12,000 colleagues, and we thank them for growth.
Financial Services revenues grew from a small base, the countless times when they have gone above and beyond but our ambitions are to increase the momentum in this the call of duty to deliver great service to our customers.
business still further with the benefit of our new systems and our customer base of over 3 million members.
We are working hard to make RAC plc an attractive place for colleagues to develop their careers.
We are committed to strong RAC Auto Windscreens had a challenging year in 2003 and, values which guide our decision making and recruitment despite a marginal increase in sales 0.9% to 96.9 million, processes.
We encourage open communication and feedback profits were down 15%.
We made significant changes to the from all parts of the Group in 2003 our colleagues were senior management team in the early part of the year.
The new engaged regularly in briengs from their business managing team dealt well with a supplier recall later in the year, caused directors and Executive Board members.
Our 2003 colleague by a faulty batch of adhesive, and approximately 9,000 satisfaction survey showed good progress with both an windscreens were retted, with a minimum of inconvenience increased response rate and a higher level of overall to customers.
There are a number of business improvement satisfaction.
Last year we highlighted the importance of programmes underway, but it will take time for these to take pensions.
Our decision to keep open our dened benefit scheme effect and trading remains challenging.
and extend its reach, was strongly supported by our colleagues and their union, and represents a valuable benefit to them.
The successful installation of our customer relationship management system in Consumer Services late in the year At Board level, we welcomed Richard Pennycook in August was a major landmark for us.
Although delayed, the switch and John Warren in September 2003.
Richard joined as our to the new system, involving millions of customer records, Group Finance Director and John as a non-executive director.
We are now better placed to understand our customers motoring needs and will be able to interact with Policy them more effectively.
We are confident that this will encourage RAC has always been an important voice of the motorist.
our members to purchase more products from us.
In conjunction with our partners in the RAC Foundation, we engage at all levels of government and through the media to Our Business Services operations also performed well in promote the interests of motorists.
Our most recent Report 2003, with revenues from continuing operations up by 6% on Motoring, now in its sixteenth year, highlighted the very and profits up by 8%.
Lex Vehicle Leasing, our joint venture significant cost of motoring with a quarter of average disposable with HBOS, had a record year: in November it passed the family income absorbed by the cost of car use and ownership.
milestone of having 100,000 vehicles on eet, all through Driving on the roads in Britain can be a miserable experience organic growth.
Then in December we announced a seven only one in four motorists claims to enjoy driving, and our legal year arrangement to take on 20,000 vehicles from Ford practice deals daily with the distress caused when our Financial and to manage the UK contract hire business members are involved in accidents with one of the one million for Ford and its sister marques.
Our deepening relationship drivers who are not properly taxed and insured.
RAC will with Ford, where we already provide roadside assistance continue to put forward constructive and informed advice to to customers buying new cars, reects good progress in our policy makers to help make motoring in Britain safer, quicker ambition to provide additional services to existing customers.
We also strengthened our relationship with the Ministry of Defence, building on the successful White Fleet contract, and Outlook we were delighted to be selected in partnership with Amey RAC is a strong and unique motoring and vehicle services as preferred bidder for the 500 million C Vehicles contract company which has delivered substantial growth in revenues which is expected to be awarded by October 2004, leading to and profits, together with strong cashow.
full service provision by April 2006.
During the year we also took on the management of the British Airways eet of specialist We expect to see continuing growth in 2004, despite the airside vehicles under a 10 year contract with lifetime revenues anticipated reduction in profits from our contracts with Paccar of 230 million.
The contract will be serviced by Lex Transeet, which we have highlighted previously.
Looking further ahead, supported by Lex Auto Logistics and Lex Commercials.
the strength of our brands, the breadth of our customer base and the investment we have made in systems and Last year we highlighted our dissatisfaction with the returns infrastructure will continue to offer significant growth being achieved in our mechanical handling businesses, and opportunities in both Consumer and Business Services.
our determination to restore shareholder value was confirmed with the sale, announced in April 2003, of Lex Harvey and Lex Birchwood.
In January 2004 we disposed of Lex Havelange, our small Belgian subsidiary and we are in active discussions with a number of interested parties concerning the disposal of Lex Manutention in France and Lex Komatsu South, our Peter Smith Andrew Harrison remaining UK mechanical handling business.
Our 2003 results Chairman Chief Executive include appropriate exceptional charges and asset impairments.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 13
