Chief Executives Report Today, Randgold Resources is a substantial, integrated gold business, with a distinctive brand built on the delivery of returns and the creation of value.
It has a sizable operational footprint in Africa and a strong presence in global capital markets.
10 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 hen we started this business, we charted a course for its growth and we have stuck to that through the ups and downs of the Wmarket, and occasionally over quite substantial obstacles.
Others sometimes saw our approach as contrarian, particularly in the early years, but by any measure it has brought us a long way.
Today, Randgold Resources is a substantial, integrated gold business, with a distinctive brand built on the delivery of returns and the creation of value.
It has a sizable operational footprint in Africa and a strong presence in global capital markets: a wealth of opportunities and a robust balance sheet through which to realise these.
It has a broad, supportive shareholder base and productive alliances with stakeholders and partners wherever it operates.
And, not least, it has a formidably accomplished management team which combines discipline with passion in everything it does.
We have reached this stage by consistently taking what we see as the basic steps in building a successful gold business.
Thus, for example, we have continuously invested in our future through exploration, development and the exploitation of opportunity, even when market conditions were poor and we could ill afford it.
With the gold price at its present high levels, much of the industry is chanting the mantra of discovery with the zeal of the recently converted: Randgold Resources, on the other hand, has always been committed to organic growth, and has demonstrably put its money where its mouth is.
From the solid foundations we have created, we are now well placed to advance to the next level.
Fast-forwarding Morila, green-lighting Loulo During the past year, Randgold Resources maintained a high rate of operational and corporate activity.
We pressed the fast forward button at our Morila joint venture, where the new plant expansion programme is currently being commissioned and where, in conjunction with our partners, we are aggressively hunting for new ounces within the lease area.
Morila is a prime example of organic value creation.
We discovered and built this great mine and, long before it went into production in October 2000, we predicted that it would be a company maker.
And so it has been, contributing US$264 million to our balance sheet to date.
Over the past three years, Morila has produced over 2.5 million ounces and has ranked as one of the industrys largest and highest margin producers.
There are still 3 million ounces left and probably more to be found but, in any event, Morila will continue to be a bountiful cash producer for at least another five years.
While costs have started to rise in line with forecast, all the project debt will have been paid off by June this year, after which every dollar above the operating cost goes straight to the bottom line.
Proving that Morila was not a once-off lucky strike, we are currently developing a new mine at Loulo, which became a viable proposition through our discovery of the 3 million ounce Yalea deposit there.
Loulo is obviously not the company maker that Morila has been, but it is a robust project in its own right, with potentially long legs.
While the open pit operation is being built - it is scheduled to start producing gold in July 2005 - we have embarked on a feasibility study on the underground resources and the opencast satellite resources.
The orebody extensions have already been defined, and we believe Loulo has a realistic prospect of growing well beyond its present six year horizon into a medium size long life producer, generating healthy and sustainable returns.
In the meantime, Resolute Mining are completing their due diligence of Syama and are scheduled to make a decision about buying our interest in this mine, which has been on care and maintenance since 2002, when Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 11 their option expires in April 2004.
If they do so, they will pay us US$6 Mineral rights table million and a royalty above a certain gold price level, and will assume Area Eqshort term liabilities up to a maximum of US$7 million.
As this difficult Area Sq uity chapter in our history draws to a close, we take some satisfaction from 2 Country Type km miles % the commercially sensible and socially responsible manner in which we believe we have dealt with Syama.
A national asset has been preserved and we may yet extract more value from it.
Mali Syama EP 191 74 80.0 Expanding the footprint Loulo EP 372 144 80.0 Randgold Resources strategies have a simple premise: sustainability is about replacing production profitably and value creation is about Morila EEP 289 112 80.0 discovering profitable ounces.
This is why our business is based on a Morila EP 200 77 40.0 constantly renewed foundation of prospects generated by our Koba EEP 58 22 85.0 aggressive exploration programmes.
These are subjected to an Tiorola EEP 257 99 70.0 evaluation and development process which converts the worthwhile Diokeleones into targets and then into feasibility projects and finally into mines.
bougou EEP 393 152 70.0 Dionkola EEP 248 96 70.0 During the past year, we have again extended the size and scope of our Kekoro EEP 241 93 50.0 exploration interests and activities.
In Mali, we have expanded our Sagala EEP 239 92 50.0 holdings around our operational centres at Morila and Loulo.
In Nafegue AE 250 97 85.0 addition to the search for more ounces on the Morila joint venture lease, Bamba AE 248 96 85.0 we are continuing to develop and evaluate targets in the region around 2 the mine, where we have holdings of some 2 500 km.
Six new targets Cte have been defined for drill testing in this area, and two new permits acquired.
A major structural zone with surface gold anomalies and dIvoire gold in bedrock has already been identified 50 km west of the mine and Nielle EEP 671 259 75.0 drilling there and at other targets in the area will start soon.
Similarly at Boundiali EEP 1 314 1 014 75.0 Loulo, aside from the drilling to confirm the scope of the underground Dabakala EEP 191 74 75.0 potential at the mine, we are pursuing opportunities in the surrounding Mankono RP 704 271 75.0 region.
The most significant of these is our cooperative agreement with Sikolo RP 500 193 75.0 the Sitakili artisanal community on a prospect which shows similarities to the mineralisation at Segala and Tabakoto.
Senegal KanoumeAcross the border in Senegal, in addition to the already defined targets, ring EEP 405 156 85.0 we have outlined a major new goldbearing structure on the Kounemba Kounemba EEP 408 158 85.0 Tomboronkoto EEP 403 156 85.0 Tracking the value curve Tanzania Nyabigena South PL 36 14 100.0 Utimbaro PL 16 6 100.0 Kajimbura PL 46 18 100.0 Simba Sirori South PL 51 20 100.0 Igusule PL 44 17 100.0 Nyamakubi PL 43 17 100.0 Kiabakari East PL 62 24 100.0 Mammoth PL 40 15 100.0 Blue Ridge PL 58 22 100.0 Songora PL 95 37 100.0 Busegwe PLR 88 34 100.0 Kigumu PL 131 51 100.0 Nyati PL 82 32 70.0 TOTAL 8 374 3 740 See glossary on pg 84.
12 Randgold Resources Annual Report 2003 permit just south of the Sabodala Mine and drilling will start US$11 million in 2001 to more than US$100 million at there this season.
In Tanzania, we now hold 13 licences present, and over the same period we have paid down and we dominate some 30 km of strike within the Musoma debt from almost US$60 million to under US$10 million.
It greenstone belt, where we have also entered into a joint is worth noting that this has been achieved primarily venture on the Nyati prospect.
Targets in this area are through the generation of profits from our operations, and currently being defined.
not by tapping the market with rights issues.
We have a prefeasibility project at Tongon in the Cte This exceptional performance is attributable to a team dIvoire, which we shall be advancing as soon as the which continues to grow in stature and maturity.
Our political situation in that country has been stabilised fully.
exploration and operational expertise is well established We are also looking at new opportunities in Burkina Faso and in recent times has come to be matched by our skill in and Ghana.
handling even the most complex corporate issues.
Over the past year, we have also demonstrated our ability to Strengthening our capital markets profile hold our own in the rough and tumble world of mergers At the corporate level it was also a very busy year for and acquisitions.
We continued to place a strong emphasis on timely, transparent and comprehensive The senior members of this team have worked together communication with the market, and our quarterly results since the inception of the Company but our policy of presentations were supplemented by two major developing and empowering regional managements in the roadshows, numerous investor meetings worldwide and countries where we operate has ensured that our culture of active participation in all the industry forums.
commitment, competence and competitiveness permeates the entire organisation.
This, I believe, will be Our distinctive market profile has greatly enhanced a major factor in our continued drive to discover investor awareness and understanding of the Company.
Coupled with the growing recognition of our ability to deliver on our promises and to build value, this has led to Ahead a significant re-rating of our shares, facilitated by the In the year ahead, we shall be bringing the invaluable improved tradeability achieved through the Nasdaq listing experience we gained at Morila and Syama to bear on and our increased liquidity.
Loulo, which we plan to build on time and on budget.
We shall also be progressing the feasibility study on Loulos The effectiveness of our commitment to returns was underground potential, which is scheduled for completion demonstrated objectively when Randgold Resources was well before the opencast operation goes into production ranked as the strongest performer in terms of Total next year.
At Morila, we shall be working closely with our Shareholder Returns TSR among the current constituents joint venture partners to ensure that the mine meets its of the FTSE 350 index between 1 January 1999 and projected production and cost targets, and to find 31 December 2003.
TSR measures the theoretical growth additional ounces there.
in the value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested in the equity.
We shall continue to invest substantially in our organic growth through extensive exploration programmes Our admission to the FTSE 250 Index on 22 September designed to generate a steady flow of new prospects.
We 2003 was another significant step forward in our capital shall also be looking carefully at the opportunities being markets strategy.
Inclusion in the index made Randgold created by the ongoing changes in the mining industry.
Resources eligible for investment from tracker funds and Any prospective deals will, of course, be examined against also attracted interest from funds which benchmark the same exacting investment criteria that we apply to themselves against the FTSE indices, while generally internally generated developments.
We shall also maintain strengthening our presence in the London market further.
our focus on nurturing our relationships with present and We are, incidentally, the only pure gold company in the prospective partners in government and industry.
Above all, we shall in the future as in the past remain firmly In December, the FTSE committee increased Randgold committed to our mission, which is to achieve superior Resources investability weighting from 50% to 75% returns on equity through the discovery and exploitation of following an increase in our free float level to 55%.
The high quality, low cost resource opportunities.
new weighting enabled the tracker funds to increase their holdings in the company.
The numbers, and the people behind them The success of any business is evidenced by its results, and our numbers for 2003 speak for themselves.
We posted a net profit of US$47.5 million for the year and we increased our cash by almost the same amount - Mark Bristow US$46 million.
We have grown our cash from Chief Executive Annual Report 2003 Randgold Resources 13
