CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW HOW PASSION POWERS OUR BUSINESS GROWTH rinse agent and salt in their dishwasher.
Then we launched a 3in1 product eliminating the need for three separate products.
With our Finish 3in1 Brilliant, you get the convenience of a 3in1 product with much improved rinse performance for clean, spotless, streak-free, shiny dishes.
Another example is Airwick Nite Light it combines air freshening and a night light in one electrical plug-in device, so you use only one electrical outlet.
How do you come up with all these improved products?
How they think and how they live.
Observing consumer behaviour at home and in-store gives us valuable, actionable insights for Passion seems like an emotive word.
We also spend a lot of What do you mean by that?
time looking for new product ideas by studying What sets us apart is that at Reckitt Benckiser we other industries, talking to our suppliers, all share a real passion to do the right things.
interacting with internal and external product We really want to enhance consumers experience developers, etc.
While I cant give you all the when they use our products.
We want to generate details, as you can imagine, we believe we have shareholder return.
We want Reckitt Benckiser to created a unique new product development be a more socially and environmentally responsible approach.
It provides us with a strong and steady company.
In 2003, we made strong progress on all stream of new and better products to please our three fronts.
consumers and drive our business forward for the years to come.
Can you really be passionate about such things as household cleaners, and why?
And how do you bring these new products We are the number one company in household to consumers?
So, if we are When we have something the consumer really likes, not passionate about it, who in the world would we want to bring it to them fast and in as many be?
What is more important is that we truly believe countries as we believe are appropriate.
As an we can and do improve peoples lives for that short example, Vanish Oxi action was a clear winner.
period of time when they are using household So not only did we launch it in record time, we cleaning and health and personal care products.
used it to launch the Vanish brand in 11 new We really like making peoples lives better.
European countries, where the brand had not existed before.
However, above all, we want to Any examples of how you improve execute our launches excellently.
You know how frustrating it can be when you have What does that mean excellent execution?
spilt wine or coffee and you cant get the stain out.
It means consumers need to be made aware of It seems that the more you try, the more the stain our products and be given the best possible appears to attach itself to the fabric.
Our new chance to try them.
This requires close Vanish Oxi action is a powerful and versatile stain cooperation with our trade partners to ensure that remover that can remove stains like wine and our products are well presented in their stores.
coffee in front of your eyes.
It is a real improvement It also requires engaging advertising to stimulate for consumers and it makes them feel good when people to try our products.
A good example is our they use it.
Then there is Calgonit or Finish 3in1 new global campaign for Veet or our advertising Brilliant.
In Europe, people used to use a powder, for Dettol in emerging markets.
Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW But what is in it for shareholders?
2003 was the fourth consecutive year of consistent net revenue and net income growth.
Net revenues grew 7%, well ahead of the industry, while net income advanced by 20% to 489m.
Net cash flow increased by 13% to 656m.
We are now putting over 30m a month into the bank after dividends and all necessary investment.
So other than new products, what is the strategy to achieve these results?
Our strategy tries to achieve two things.
First, it aims to generate net revenue growth ahead of the industry average.
We do this by focusing on those Reckitt Benckiser brands, which have strong leadership positions in high growth categories our Powerbrands, and by driving them hard with innovation and strong marketing support.
Secondly, we try to leverage this strong growth into even higher profit and cash flow growth through margin expansion and tight financial controls.
So is this passion for better consumer Profit margin expansion we get from our cost products paying off?
cutting efforts and an improving mix resulting from Absolutely!
Consumers have rewarded us with our higher margin new products.
We are quite higher growth for our categories and better market obsessive about cutting waste and if costs are not shares within them.
As a result, our net revenue needed to provide consumers the right product growth is well outpacing the industry and our experience, they go.
We are equally focused on product portfolio is in much better shape than turning profits into cash, as evidenced by our three years ago.
We now have over 50% coming strong and improving net working capital position.
from our 15 global Powerbrands, up from 40%, three years ago.
The percentage of net revenues that Considering your strong cash position, why we get from brands, which are either number one or are you not returning more of it to two in their categories, is also drastically up.
Last year Reckitt Benckiser announced a programme by which it would return cash to shareholders, while maintaining the strategic flexibility to do acquisitions.
We have created a It announced that the moment it reached a dividend cover of around 2.5 times, it would start to follow a more progressive dividend policy.
The company reached the 2.5 cover in 2003.
It also unique new product announced it would start buying back shares up to 250m per annum.
It started this programme at the end of 2003. development approach Can you tell us what it is like to work at Reckitt Benckiser?
We want to make Reckitt Benckiser a great company to work for and be part of.
Weve deliberately created a unique culture here, by steady stream of new recruiting carefully, by embedding our values deeply and by living the values each and every day.
Our values are about achieving our stretching goals, and better products.
about taking personal ownership, about harnessing our talent into effective teams and about encouraging intelligent risk taking.
4 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We can and do improve peoples lives for that short period of time that they use our products And passion is central to your culture?
Our passion sets us apart.
This doesnt mean were all workaholics were not.
It means 18.3 18 3,750 were genuinely fascinated by our business, in 3,713 16.7 depth and in detail.
Thats why our people go 16 the extra mile to solve consumer issues, to develop 15.6 3,500 exciting new products, to squeeze out non-productive 3,454 14 costs and to improve returns.
Our people truly have 3,365 a passion to perform.
And since we empower our 3,250 12 people and give them the freedom to succeed, they know that with good performance well make interesting careers for them.
Thats why people 3,000 10 01 02 03 01 02 03 come to work here and why they stay.
OPERATING MARGINS % NET REVENUES m# What about social responsibility, since there is more to life than just work?
Were increasingly bringing our 656 passion to bear on our wider responsibility to 600 600 society.
We want to use our success to improve 582 our impact on the environment and to care for 500 500 those who may not be able to enjoy our products 489 by supporting the disadvantaged in society, 400 400 416 especially families and children.
408 332 We believe were lucky to have the opportunity to 300 300 put back some of the wealth we create to help those less fortunate than ourselves.
200 200 01 02 03 01 02 03 Assuming you carry on creating wealth, of NET INCOME m NET CASH FLOW FROM profit after tax ORDINARY OPERATIONS m course.
Every high-performance organisation # Restated following the adoption of FRS 5 Application Note G needs to ensure it can sustain or improve its Revenue Recognition.
To do this it needs to have the most effective and efficient structure.
Thats why weve put of this business.
Our aim is to leave Reckitt together Eastern and Western Europe into a single Benckiser in a much stronger condition that we Europe Area and why weve put all the developing found it, and to ensure that all of us management, market regions of Asia, Africa, Middle East and Latin employees, shareholders and society are enriched America into a new Developing Markets Area.
As a result we now have three areas with common business characteristics and challenges.
And your passion will help you achieve So youre confident about the future?
Our passion is a major source of competitive We are.
We believe our organic business strategy advantage.
I think it shines through this years has proven its ability to generate sustained growth.
annual report and goes to the heart of what we do.
Our position with strong brands in high growth categories, our management team, our systematic approach and our passionate style gives us every opportunity to develop the company further and deliver on our vision.
We generated another positive return for Bart Becht Chief Executive Officer shareholders in 2003.
Our goal is to continue to repay the trust and confidence of shareholders, who now include a growing number of employees, by delivering consistently improving financial results but with responsibility.
We know that we are guardians Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 5
