CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The year ended 30 June 2003 has been another period of record forward sales as at 30 June 2003 of 304m.
In record achievement for Redrow.
Operating profits have addition, Redrow Commercial has commenced the new increased from 94.1m to 113.7m delivering earnings per financial year with forward transactions exchanged at both share of 46.9p, an increase of 21.8%.
Our balance sheet St. Davids Park and Buckshaw Village.
continues to strengthen with shareholders funds now The increasing recognition by the Government of the exceeding 300m and gearing at 30.9%, a further problems created by the continuing shortage of new homes reduction on last year.
The efficient utilisation of capital is to be welcomed.
The three major Government sponsored has always represented one of the main financial objectives studies covering the barriers to increased housing supply, within the Group and this is reflected in our return on the development of a market for long term fixed rate capital employed which has increased to 31%.
mortgages and the improvement of the efficiency of the During the last twelve months the Group has been industry, all represent key opportunities to influence the carefully positioned in anticipation of a more sustainable housing industry of the future.
The supply constraints housing market.
The strength of our land bank enabled resulting from a restrictive and under-resourced planning Redrow Homes to increase the number of active outlets as regime are well documented.
However, it is important that Paul L Pedley Chief Executive we entered the new calendar year so as to capture the our industry is capable of responding if Government benefit of the important Spring market.
This resulted in initiatives do result in an increase in the supply of land This has been another year of record achievement for Redrow.
8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW with planning.
For this to be achieved, improved construction techniques are required to counter the impact of skilled labour shortages.
During the last twelve months we have undertaken a careful review of both the design of our housing portfolio and our build practices.
This has resulted in the creation of a new housing range which will be launched during 2004.
The new range combines the kerb appeal and the quality of design with which the Group has become synonymous, with improved construction methods, in particular increased off-site prefabrication.
In addition, the new range has been designed to deliver the added benefits of light steel-frame construction which will flow as production is increased at our joint venture company, Framing Solutions.
Far left St. Katherines Park, Ham Green, Bristol Left Schooners Creek, Colchester Above Parc Pen-y-Fal, Abergavenny Right Bramley Green, Angmering CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 9 REDROW HOMES Redrow Homes has again reported record results, with In recognition of the potential uncertainty and changing Cost pressures within the industry have continued during turnover increasing by 9.7% to 596.0m and operating conditions within the market, a significant number of new the financial year.
Whilst the Groups proactive policy of profit by 17.0% to 111.5m.
These results were secured development launches were scheduled for early 2003 to establishing key relationships with suppliers has resulted in from 4,031 2002: 3,908 legal completions with an capture the benefit of the important Spring market.
material price increases being controlled generally in line average selling price of 147,900 2002: 139,000.
The One of the most successful launches was at Altolusso, with inflation, the continuing shortage of skilled labour has legal completion profile was broadly in balance between the Divisions In the City development in Cardiff, where, resulted in labour cost increases of up to 10%.
In the long the first and second halves with 1,970 48.9% and 2,061 over the initial launch period, 155 reservations were term, these cost pressures can only be alleviated by both 51.1% legal completions respectively.
secured with a sales value of 25m.
As a result of this increasing the overall attractiveness of our industry to new overall strategy, reservations in the six months to entrants, so increasing the total work force, and by During the last twelve months there have been significant 30 June 2003 were 9.1% ahead of the very strong embracing new construction techniques.
variations in our various regional markets.
Within the corresponding period in 2002.
For the financial year as a Southern Region, the market has generally undergone a Operating margins within Redrow Homes have continued whole, reservations were 4,567 as compared with 4,168 in period of stabilisation whilst in both the Western and to increase, recording levels of 18.4% and 19.0% in the the previous year, an increase of 9.6%.
This improvement Northern Regions the positive ripple emanating from an first and second halves respectively.
The overall annual enabled the Division to end the year with a record forward historically strong Southern market has been experienced.
operating margin of 18.7% compares with 17.6% last year.
sales position of 2,062 units with a sales value of 304m, The conflict in Iraq resulted in a temporary period of This improvement is in part due to the strength representing increases of 35.1% and 39.4% respectively on uncertainty whilst late Spring and early Summer witnessed last year.
an overall return to a more sustainable housing market throughout the country.
10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW of the sales market during calendar year 2002, but equally reflects the quality of the Divisions land bank and the active management of our cost base.
The identification by the Government of key growth areas at Milton Keynes, Stansted, the East Thames Corridor and Ashford, to satisfy the increased demand for new homes in the South East, is of strategic importance.
To enable the Division to maximise the potential from these growth areas, a new company, Redrow Homes South Midlands, has been formed to focus on the area Far left Crown Gardens, Glasgow Left Priory Green, Little Dunmow, Essex Above St. Edwards Park, Leek, Staffordshire Right A computer generated image of Altolusso, Cardiff CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 11 known as the Milton Keynes triangle.
As a result, the commissioning of the new roll-forming machinery together geographical coverage of Redrow Homes Southern, with the related design and control programmes has been Redrow Homes Eastern and Redrow Homes South East successfully completed.
This is a major achievement, has been reviewed to enhance the efficiency and greatly increasing the efficiency of the design and effectiveness of these companies.
The decision has been production process, representing a significant step towards taken to relocate the first to Basingstoke in Hampshire and enhancing the production capability over the next few to merge the other two, with the relocation of the merged years to approximately 4,000 units per annum.
To date, business to Laindon, near Basildon in Essex.
light steel-frames have been incorporated successfully into four Redrow developments with further sites scheduled to Framing Solutions, our light steel-frame joint venture come on stream prior to the end of the calendar year.
company with Corus plc, continues to progress.
The 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW REGIONAL PERFORMANCE The Northern Region delivered 1,982 legal completions as compared with 1,888 in the previous year, an increase of 5.0%, representing 49.2% of the Divisions completions.
These results reflect the acquisition of Tay Homes in January 2002 with the resultant expansion of our activities in both Scotland and Yorkshire.
The average selling price increased by 8.2% to 128,500 to yield an overall increase in turnover of 13.6%.
The Southern Region achieved 1,091 legal completions, broadly in line with the previous year, representing 27.1% of the total completions of Redrow Homes.
The average selling price increased by 9.1% to 186,400 to give an overall increase in turnover of 6.5%.
The expansion of the Western Region continues with legal completions increasing by 6.2% to 958 units.
The average selling price was marginally higher at 144,000 with turnover increasing by 8.1% to 138.0m.
Far left Brockham Park, Surrey Centre Erection of a steel-frame system at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale Left Homes at Parc Victoria, Ebbw Vale, constructed with the new steel-frame system Right The Boulevards, Harrogate Far right Rumford Grange, Falkirk CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 13 THE REDROW PORTFOLIO Over the last ten years the development of the Heritage, To complement Heritage and Harwood, several In the secured 348 forward sales for legal completion in the year Harwood and In the City brands has been of major City developments have been and are being undertaken.
ending 30 June 2005. importance in the expansion of Redrow Homes.
During The number of such schemes is carefully controlled due to Whilst the Heritage and Harwood ranges have been that period the number of legal completions has almost the significant management time involved in each scheme highly successful, the changing requirements of Planning doubled, from 2,038 in 1994 to 4,031 in 2003. and, from a financial viewpoint, their capital intensive Policy Guidance, in particular PPG3, have resulted in The Heritage range, which, in the financial year had nature.
During the year, In the City schemes contributed an increasing percentage of bespoke concept schemes an average selling price of 166,100, still represents the 7.8% to the Divisions legal completions, with an average marketed under the Heritage and Harwood banners.
cornerstone of the portfolio, accounting for 63.2% of legal selling price of 174,900.
Of particular significance was the The increase in such schemes has resulted in a greater completions.
As anticipated last year, the last twelve highly successful scheme at Whitworthwest in Manchester absorption of management time in their design and a months have witnessed a significant expansion in the which secured the award for Best City Centre Residential dilution of the benefits that flow from the construction utilisation of the Harwood range.
This is primarily due to Development from the Association of Town Centre of a more standardised housing range.
the fact that on the acquisition of Tay Homes in January Management in conjunction with the NHBC.
2002, the majority of that companys developments in In response to these changes, a new highly flexible range Ongoing In the City schemes include Odyssey in London, Yorkshire and Scotland were more suited to the Harwood of generic house styles has been designed.
This new range Altolusso in Cardiff, Jupiter in Birmingham, Velocity in specification.
In addition, increased usage has been made combines the quality of design that has characterised the Leeds and Neptune Marina in Ipswich.
To balance the of the Harwood range in both South West and South Heritage and Harwood ranges with the re-introduction higher capital investment associated with In the City Wales.
As a result, Harwood represented 29.0% of the of greater standardisation within the construction process schemes it is important to maintain a strong forward sales Divisions legal completions in the current financial year whilst maintaining the flexibility in elevational treatments position.
It is therefore pleasing to report that by the and had an average selling price marginally in excess of to match the local vernacular.
With three different financial year end the above developments have already 100,000.
14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW specification levels in the new housing range, the benefits derived from a diverse product portfolio will be maintained, but complemented by the efficiencies of greater standardisation, both from a build and financial viewpoint.
This new range has equally been designed to respect the requirements of PPG3 and to enhance the utilisation of off-site prefabrication.
Furthermore, whilst designed initially to be predominantly built traditionally, the requirements of light steel-frame construction have been fully recognised so as to provide further benefits as production from Framing Solutions is increased.
Finally, from a marketing perspective, the new range, irrespective of specification, will be marketed under the single Redrow brand to provide greater synergy with the Divisions national marketing programme, and in particular, the highly successful campaign on digital television.
Above Eton Court, Pengam Green, Cardiff Right Saxon Place, Northampton CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 15 DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE Land remains the key to the Groups future profitability.
Current Land Bank During the last twelve months, the current land bank has increased from 15,600 plots to 16,000 plots, representing, 16,000 17,500 15,600 on an historic basis, a four year land supply.
The balance is held under 3,300 12,500 3,300 contract awaiting, in the vast majority of cases, the grant of a satisfactory planning consent.
10,000 It is, however, the effectiveness of this land bank that is of 7,500 paramount importance.
The Homes Division owns with 9,000 10,200 11,300 13,400 14,000 planning all the land required to deliver the budgeted 5,000 completions for the new financial year.
Further, 85% of the During the last twelve months, forecast legal completions for the year ending 30 June 2005 2,500 are on land owned with planning and indeed all are on the current land bank has 0 land controlled by the Division.
This places Redrow increased to 16,000 plots.
Homes in an extremely strong position for the future.
1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 During 2003, Redrow Homes acquired approximately 4,630 plots for a total consideration of 126.9m representing an average plot cost of 27,400.
At the financial year end, the Land under contract average plot cost has increased from 21,200 to 22,900, which, when expressed as a percentage of annual historic Land owned with planning consent sales price, represents a marginal increase from 15.3% last year to 15.5% for the current year.
16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW FUTURE With the increasing concentration on brownfield development, the historic distinction between current and forward land has been eroded, with our planning teams now equally involved in securing planning consent on both categories of land.
Nevertheless, forward land remains a major contributor to the land acquired each year and during the last twelve months some 30% of the land acquired was secured through this route.
Further, at the financial year end, the forward land bank totalled approximately 23,750 plots.
Of particular significance is the number of plots allocated in either draft or adopted local plans.
Despite the contribution to the current land bank during the year, these allocations have been maintained at over 8,000 plots, representing over one-third of the forward land bank, clearly demonstrating its planning pedigree.
Far left Whatton Grange, Long Whatton, Leicestershire Above Woodvale Place, Southport Right The Circus, Gras Lawn, Exeter CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW 17 REDROW COMMERCIAL The recent relocation of Redrow Commercial to new companys results.
At Western Approach, Bristol, the office premises within the Groups mixed use scheme at 51,000 sq.
ft. distribution warehouse pre-let to MacFarlane Whitworthwest, Manchester represents the culmination of Group U. K. Ltd has been successfully sold and marketing a very successful year.
Operating profits of 3.0m were at a continues on the second unit, also of 51,000 sq.
ft. similar level to last year, with contributions being secured constructed in parallel.
Lastly, the investment sale of the from each of the companys major developments.
ground floor retail space at Whitworthwest in Manchester, pre-let to Sainsburys Supermarkets Ltd, has been At St. Davids Park, Optima, the 27,000 sq.
development to which I referred last year, was sold to moneysupermarket.
At Buckshaw Village, the The company has commenced the new financial year with 80,000 sq.
ft. of industrial units built speculatively has forward transactions secured at both St. Davids Park and generated significant interest with the sale of a Buckshaw Village.
At the former, contracts were 20,000 sq.
ft. unit prior to the year end and the disposal of exchanged prior to the year end for the sale of Evolution, The focus is on the identification a further 14,000 sq.
ft. unit subsequent to the year end.
In nursery office units totalling approximately 15,000 sq.
ft.. addition, on both developments the sale of undeveloped Following build completion in mid July, the sale has been and development of mixed use parcels of land has been achieved so further improving the successfully completed.
schemes so adding value on a Group-wide basis.
18 CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW At Buckshaw Village, contracts have been exchanged, subject to planning, for the sale to Aldi Stores Ltd of a 31 acre parcel of land for the development of a 650,000 sq.
This transaction, together with those previously referred to, establishes Buckshaw Village as a major mixed use development within the North West.
Over the last two years, the focus within Redrow Commercial has been on the identification and development of mixed use schemes so adding value on a Group-wide basis.
Twelve months ago the structure of the management team was reviewed and brought in line with that of the Homes Division.
The results for the year, together with the foundations laid for the future, are a solid endorsement of these policies.
Last year, I referred to the extensive project management skills within Redrow Commercial which have been harnessed to provide the appropriate controls on all In the City schemes undertaken throughout the Group.
To recognise the significant Group-wide contribution made by this project management team, the decision has been taken to relocate the team to St. Davids Park, so facilitating greater integration in all relevant aspects of the Groups business.
Far left Redrow Commercial Office, Whitworthwest, Manchester city centre Centre Optima, 27,000 sq.
ft. office development, St Davids Park, Flintshire Left Western Approach, Severnside, Bristol Right Whitworthwest apartments and retail scheme, Manchester city centre CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW 19 THE REDROW TEAM OUR TRAINING INITIATIVE One of the core strengths of the Group remains the constructed next to the offices of Redrow Homes Redrow Team.
Our continuing growth, combined with Midlands at Tamworth.
The centre had a capital cost of the increasing complexity of our industry, means that approximately 500,000 and is staffed by professional Redrow must be recognised as an employer of choice trainers recruited from both within and outside the Group so as to be able to both retain our existing staff and attract to provide the appropriate balance of skills.
Furthermore, future employees of the highest calibre.
It is however existing team members may be seconded to provide equally important that these new employees receive the specialist courses, particularly in more technical disciplines appropriate induction, which not only encompasses our and in the important area of health and safety.
The centre policies and procedures, but also our culture, so that all is fully integrated into the Group-wide computer systems new staff can feel part of the Redrow Team and contribute to provide a real life environment for learning purposes.
fully at the earliest opportunity.
In addition to recognising On an annual basis, some 400 courses will be provided at a the need for a structured induction process, there is an cost of approximately 400,000. ongoing requirement for training across many disciplines This initiative clearly demonstrates Redrows commitment throughout the Group.
to its employees and its desire to be the employer of During the last financial year, a detailed review was choice within our industry.
undertaken as to how these objectives could best be achieved.
The conclusion of the review was the formation of The Redrow Training Centre.
This facility is now housed within a purpose built 4,000 sq.
ft. building, Above The Redrow Training Centre, Tamworth Centre Interior of the Training Centre Right Redrow plc Headquarters, St. Davids Park, Flintshire 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW OUTLOOK Redrow has entered the new financial year having delivered record results and secured an excellent platform for future growth.
The Homes Division, through careful planning and the launch of several new developments, has secured a record forward sales position.
The Divisions land bank has been further strengthened and provides an effective and solid base for the future.
The review of the housing portfolio will ensure that the qualities of the existing ranges are combined with the requirements for enhanced construction methods, so supporting our future financial returns.
Redrow Commercial has established a sound development programme, adding significant value through its focus on mixed use schemes.
Accordingly, barring the impact of factors totally outside the control of the Group, Redrow can look forward with confidence to maintaining its record of delivering long term sustainable growth and by so doing deliver value to our shareholders.
Paul L Pedley Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW 21
