Chief Executives review RMC is moving forward.
Our priority now is to deliver the performance targets we have set.
I am pleased to have joined RMC at what is an important stage The Groups performance in the year under review is detailed in the Groups recovery.
In recent years the Group has faced a on page 12 and in the segmental analysis beginning on page 14. number of well documented difficulties which have adversely In summary, we continued to benefit from the firming of trading impacted its financial performance.
The Group has responded by conditions in the USA and the improved performance of the starting a process of restructuring and refocusing the business cement division in Great Britain, where the Rugby cement plant on fewer products and markets and this work continues.
delivered consistently improved levels of production.
Trading in a number of other countries, notably Australia, Croatia, the Czech The Chairman has described, in some detail, the short-term measures Republic, the Gulf States and Spain remained strong.
As a result, we are pursuing to meet our commitment to improve medium-term the underlying performance of the Group, with the exception of performance.
I am encouraged by the recovery of the business during Germany where a significant loss was incurred, was substantially 2003 which, if Germany is excluded, has exceeded expectations and ahead of 2002.
I shall return later to our plans for restoring the strengthened our position, continuing the process of establishing a German business to profitability.
08 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 BMW opts for Readymix Czech profits up Our subsidiary Readymix Baustoffgruppe Improved concrete sales and margins is supplying self-compacting concrete contributed to higher profits in the for the construction of BMWs factory Czech Republic, where Transportbeton in Leipzig.
Morava supplied ready mixed concrete for this multi-span motorway bridge crossing the River Odra.
Implementation of the programme to rationalise the Groups revenue.
In response to prevailing and anticipated market conditions, business portfolio contributed to the reduction in net debt to below we are implementing plans to reduce both cement and concrete 1 billion by the end of 2003, a commitment given to shareholders output.
As the capacity overhang in the industry reduces, we by the Board.
This rationalisation programme resulted in a number of expect price recovery to become sustainable.
The restructuring disposals during 2003 including the sale of the assets of Hales Waste plans also include a number of projects that will reduce general Control and RMC Environmental Services in Great Britain, Rugby IPD administration and sales costs.
These projects form part of the and Metromont Prestress Company in the USA and the Groups Groups overall cost reduction programme in which we are taking businesses in Belgium, Jordan and India.
In December 2003, the Group major rationalisation measures to cut administration costs in our sold 19.9% of the ordinary share capital of its Australian subsidiary, main countries of operation.
Adelaide Brighton, to Boral Ltd, which then launched a bid for the whole of this company.
Subsequently, the Group sold a further Over the years, RMC has established a sound and unique reputation tranche of shares and at the time of writing we hold a 14.9% stake for product quality and service in most of the major concrete markets in Adelaide Brighton, pending the outcome of the Boral bid.
It has an impressive cadre of dedicated, professional people and a geographical spread of capabilities and During the year, the German Federal Cartel Office imposed fines assets that provides a sound basis for consolidation and growth.
totalling661 million approximately 450 million on six companies That said, the difficulties encountered by the Group in recent years involved in an investigation into anti-competitive practices in the have had an adverse effect on its financial health and performance.
They included our German subsidiary, We are now in the early stages of recovery with a great deal still to Readymix AG, which, following our full co-operation with the be done.
Our priority in the short term is to focus our efforts and investigation, was fined12 million some 8 million.
We have resources on achieving the performance targets we have set.
This a policy in place regarding compliance with competition laws and will create the base from which we will grow and add value to the the management will continue to take the necessary measures to business in the future.
The cost reduction programme announced in September 2003, following a detailed review of the administrative costs of our main businesses, is the beginning of a process to enhance RMCs competitiveness.
We are now implementing the changes required to achieve our savings target of at least 50 million during 2005.
In Great Britain, the business has been restructured to improve operational efficiency.
A new company, RMC Materials, has been David Munro Group Chief Executive established in which 21 ready mixed concrete and aggregates companies have been integrated into five regional entities.
The cement division remains a separate unit.
This is a major organisational change which will better equip the company to compete.
Inevitably however, there will be some disruption as we fine tune the new organisation and this may impact results in the early part of the year.
Progress on the restructuring of our German business was delayed while we responded to the unsolicited approach from HeidelbergCement, to which the Chairman has already referred.
After confirming our decision to retain the business, we continued with the restructuring programme, which is designed to return the business to profitability by addressing both the key issues of costs and RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 09
