8 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Review During the past year we have clearly positioned SABMiller The board has proposed a final dividend of as a leader in the global beer market.
The acquisition of 18.5 US cents per share, making an unchanged total Miller Brewing Company and, more recently, transactions of 25.0 US cents per share for the year.
The dividend with Birra Peroni and Shaw Wallace demonstrate the is covered 2.2 times by adjusted earnings and is in line considerable financial strength of the group as it with our declared aim of achieving dividend cover of continues to expand.
We have achieved organic sales 2.2 to 2.5 times.
Shareholders will be asked to ratify growth and productivity improvements across many of this proposal at the annual general meeting, scheduled our markets, and added to our established positions for 30 July 2003. with a number of smaller acquisitions in Europe and Africa & Asia.
North America Total group beverage volumes of 151.4 million We acquired Miller Brewing Company in July 2002. hectolitres hls were 52% above last years 99.4 million In the nine month reporting period, after adjusting for hls organic growth 3%.
Lager volumes were up 65% a distributor stock reduction programme implemented to 115.8 million hls, with organic growth of 4.2%.
Beer in March, total Miller volume was down 3.7% with South Africa recorded a second consecutive year of domestic volume falling by 4.5% 6.2% before growth, with volumes up 0.8% to 24.4 million hls.
Contract brewing volumes grew 3.6% Other beverages totalled 35.6 million hls.
and international volumes grew by 6.6%.
Our widespread portfolio of businesses delivered an EBITA for the nine month period was US$250 million, impressive financial performance over the year.
Turnover, before exceptional items, reecting volume decline, including share of associates, more than doubled to as well as the negative impact of brand, pack and US$9,112 million organic growth 17.8%.
EBITA grew geographic mix, increased cost of raw materials and 66% to US$1,270 million, driven by continued focus on greater energy costs, offset partly by higher selling prices.
volume growth, productivity and cost containment.
EBITA for the period was determined after providing for a EBITA margins have continued to improve in most of number of significant one-time charges associated with our businesses, reaching 18.1% for the group excluding the Flavoured Malt Beverage FMB brands, Sauza Diablo Miller.
The lower EBITA margin at Miller has diluted the and Stolichnaya Citrona, and the reduction of four and groups margin in comparison with the prior year.
one-half days of inventory held in distributor warehouses.
Adjusted earnings were up by 66%, to US$581 million, Since acquiring the business we have commenced with adjusted earnings per share of 54.0 US cents, up the integration of Miller into the group and strengthened 11% on the prior year.
the management team, whilst developing our longer term strategy and action plans to deliver value.
We expand on these issues in the Review of Operations, on pages 22 to 29.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 9 Our widespread portfolio of businesses delivered an impressive financial performance over the year.
Adjusted earnings were up 66%, to US$581 million, with adjusted earnings per share of 54 US cents, up 11% on the prior year.
Graham Mackay Chief executive Central America Africa & Asia Our Central America business delivered a first full year Africa & Asia performed exceptionally well, with EBITA EBITA contribution of US$56 million, before exceptional up 36% to US$233 million.
Africa benefited from strong items, which was below our expectations.
This was volume growth in key markets, market share gains and largely due to aggressive, and in our view unsustainable, the results of successful acquisition activity.
Our equity price-based competition in the carbonated soft drinks accounted associate, Castel, also delivered strong results.
CSD market in El Salvador.
Since acquisition we have In China, the Wuhan and Blue Sword acquisitions have undertaken a major restructuring of the business, been successfully integrated and EBITA has more than reducing costs and rationalising headcount and have doubled.
In India we achieved our target of break-even brought in management with extensive CSD experience.
at the operating profit level in our first full year We are confident that the CSD profit pool in El Salvador incorporating four operating units.
will be re-established over time and that the changes On 21 May 2003 we announced that SABMillers we have made in the business, combined with positive subsidiary, Mysore Breweries, had become a strong forecasts for economic growth, will deliver improved number two brewer in India through a joint venture with earnings performance in the year ahead.
the Shaw Wallace group of companies.
This positions us well in the high growth Indian beer market.
Europe Our Europe operations delivered another excellent year South Africa of profit growth.
EBITA was up 39% to US$275 million Beer South Africa EBITA grew by 18% to US$338 million, with almost every country improving volumes, market with volumes up 0.8%.
Operating performance in this share and margins.
Poland, our largest contributing business is at an all time high, with operating margin business, grew EBITA strongly on the back of 9% volume up 80 basis points.
Improved productivity was offset growth.
Volumes in our Russian business grew 27% by significant increases in raw material prices, higher following the introduction of new brands and packaging.
marketing spend on new product development and The Pilsner Urquell brand grew volumes by 12% in the introductions into the marketplace.
Czech Republic, and volumes outside the country ABI succeeded in delivering good results through increased by 17% to 653,000 hls.
volume growth and overhead productivity gains, and EBITA On 14 May 2003, the group announced it had increased by 24%.
reached an unconditional agreement to acquire a majority Southern Sun achieved strong earnings growth this interest in Birra Peroni, the number two brewer in Italy, year with positive operational contributions coming from with rights to increase the holding in the future.
The both the hotel and gaming divisions.
transaction was completed on 4 June 2003 and SABMiller has an initial stake of 60%.
The acquisition was funded in cash, from existing resources.
10 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Chief Executives Review continued Group strategy other consumer sectors.
Companies with a global footprint Our strategy to grow shareholder value remains focused will benefit from the economies of scale that consolidation upon four key elements.
will bring and will, we believe, deliver greater shareholder The first is to drive volume and productivity.
We were value in the medium to longer term.
pleased that last year we saw volume growth in our South Growing our brands in the international premium beer African beer business, which once again delivered segment is the fourth, and so far, the least developed operating margin improvement.
In Europe, our businesses element of the strategy.
Our portfolio of premium brands in virtually all of the seven countries in which we operate now contains Pilsner Urquell, Miller Genuine Draft, Peroni have grown volumes by more than the market increase and and Castle.
We believe that there are real opportunities to have achieved year-on-year market share gains.
In Africa, increase sales in this growing segment through leveraging we continue to see excellent volume and market share our distribution platforms around the world.
By pursuing this strategy we have built a business The second element of the strategy is to optimise and that delivered adjusted earnings per share growth of expand our existing positions through acquisitions.
We 11% for the financial year ended March 2003.
But we continue to seek opportunities to achieve growth within cannot be complacent.
We will continue to focus individual countries or geographic regions, where we can relentlessly upon operational efficiency and work build strong positions, leverage synergies and achieve hard on strengthening our regional brands and economies of scale.
The acquisition by our Polish market positions, pursuing acquisitive growth only subsidiary Kompania Piwowarska, of the Browar Dojlidy where we can see the potential to add real value brewery, announced during the year, is a good example of for shareholders.
The third area of our strategy is to seek value-adding Focusing on marketing opportunities to enhance our position as a global brewer.
SABMiller has portfolios of strong national and regional We continue to believe that economic development, brands principally based on the mainstream segments converging customer taste and lowering of trade barriers of the market.
Our challenge is to support these regional will drive further consolidation of the beer market.
Currently, brands to ensure that we retain or, in the case of Miller the four leading brewers account for around only 33% of restore, their brand health.
We are also looking to build the global market compared to between 50% and 80% for our positions in the premium or worth more segments SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 11 that are driving what volume growth there is in developed Outlook markets.
Crucial to this is our international brand portfolio The global economic and socio-political outlook remains described earlier.
However, SABMiller is a business which has To strengthen marketing focus and co-ordinate the geographic reach and balance, a quality brand portfolio, drive behind our international premium brands, we have a widespread distribution network and financial strength.
created a new role of group marketing director.
It remains well placed to continue to deliver value In addition, we are focusing on innovation and have for shareholders.
had some notable successes in South Africa with Brutal We have commenced our restructuring of the Miller Fruit and Sterling Light see case study on pages 16 and organisation, but major benets will only be evident over 17, and with Redds in Poland and East Africa.
There are some positive signs in Central America, although competitive pressures remain.
Our other The difference is clear businesses have all performed extremely well, and it The people of SABMiller are what makes us different.
is expected that this momentum will continue into the We have many talented, creative and driven individuals current year.
who are dedicated to the business.
We have recently created a new role of group human resources director to ensure that we maximise the potential of our existing team, inculcate our performance culture across the group and widen our pool of talent, while continuing to recruit individuals of the highest calibre.
I recognise that our growth has been rapid and this has placed huge demands on our employees.
I thank each and every one of them for their hard work and commitment.
There are still many challenges and milestones ahead of us and I am sure that we will continue to meet and exceed these, as we have done so well in Graham Mackay the past.
Chief executive Opened in 1991, the Trenton Brewery There is no secret hard work and is the largest of Millers brewing facilities in the US.
With a staggering a passion for brewing have made 1.4 million square feet or 32.5 acres under cover, the scale of operations Trenton the success story it is today.
Today the facility brews and packages nearly every Larry Pope, Trenton brewing manager, Miller Brewing Company brand in the Miller portfolio, shipping bottles, cans and kegs to over 100 Miller distributors across ten states.
SABMiller SABMiller plc plc Annual Annual Report 2003 Report 2003 13 13 Hectolitres per labour hour at Trenton 10 9 8 7 6 2000 2001 2002 Calendar years A agship for brewing excellence in the USA Challenge From day one, when the Trenton brewery first went into production producing the equivalent of ten million bottles, cans and kegs of beer a day, the overriding challenge has been clear to further increase capacity and performance without ever compromising quality.
Action Hard work and a willingness to embrace new ideas from more exible working practices to new technology have helped to create a culture of excellence at Trenton.
Working together, senior management, team managers, and technicians have increased capacity consistently over time.
Today, the plant regularly handles up to 21 separate brews a day and runs nine active lines, capable of processing up to 1,200 bottles and 2,000 cans a minute and 600 half-barrel kegs an hour.
Trenton is a benchmark for environmental performance too.
Very little at the plant can be dened as waste.
Spent grain is sold as cattle feed, CO and other by-products are reclaimed: everything from glass and 2 aluminium to plastic strapping and paper is recycled.
Outcome The broad facts about Trenton speak volumes: a workforce of 620 people many of whom have been with Miller for over ten years: steady increases in capacity since 1991: and most importantly, Millers brands and contract brands brewed to the highest quality, packaged and processed with absolute efficiency.
14 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 World top five countries consumption per capita 2001 litres per capita 180 150 120 90 60 30 0 Czech Eire Germany Austria Denmark Republic Canadean data Building brand strength in the Czech Republic Challenge v When SABMiller acquired Plzensky Prazdroj and Radegast in 1999, popular opinion had it that the Czech market was past its prime.
Despite the acquisition of four top brands in Pilsner Urquell, Gambrinus, Radegast, and Kozel with national distribution, a 44% market share and annual sales of 7.8 million hectolitres the pressure was on the SABMiller team to deliver growth.
Action Restructuring and retraining of the existing organisation helped to build a customer service and brand orientation.
Introducing professional marketing, project management, logistics planning, and cost control best practice models from across the SABMiller network created a leaner and more efficient operation.
With a strong foundation in place, the brand portfolio was streamlined and a well-dened pricing hierarchy introduced.
Activity has centred both on long-term building as well as short-term delivery with ongoing investment in brand support and development, from packaging and signage to merchandising and distribution eet liveries.
In short, this newly merged SABMiller business was retted from the ground up introducing the benets of the SABMiller way without losing touch with the needs of consumers and customers, and maximising local knowledge and talent in the process.
Outcome The team set out to deliver revenue growth of 3% per annum in a market that had seen a ten-year decline in real prices.
In fact, they beat their own target, achieving 3.2% in the first year, despite a 1% fall in beer industry volumes.
Total market share has also grown steadily from 44% to 48% with an improved brand sales mix resulting in an increased share of the more profitable premium sector.
Its a strong start, and looking forward the team is confident that they can deliver even better results.
The Czech Republic is a mature market, We have delivered strong growth and which SABMiller entered in 1999, when it acquired a controlling interest in v built a platform for future success.
Plzensky Prazdroj and Radegast, the v countrys two leading brewers.
The Petra Biskupova, group brand manager, Plzensky Prazdroj country has a population of 10.28 million and records the worlds highest per capita beer consumption of around 159 litres.
Consumer tastes in South Africa Market knowledge and consumer are shifting continuously.
Innovative thinking and rapid response is insight are the starting points for our essential to keep pace with market demands.
To make innovation integral new product development.
to our business, SAB Ltd has created cross-functional project teams, Steve Miller, market development manager, The South African Breweries Ltd bringing marketing, technical and financial specialists together.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 17 New products in 2001 02 Redds Premium Dry dry version of Redds New products in 2002 03 Sterling Light Lager light beer Brutal Fruit x 3 avours pure fruit juice FAB Copper Crest bottled sorghum beer Eagle sorghum clear beer New products in 2003 04 Rhino Malta non-alcoholic nutritional food-drink in test marketing FAB avoured alcoholic beverage Delivering innovation and growth in South Africa Challenge It is not enough simply to understand consumer markets this understanding must be put to good effect.
Every consumer insight has the potential to re a new, successful product development or service innovation delivering great brands for consumers and growth for SABMiller.
Action To maximise every growth opportunity, SABMiller has put in place the innovations process a new way of working based on the creation of cross-functional teams, each one comprising marketing, technical and financial specialists.
The teams work in a consistent way: market research delivers knowledge and insights: these are assessed through a decision-gate funnel: then developed into strong propositions each with the capacity to deliver tangible success for the business.
The innovations process has delivered several notable successes in southern Africa during 2002 03: the successful launch of two new sorghum clear beers Eagle in Uganda and Copper Crest for other African countries: the introduction of Brutal Fruit, a new FAB, targeted at a young, energetic South African population already delivering impressive growth.
There have been other wins.
Sterling Light, a new lower alcohol brand, meeting the needs of a more healthconscious young male population: whilst also reecting changes in attitudes to drinking and new alcohol-related road legislation: and Rhino-malt, a non-alcoholic liquid food aimed at 16-35 year old males from low income groups, achieving promising results during market testing.
The innovations process is not only focused on product launch.
2002 has seen several new packaging initiatives, including the introduction of Hansa Draught and the planned introduction of the first 500ml can and 660ml slimline reusable bottle for Castle Lite later in 2003.
Outcome New brands, new packaging ideas a year of consistent growth shows that cross-functional innovation is not only here to stay, but also arguably our business success of the year.
The new way of working has transformed the way SAB Ltd approaches the market and energised the working experience for staff.
18 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Market size by volume hls m 250 200 150 100 50 0 China USA Germany Brazil Russia Canadean provisional gures 2002 Rebuilding performance in a key Chinese market Challenge When CRB, SABMillers joint venture in China, acquired the Wuhan Eurodongxihu brewery in 2002, performance was declining following aggressive price cutting and discounting by competitors and profits for 2001 down on 2000.
For the SABMiller management team the short-term imperative was clear stop the rot!
Create some clarity and refocus the business to provide the foundations for long-term growth.
Action Faced with falling market share and profit margins, a declining brand image for key regional brands such as Xin Yeng Ge and low staff morale, the team responded by putting in place a whole raft of practical improvements.
Outmoded hierarchies were replaced with a at structure, resulting in better co-ordination and communication across the business.
Key operations distribution and sales and marketing amongst them were dramatically overhauled.
A new sales manual was written and new experienced people recruited.
On a broader front, over 2,200 people from a total staff count of 2,400 received specic retraining across areas as diverse as strategy, quality management, cost control and operational efficiency.
Outcome The facts speak for themselves.
profits up 41% on calendar 2001 with xed and variable costs down over the same period.
Brand building investment has also increased by 30%, allowing the development of a clear portfolio and the repackaging of key brands.
Brand awareness and performance of both Xin Yeng Ge and the national brand Snowake greatly improved and, just as importantly, upgrading of brewing production facilities and the introduction of better supervision and process control methods have had a major impact.
Looking forward, Wuhan brewery is in good shape to rebuild both market share and profitability.
With consumption growing at over We have made a strong start.
6% per annum, China is thought to be the biggest beer market in the The brewery is in good shape to become world.
In March 2002, our joint venture, CRB acquired the Wuhan Eurodongxihu an increasingly important value-adding Brewery in Chinas Hubei province, giving it an 80% share of the Wuhan asset for our operations in China.
market and a strong position in the province.
Eric Ye, general manager, Wuhan Eurodongxihu brewery In Botswana, two SABMiller businesses Bold measures have produced dramatic Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd KBL and Botswana Breweries Pty Ltd results.
Kgalagadi operates more efficiently BBL produce a number of clear and traditional beer brands, including and continuous improvement is the Castle Lager, St. Louis, Hansa Pilsener and Chibuku, and Coca-Cola CSDs order of the day.
Boikhutso Mokgosi, quality assurance manager Beer and CSD, Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 21 Botswana volumes by proportion KBL BBL Lager beer 25% Traditional beer 50% CSDs 20% Wines & spirits 5% Improving plant efficiency in Botswana Challenge In February 2002 the Kgalagadi Breweries Pty Ltd KBL management team set itself a tough challenge to rationalise its business into a more efficient and market responsive organisation in less than five months.
The facts were undeniable potential synergies between the Kgalagadi Brewery and Coca-Cola bottling plant were not being realised, with major consequences for management effectiveness, sales and marketing specialisation, staff development, productivity enhancements, planning forecasting and customer service ethics.
Action The KBL team acted swiftly and decisively.
Management structures were redened with the creation of dedicated technical, sales and marketing and operational divisions to manage the total KBL operation.
This achieved two critical improvements: clearly dened responsibilities and considerably less duplication of effort.
The new model allowed specialist managers to play to their strengths, manage and motivate their teams more effectively and most importantly, offer a better service to their internal and external customers.
Outcome The restructuring has delivered tangible improvements in almost every aspect of operations at KBL.
All technical functions are under one umbrella with knowledge sharing and staff rationalisation generating immediate synergies, boosting efficiencies and creating productivity improvements, particularly in the maintenance and material usage arenas.
Operationally, improved sales forecasting, routing and scheduling of delivery trucks achieved productivity, whilst warehouse space utilisation was maximised.
In the sales and marketing functions, the one team approach has made possible the introduction of best operating practices across the board, the simplication of the sales network and the creation of a single trade marketing department.
The end result is simple: a one-point-of-contact service for key customers, joint customer research, sports sponsorship support and streamlined consumer activation programmes.
The overall impact of the restructuring is clear: bold measures have produced dramatic improvements in the efficiency of a major SABMiller operation.
