44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 1 Overview We are pleased to announce results which SMEs have continued to exercise caution in Sage approach to the market 2 Chairmans and Chief show earnings growth of 11%.
During the their spending on information technology.
Our response to these economic and Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers year we have made further progress in As a consequence, we have seen no market trends has been as follows.
18 Financial Review generating more revenue from our customer significant change in spending on software.
21 Directors Report Software base, which now numbers over 3.6 million.
Larger SMEs, who might in a better 24 Corporate Governance Recognising that many of our customers Statement We have also continued our acquisition economic climate replace their solutions, 28 Remuneration Report are seeking to enhance rather than replace strategy, completing three significant are increasingly focussing on extracting 34 Consolidated Profit their existing solutions, our upgrade and Loss Account acquisitions two of them after the financial greater value from their existing solutions.
programmes introduce appropriate new 35 Consolidated year-end, which have opened up new Consequently they have invested in Balance Sheet features and enhancements for all markets and further growth opportunities.
373,000 existing customers 37 Consolidated Cash The market serving smaller SMEs is more Flow Statement Market trends purchased upgrades during the year.
stable, since newly formed businesses 38 Consolidated Statement Sage serves the market for accounting and As a result, upgrade revenues grew 10% of Total Recognised continue to automate their business Gains and Losses business management software solutions and represented 37% of software revenues.
processes for the first time.
38 Reconciliation of for small and medium-sized businesses Movements in Equity For those of our customers seeking to Shareholders Funds SMEs.
In this market, solutions designed SMEs generally have continued to spend 39 Notes to the Accounts replace their solutions, we have developed to fit SMEs specific requirements are strongly on services related to their 61 Independent appropriate migration programmes based on Auditors Report delivered through local distribution software, which are often critical to efficient our broad product portfolio.
49,000 existing 62 Notice of Meeting channels, including value-added resellers.
63 Financial Calendar customers purchased new software during During the year, the market has continued Those larger SMEs replacing their solutions the year.
As a result, revenues from the sale to exhibit three broad characteristics.
are increasingly seeking to purchase of new licences to existing customers systems for a number of their business represented 12% of software revenues.
processes, rather than just for accounting.
Often, the solutions they require are industry-specific.
The market penetration of industry-specific business solutions is still relatively low.
p 2 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 3 It is one of our key priorities to attract large Competitive position While improving its operating margin, the numbers of new customers to the Group.
UK business has continued to invest in its We continue to perform strongly against Continued investment in our products, our competitors by leveraging the key product portfolio.
Its migration programme, brands and marketing programmes resulted targeted at smaller SMEs, has been strengths of our business.
In a market in the recruitment of 182,000 new customers where a substantial proportion of revenues strengthened by the introduction of new during the year, excluding acquisitions.
products, increasingly addressing the needs comes from existing customers, our customer base of over 3.6 million SMEs is of SMEs in specific industries.
Support an important source of revenue opportunities.
95% of our customers have less than 100 Mainland Europe Our range of localised solutions, expanded employees and as a consequence very Economic conditions in Mainland Europe by acquisitions, meet the requirements of few of them have in-house IT expertise.
were the most challenging of all our markets SMEs by incorporating local business Instead they look to Sage to provide and were exacerbated by falling demand practices and legislation.
Since many of our customers are in the aftermath of the transition to the delivered by an established community of seeking to derive greater value from their euro.
However, acquisitions enabled local business partners and backed up existing solutions, we are providing higher revenues to grow by 4% and Mainland by a local support service.
We have a tiers of service within our support contract Europe represented 24% of Group revenues.
product portfolio which meets the needs offerings.
These were purchased by 250,000 of both small and large SMEs and which is In these conditions, many of our of our support customers during the year.
continuously developed, not only through competitors saw a steep decline in Support revenues grew 8% in the year.
acquisitions but also using feedback from business.
By contrast, our businesses the 21,000 customer support calls that we Industry-specific solutions remained highly profitable, as we were able receive each day.
These features will During the year, we introduced a number to take advantage of the sales opportunities continue to differentiate us from our of new solutions tailored for particular that remain within our large customer base.
competitors and are at the core of our industries, including manufacturing, Furthermore, we continued to invest in growth strategy.
These solutions upgrade programmes and in developing were introduced through internal product support services for our customers.
Operational review development and through acquisitions.
We UK Businesses acquired in the year contributed now serve over 160,000 of our customers UK revenues grew 3% and represented low initial margins and therefore overall with industry-specific solutions.
As a result 29% of Group revenues.
Revenue growth margins fell to 22% 2002: 24%.
revenues from industry-specific solutions was generated by sales to smaller SMEs, were 11% of revenues.
particularly through sales of upgrades and support to existing customers.
The operating margin increased to 40%, from the prior years 37%, reflecting increased revenues from existing customers and also the benefit of the prior years reorganisation of the mid-market division.
Figures stated before 2002 sponsorship costs associated with The Sage Gateshead see page 42. p 3 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 4 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review - continued 1 Overview US The US business has been built through a Timberline, acquired in September 2003 for 2 Chairmans and Chief series of acquisitions, which have created an enterprise value of 55.9m, has Overall US revenues grew by 4% and Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers represented 47% of Group revenues.
The a large product portfolio and a customer expanded our US industry-specific offer 18 Financial Review base spanning small and large SMEs.
into a further important market: the accounting business grew revenues by 2%, 21 Directors Report while the CRM business grew revenues 13%.
During the year, considerable progress was construction and real estate sector.
24 Corporate Governance Statement made in consolidating the US businesses We have 150,000 customers in the US 28 Remuneration Report Overall US operating margins grew to 23% into two divisions, one addressing smaller construction and real estate sector already 34 Consolidated Profit 2002: 21%, led particularly by the and Loss Account SMEs and one addressing larger SMEs.
Many of these improvement of CRM margins to 18% 35 Consolidated The centralisation of certain back-office businesses represent excellent prospects Balance Sheet 2002: 14%.
Overall US operating profits functions, together with a cohesive for the Timberline product and we will 36 Company Balance Sheet grew 17%.
37 Consolidated Cash approach to our customers and business develop programmes to facilitate migration Flow Statement partners, ensures we continue to build on to this higher-value solution.
This In the accounting business, revenues were 38 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised our strong market presence in the US.
acquisition contributed revenues of 1.6m driven by our core accounting range, where Gains and Losses in the period and made an operating profit 38 Reconciliation of our investment is focused, and in particular Acquisition activity Movements in Equity of 0.5m.
Our core Shareholders Funds Our acquisition strategy remains core 39 Notes to the Accounts product range represented 80% of to our approach to the market.
We Our acquisition of Grupo SP in October 61 Independent accounting revenues.
The balance of Auditors Report acquire businesses not only to enter new 2003, for an enterprise value of 49.1m, revenues came from our legacy products, 62 Notice of Meeting territories, but also to expand our offer established a leading position in the 63 Financial Calendar where we actively seek to migrate in territories where we already have a attractive Spanish market.
SP specialises customers to core products.
The acquisition of businesses with in providing solutions for smaller investment, these products continue to well-established brands and customer bases businesses.
It is our intention to sell provide strong profit contributions.
provides opportunities to sell more products additional products to SPs customer and services and so improve profitability.
base and also to extend SPs presence to The CRM business performed particularly address the needs of larger SMEs by well, due to the success of its upgrade We have made significant progress in our selling more sophisticated solutions.
programme, which introduced compelling acquisition strategy through one major new features for customers of the ACT!
acquisition during the year, and two further With the acquisition of Softline, completed contact management product.
In this acquisitions after the end of the year.
In in November 2003, for an enterprise value expanding market, we continue to make total, our acquisitions over the year and up of 54.9m, we gained market-leading significant investments in both marketing to present represent a 177.4m investment positions in South Africa and Australia.
in future growth, supported by our strong Softline has well-established brands and operating cash flows.
We will use our expertise to sell more products and services to Softlines customers.
p 4 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 5 The two acquisitions completed after the end We place significant emphasis on attracting, The Group is therefore positioned to deliver of the year added over 400,000 customers developing and retaining our people.
The growth in unchanged economic conditions.
to the Group, bringing our customer base to decentralised manner in which we manage Growth would be higher in the event of over 3.6 million businesses.
our global network of businesses is based improved conditions since larger SMEs on nurturing the entrepreneurship and would seek to replace their solutions.
The In addition, we made a number of small creativity of our employees.
It is their Groups largely fixed cost base means that acquisitions during the year, principally understanding of local customers that a significant proportion of incremental Concept Group in France, acquired in enables our businesses to develop products revenues will translate into profit growth.
January 2003 for an enterprise value of and services appropriate for the 5.0m.
This business provides The start to the new financial year has marketplace.
Our employees have also complementary treasury and consolidation been encouraging and, with significant played an important role in maintaining and software for SMEs.
This acquisition will earnings enhancement expected from our improving our levels of local customer provide stimulus to cross-selling initiatives, recent acquisitions, the Board views 2004 service, for which we have won numerous increasing the breadth and value of the with confidence.
We thank all our people for solutions offered to our customers.
Concept their contribution to the years performance.
contributed revenues of 6.5m in the period and made an operating profit of 0.4m.
Outlook Revenue from services has proven more Michael Jackson Paul Walker We will grow these businesses by using our resilient than the sale of software in the Chairman Chief Executive customer base marketing expertise not only weak economic conditions experienced to sell more products and services to the during the year and consequently we new customers, but also to sell the expect this part of the business to deliver acquired products to existing Sage continuing growth.
We expect to make further acquisitions as part of our response to the Spending by smaller SMEs has demonstrated market trends noted above.
less dependence on macro-economic conditions than spending by larger SMEs.
Our people Demand from our small business customers On 31 May 2003, Graham Wylie, Managing is relatively predictable and therefore we Director of UK operations and one of the expect this segment of our business to co-founders of Sage, retired from the continue its growth.
Sales to larger SMEs Board.
The directors would like to thank have been more sensitive to economic Graham for his contribution to the business conditions, but we will continue to grow this over the past 22 years.
part of the business through strong execution of marketing programmes for our expanded product and service range.
p 5 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 6 Local solutions in local markets 1 Overview At Sage, we believe that small businesses need Our local businesses also benefit from being Key acquisitions, completed after the end of the 2 Chairmans and Chief business management solutions that are part of a global group of businesses, in which year, extended our global reach to South Africa, Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers designed to suit their local business environment.
technological advances, best practice in Australia and Spain.
While these businesses 18 Financial Review customer service and marketing expertise can collectively have a strong base of over 400,000 21 Directors Report We continue to see accounting practices, tax be effectively shared.
We achieve this through customers, they are at a relatively early stage in 24 Corporate Governance legislation and business processes vary Statement the formation of virtual teams comprising key selling extra products and services to their profoundly across different geographies.
For 28 Remuneration Report management from our major businesses.
The experience that other Sage 34 Consolidated Profit example, the approach to structuring a chart of and Loss Account teams meet regularly to discuss and exchange companies have in selling support contracts, accounts in France is impacted by legal 35 Consolidated proven examples of best practice in a given area cross-selling complementary products and Balance Sheet requirements whereas a book-keeper in the UK of our business.
Within our central Group migrating customers up our product range will 36 Company Balance Sheet faces no such regulation and is comparatively 37 Consolidated Cash function, our Business Development team is also help these acquired businesses adopt new Flow Statement free to organise accounting records according focused on the identification and dissemination methods of selling to their customer bases, 38 Consolidated Statement to internal requirements.
Similarly the working of Total Recognised of best practice and on the co-ordination of offering additional growth potential.
Gains and Losses of the value added tax regime in Europe group-wide technology initiatives.
38 Reconciliation of significantly differs from the state tax We believe that the combination of the scale Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds requirements of the US.
These and many more We continue to extend our global network and synergies of a global organisation and the 39 Notes to the Accounts examples convince us that, at the SME level, and expand our product offering by acquiring knowledge and expertise of our local 61 Independent Auditors Report locally developed solutions best meet the needs businesses, both in new territories and in businesses, provides us with a significant 62 Notice of Meeting of our customers.
territories where we already have a presence.
63 Financial Calendar The acquired businesses bring well-established To respond effectively to these local needs, products, brands, customer bases and channels Sages regional businesses have a high degree to market.
We have made significant progress in of autonomy.
Local management makes the our acquisition strategy through one major relevant decisions about product development acquisition during the 2003 financial year and and marketing and provides the support services two further acquisitions after the end of the year.
Our global network of 17,000 business partners is also critical in delivering our local solutions.
We believe that this localised approach to our markets gives our businesses a competitive advantage.
p 6 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 7 p 7 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 8 Growing our customer base 1 Overview Each year, many thousands of SMEs introduce It is one of our priorities to sell this range of 182,000 customers purchased a Sage solution 2 Chairmans and Chief business management software to automate products to large numbers of new customers for the first time during the year.
Acquisitions Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers business processes.
They do this for many each year.
We recognise that, initially, many of added a further 51,000 customers during the 18 Financial Review reasons.
They may want to improve working these customers spend only modest sums on year and over 400,000 after the end of the year.
21 Directors Report capital management by invoicing more promptly their software solution.
However, we know that, 24 Corporate Governance For Sage, the value of attracting new customers Statement and tightening credit control procedures.
They if we work closely with such customers and lies not just in their initial spend on our 28 Remuneration Report may face changing regulations and want to help them get the most out of their software as 34 Consolidated Profit software, but also on the further products and and Loss Account ensure compliance through the automation of their businesses develop, many will come to services that they buy throughout the rest of 35 Consolidated data collection.
We see them taking the first purchase more of our products and services.
step towards automating business processes at We therefore invest heavily in development, 36 Company Balance Sheet 37 Consolidated Cash an early stage in their development and so find branding and marketing programmes Flow Statement that the majority of our new customers come throughout our product range.
In attracting new 38 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised from the large number of new businesses customers we are supported by 47,000 Gains and Losses formed each year in our markets.
accountants and 17,000 business partners who 38 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity recommend and resell our products.
The retail Shareholders Funds To meet this demand, Sage has developed a channel is also an important route to market for 39 Notes to the Accounts complete suite of solutions ranging from 61 Independent attracting very small businesses.
Auditors Report book-keeping software suitable for small SMEs 62 Notice of Meeting to business management software solutions for New Sage customers benefit from software 63 Financial Calendar larger SMEs with up to hundreds of employees.
products that are proven, reliable and enhanced every year with new and improved features.
p 8 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 9 p 9 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 10 Supporting our customers 1 Overview With 95% of Sages customers employing less The quality of our support service is critical to The provision of high quality support is integral 2 Chairmans and Chief than 100 people, it is not surprising that few developing an enduring relationship with our to the Sage business model, since it allows our Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers can justify investment in dedicated in-house customers.
We take over 20,000 calls a day from customers to get more out of their Sage 18 Financial Review staff to look after their IT needs.
Instead many our customers which provides us with a profound solution whilst also helping us to improve our 21 Directors Report of them look to Sage to provide this service.
This insight shapes products continually.
24 Corporate Governance Statement the future developments of our products and Sages customer service personnel are trained to 28 Remuneration Report provides strong opportunities to sell further 34 Consolidated Profit be able to help customers overcome a variety of and Loss Account products and services to our customers.
These challenges are often technical 35 Consolidated Balance Sheet in nature: for example, customers seeking In response to the needs of many of our 36 Company Balance Sheet clarification on the use of a particular feature of customers for personalised and more 37 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement our products.
However customers also seek comprehensive support, we have developed 38 Consolidated Statement support over a broad range of issues outside of premium service versions of our support of Total Recognised Gains and Losses pure product support.
For example, we advise contracts, which we sold to 250,000 customers 38 Reconciliation of customers about the potential impact of during the year.
Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds changing payroll legislation on their businesses, 39 Notes to the Accounts To Sage, support services provide recurring, how to account for certain transactions or how 61 Independent predictable revenues.
During the year, Sage Auditors Report to produce business forecasts.
generated revenues of 271m from sales of more 62 Notice of Meeting 63 Financial Calendar than 1 million support contracts.
p 10 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 11 p 11 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 12 Meeting our customers needs 1 Overview At Sage, we recognise that our customers are Up-selling Forecasting, Job Costing and Fixed Asset 2 Chairmans and Chief constantly developing their businesses to As a small business establishes itself and tracking tools: enabling accounts data to be Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers manage new challenges and to take advantage expands, its accounting and business analysed in order to improve business 18 Financial Review of new opportunities.
The changes in their processes become more complex.
For example, planning and control.
21 Directors Report businesses can take many forms.
Some it may start to export products and need to 24 Corporate Governance Human Resources solutions: enabling Statement customers are managing strong growth in invoice in a foreign currency or it may open new businesses to streamline HR administration 28 Remuneration Report their businesses, others are diversifying into outlets and so become multi-locational.
It is 34 Consolidated Profit and link it to payroll processes.
and Loss Account new product or geographic markets.
changes of this nature that can lead a customer 35 Consolidated Whatever the reason for change, they need to to replace its entry-level, book-keeping Our extensive dialogue with our customers Balance Sheet be sure that their internal systems can keep software with a more sophisticated business 36 Company Balance Sheet enables us to identify those businesses that 37 Consolidated Cash pace and continue to provide the business management solution.
Our trained customer need to replace or expand their existing Flow Statement insight they require.
account managers are well placed to identify software.
We then help those customers 38 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised these needs and assist customers with the migrate to a suitable solution from our broad Gains and Losses The breadth of our product range means that transition to new solutions that better serve 38 Reconciliation of product range, often engaging a local business our customers can be confident that we will be Movements in Equity their businesses.
partner to install and tailor the software to Shareholders Funds able to continue to meet their needs as their 39 Notes to the Accounts their requirements.
During the year, 49,000 of businesses change and grow.
Cross-selling 61 Independent our customers migrated to new solutions as a Auditors Report Many SMEs now have PCs throughout their Upgrades result of up-selling and cross-selling.
62 Notice of Meeting businesses and are seeing the benefits of 63 Financial Calendar For those customers that want to get the best automating further parts of their business and Sales of software to existing customers, out of their current Sage product, our software linking accounts data to these other areas.
through upgrades and migrations, generated upgrade programmes introduce appropriate To meet these emerging needs, Sage has 109m of revenue during the year.
Meeting our new features and enhancements for each of our expanded its suite of accounting products to customers needs through these initiatives not products.
The stimulus for new features often serve more parts of our customers businesses.
only increases the satisfaction and loyalty of originates from customer feedback.
Frequent For example we provide: our customers but also makes an important change in the fiscal and legislative environment contribution to our ongoing revenues.
also drives the continual enhancement of our Customer Relationship Management products.
373,000 existing customers CRM software: allowing a business to purchased upgrades during the year.
get a single view of all its interactions with each of its customers.
p 12 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 13 p 13 44441 GRich WhiteStock2 [q4] 1 27 04 10:44 AM Page 14 Focusing on industry solutions 1 Overview Businesses in different industries have different There are compelling reasons for focusing on In the UK, we acquired products for the 2 Chairmans and Chief information needs and manage their business these sectors.
We know that many thousands of construction and manufacturing industries, Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers processes in different ways.
In recent years, our 3.6 million customers are engaged in these which we are now offering as additional 18 Financial Review SMEs have shown an increasing demand for industries.
Today, the vast majority of them use modules for our generic accounting package.
21 Directors Report software tailored to the requirements of the our horizontal solutions whilst our research 24 Corporate Governance In Germany, we acquired the Primus range of Statement industry in which they operate.
indicates that many would prefer to use a products for builders and craftsmen.
28 Remuneration Report solution designed specifically for their industry 34 Consolidated Profit As an alternative to generic horizontal and Loss Account backed by Sages standards of customer Of a total of 1.3 million of our customers solutions, which for some SMEs are not the 35 Consolidated support.
Furthermore, our research of these operating in our six focus industries, we now Balance Sheet best fit, Sage offers industry-specific vertical sectors has identified a number of unique needs 36 Company Balance Sheet serve 160,000 customers with an industrysolutions for those industries where the needs 37 Consolidated Cash that are inherently not addressed by horizontal specific solution.
We will continue to invest in Flow Statement of SMEs are most specialised.
For example, a construction company developing and marketing these products so 38 Consolidated Statement enable SMEs to optimise their business of Total Recognised has to ensure it complies with the tax legislation that more of our customers, both new and Gains and Losses processes rather than adapting them to associated with the use of sub-contractors.
38 Reconciliation of existing, will be able to benefit from Sage conform with standard software.
Movements in Equity Similarly a charitable institution often needs to vertical solutions.
Shareholders Funds confirm that donations received have been routed 39 Notes to the Accounts Our vertical solutions range from extensions 61 Independent to designated beneficiaries.
We believe that these to our generic entry-level software to more Auditors Report unique requirements make tailored solutions complete solutions for larger SMEs.
Our 62 Notice of Meeting 63 Financial Calendar highly appealing to many of our customers.
current vertical offerings cover the following industry sectors: We considerably strengthened our vertical offering during the year, both by building Manufacturing new products and by acquiring vendors of Construction vertical solutions: Real Estate In the US, we acquired Timberline, a Distribution business serving the US construction and Accountancy real estate sectors.
Not-for-profit charities, schools, We launched a series of extensions to our hospitals, etc.
Peachtree product, for small SMEs in the US manufacturing, distribution, not-for-profit and accountancy sectors.
