| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 3 Chief Executives Review This has been a year of delivery based on our consistent focus on performance.
I am pleased to report that in the past year we magazine, Risk, with the prestigious award of delivered a good set of results, with profits up Corporate Risk Manager of the Year.
We have substantially and earnings per share for the also placed great emphasis on the talent and year up 29%.
The recovery at PaciCorp was performance management of our people: our particularly pleasing, with operating profit up top international cadre of 250 managers now by some 60% in the year.
Our dividend for the has clear incentive based performance year was 28.71 pence per share, an increase of agreements linked directly to our strategic 5%.
We also delivered a total return of 13.9% for objectives.
The sale of Southern Water at the beginning of the year PaciCorp enabled us to reduce our net debt by 2 billion, thus strengthening our balance sheet and PaciCorp is our regulated US business, with a financial ratios.
portfolio of over 8,000 MW of power from coal, gas, renewable and hydro resources, 15,000 We manage regulated and competitive miles of transmission lines and a distribution businesses in the UK and US to serve gas and system serving 1.5 million customers in six electricity customers.
PaciCorp is a leading regional integrated million in our businesses during the year, of utility and is a key player in western energy which some 345 million 42% was in areas of markets.
The strategic priorities of PaciCorp set growth, such as additions to our electricity at the beginning of 2002 03 were: networks, new generation especially renewables, and gas storage.
Investment of this sort is at the Achieve ROE target $1 billion EBIT by heart of our strategy to become a leading 2004 05 through: international energy company.
We invest only in General rate cases businesses where we can deploy proven skills Transition Plan and strong market knowledge.
Manage risk and reward balance The safety and well-being of our workforce and Deliver excellent customer service the public is our number one priority.
Sadly the year saw two of our colleagues killed at work: Operating profit for PaciCorp increased by one fatal accident in the UK and one in the US.
233 million to 463 million for the year to 31 Tragedies such as these reinforce my conviction that we should put nothing ahead of safety and March 2003.
Operating profit excluding goodwill amortisation for PaciCorp for the year grew by that we all have a role and responsibility to 225 million to 597 million, as a result of ensure that the highest standards are regulatory rate increases and recoveries of maintained at all times.
excess power costs of 80 million, signicantly lower net power costs of 257 million and During the past year we have made good continued progress in the delivery of Transition progress in further enhancing the underlying Plan benets of 64 million in the year.
These quality of our business.
As Business in the improvements were partly offset by lower Communitys Company of the Year 2002 we transmission revenues of 19 million from have continued to contribute signicantly to the reduced use of the transmission system by third Corporate Social Responsibility agenda in both parties, higher depreciation charges of 25 the UK and the US and are publishing our first million, risk mitigation and project costs of 41 combined Environmental and Social Impact million, insurance, pensions, and healthcare Report in July 2003.
Our robust risk costs of 46 million and one-off gains in the management policies and procedures were previous year and foreign exchange of 45 million.
recognised by the international finance Ian Russell, Chief Executive excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items excluding goodwill amortisation | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 4 Chief Executives Review continued Net capital expenditure for the year decreased Among the legislative measures approved in by 1 million to 368 million, with 111 million PaciCorps service territory, Senate Bill 61 in Utah invested in network growth and new generation will go into effect in early summer 2003.
This assets, 211 million on network and generation legislation provides an option for the Utah Public refurbishment, and 46 million on other capital Service Commission to use a future test-year period projects including information technology.
in utility rate cases that more appropriately reects the cost of providing service, which is necessary to Net capital expenditure is expected to increase reduce the period between capital investment and in 2003 04 as a result of higher generation and recovery in rates referred to as regulatory lag.
mining overhauls and refurbishment spend, Reducing regulatory lag should encourage needed, environmental initiatives and continued cost-effective investments in utility infrastructure by investment in expanding the network.
All companies such as PaciCorp.
expenditure prudently incurred is expected to The PaciCorp Transition Plan continues to earn its regulatory rate of return, and contribute progress on track as a key driver towards to an increased rate base for PaciCorp.
increasing profitability and supporting Achieve ROE target $1 billion EBIT by PaciCorps regulatory objectives.
Cumulative Transition Plan benets total approximately $217 2004 05 through: million, slightly ahead of this years target of General rate cases $204 million and we are now two-thirds of the Transition Plan way towards our goal of $300 million by 2004 05.
These included new call centre PaciCorp remains on track towards its target of technology and other process changes that $1 billion EBIT by 2004 05 through a helped increase employee productivity and combination of general rate cases and benets improve customer service.
In distribution, derived from the Transition Plan.
operational efficiency improvements were delivered such as Home Start, which allows General rate increases of approximately $160 overhead line crews to respond more effectively million per year have been awarded to to faults.
Additionally, continuing procurement PaciCorp from 1 April 2001 to 31 March 2003, cost savings and royalties from the sale of a with $31 million awarded during the year ended synthetic fuel operation last year contributed to 31 March 2003.
PaciCorps regulatory strategy PaciCorps continued delivery of the Transition includes ling regular rate cases to increase Plan in 2002 03. revenues to recover increasing operational costs and capital expenditure, while realising our full Manage risk and reward balance allowed return on investment.
In line with this PaciCorp successfully managed power demand plan, PaciCorp led a general rate case in during the challenging summer of 2002 and Oregon in March 2003, for $58 million, winter of 2002 03 through a robust representing a 7% rate increase, primarily as a combination of existing physical resources, a result of increased costs related to insurance weather-related hedge and peaking generation premiums, healthcare, pensions and other costs facilities.
During the winter, PaciCorps base of that are similarly affecting many other US coal-red generating resources and forward gas companies.
In California, testimony and hearings purchase strategy minimised the risks of natural in PaciCorps $16 million general rate case gas price volatility.
PaciCorp remains wellrequest have been scheduled to take place positioned and is fundamentally balanced for through May and June of 2003.
PaciCorp also the summer of 2003. plans to le in the next few weeks for general Our long-term Integrated Resource Plan IRP, rate cases in Wyoming and Utah.
which seeks to identify new resource During March 2003, PaciCorp was denied requirements to implement plans to deliver safe, recovery of $91 million in net excess power costs reliable low-cost power to customers over the in Wyoming and is currently seeking a re-hearing next 20 years, was led with state regulatory of this decision.
Additionally, PaciCorp commissions in January 2003.
The IRP is continues seeking to defer and recover progressing with the development of the Request approximately $16 million in net excess power for Proposals RFP process, under which costs in Washington state.
An order on this case PaciCorp will seek bids for future generation is expected by early summer 2003. needs.
RFPs will be issued for both shortand | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 5 long-term electricity requirements, including customers have signed up for Blue Sky or other renewable energy needs.
The RFP process is renewable products.
PaciCorps green pricing expected to extend until spring 2004. programme is one of the most progressive and successful in the US.
The IRP and the resulting RFP process have been created to identify PacifiCorps future To improve customer service and reliability, resource mix in a coordinated process with the PaciCorp continues its infrastructure six states in which PacifiCorp operates.
As part improvement projects in targeted areas, of these processes, PacifiCorp is expecting to particularly along Utahs Wasatch Front where add the equivalent of approximately 4,000 MW there is rapidly growing demand for electricity.
of capacity through a combination of sources The scope of this $200 million investment over the next decade.
These include the through 2005 includes transmission line addition of base load construction capacity or upgrades, new distribution substations, upgrades purchases approximately 2,100 MW, peaking to existing distribution substations and other resources approximately 1,200 MW and system enhancements.
These projects will purchased shaped power approximately 700 provide additional capacity to meet future load MW.
In addition, PacifiCorp also plans to demands throughout PaciCorps network, implement demand side management especially in high-growth areas.
programmes up to 450 MW on average and Infrastructure Division acquire renewable energy approximately 1,400 MW.
Among the steps involved in the IRP Infrastructure Division, our regulated UK wires process will be an evaluation of potential future business, is the UKs third largest distribution generation sources such as an additional company and comprises the distribution and generating unit at the Hunter station in Utah.
transmission networks in our Scottish service The air quality permitting process has begun to area, and the distribution network in Manweb, enable PacifiCorp to develop this option.
The strategic Prudently incurred costs of such investments priorities of the Infrastructure Division set at the are expected to be included in PacifiCorps beginning of 2002 03 were: future rate base.
Be at or near the regulatory efficiency frontier Deliver excellent customer service During 2002 03, PaciCorp continued to enhance Outperform operating cost targets its customer service commitments, while Achieve better than planned output from capex maintaining retail rates that are among the lowest Achieve high standards of customer service in the western US.
Improvements include enhancing PaciCorps outage communications Invest consistently to add value technology to provide customers with the ability to report outages directly, thus helping to speed For the year to 31 March 2003, the repairs or pinpoint potential problem areas.
Infrastructure Division reported operating profit PaciCorp was recognised by TQS Research of of 368 million, an increase of 13 million on Atlanta, Georgia, for improvements with large last year.
Higher regulated income of 9 million commercial and industrial customers.
Overall and net cost reductions of 18 million were customer satisfaction metrics show positive partly offset by higher depreciation, operational results, including improved accuracy and rates, insurance and pension costs of 14 timeliness of customer billing.
PaciCorp successfully tested a handheld meter reading system that will improve system The Infrastructure Division invested net capital functionality and accuracy.
The new system is expenditure of 230 million during the year, an expected to be implemented by the summer of increase of 32 million compared to the year to 2003, with further productivity improvements to 31 March 2002.
Of this, 141 million was follow over the next 12 months that will enhance invested in network refurbishment, 68 million PaciCorps scheduling technology.
on network expansion and 21 million on other capital projects.
Based on a recent report, PaciCorp was rated third in the US by the Department of Energy as a Net capital expenditure in 2003 04 is expected marketer of green energy under PaciCorps to increase modestly, with investment Blue Sky programme.
In excess of 21,000 concentrated on the regulatory asset base, | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 6 Chief Executives Review continued delivering the regulated rate of return.
In performance during a gale-force storm in the particular, further investment will be undertaken Mersey and North Wales area on 27 October 2002. in our overhead network modernisation We received specic praise for our performance programme.
in emergency preparation, telephone response and regular and realistic feedback to customers Be at or near the regulatory efficiency frontier on estimated times of reconnection.
Outperform operating cost targets Invest consistently to add value Achieve better than planned output from Capital expenditure to date contributes to capex maintaining the value of our asset base.
Progress in the Berwick and Borders Investment Programme, In line with our strategic priorities, we expect to which represents an investment of 11 million, be at or near the regulatory efficiency frontier for continues to be made with 65% of the 33kV circuits the next price review period beginning in April included in the programme being completed.
As previously stated, targeted cash cost Additionally 63% of the 11kV circuits included in savings of 75 million due by March 2003 were the programme have been completed or are achieved ahead of schedule by September 2002, under construction.
This part of the overhead reecting our increased commercial focus in the line build programme has been accelerated and division.
As a result, a further target of 33 is on target for completion by March 2004. million of net cost reductions was identied for completion by 2003 04, with net cost reductions Reinforcement of the transmission network will of 18 million being achieved in 2002 03 improve both the performance and resilience of through the initiatives set out below.
our network, with high prole projects at Gretna and Chapelcross representing a 13 million We are achieving better outputs from capital investment.
Benets of these projects include the expenditure by ensuring that costs are strengthening of the network to deal with the appropriately allocated to capital projects Chapelcross power station closure.
These projects through our asset manager service provider are being delivered on time and to budget.
model and have seen procurement savings of over 10% in a number of key purchase areas The Government target of 10% of supply from such as distribution transformers, overhead lines renewable sources by 2010 is an opportunity for and cables.
Additionally we have conducted a Infrastructure Division to invest in network benchmark review of call centre services, are capacity.
Our transmission business has making more efficient use of contractors, participated in a recent network study that achieving improved staff exibility using site explored the existing Scottish and Northern start arrangements and adopting a exible day England networks potential to support increased working system.
volumes of new renewable generation.
The study identied three progressive steps required to Achieve high standards of customer service upgrade our transmission network and we believe We continue to focus on delivering high the associated investment to be valued at roughly standards of customer service.
Our network 300 million 400 million over 10 years performance as measured by Customer dependent on renewable progress.
We are Interruptions and Customer Minutes Lost currently working to develop detailed plans in indicates that we are on track to be able to relation to this opportunity.
In addition, we participate in Ofgems Information and believe our distribution networks in Scotland and Incentives Programme IIP when the reward Manweb are well positioned to develop network mechanism for outperforming the regulatory investment opportunities in support of renewable targets is put in place by 2004 05. generation, should Government targets be met.
Our performance against Ofgems standard for The formal price control reviews of SP Transmission, SP Distribution and SP Manweb responding to customers written correspondence has improved signicantly.
In addition, our will continue during the forthcoming year.
We performance relative to the industry as measured have been working with Ofgem and the rest of by Ofgems customer satisfaction survey has the industry to develop the framework of price controls applying to all network monopoly ensured we are placed in the incentive reward band under the terms of the IIP.
Further, a recent companies and lay the foundations for the Government report recognised our good formal distribution Price Control Reviews.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 7 We believe a key issue for the reviews is the March 2003, mainly due to last years results provision of a sufficient and stable return to including a 19 million exceptional allow companies to attract and retain funding reorganisation charge.
Operating profit, from capital markets.
A further issue relates to excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional nding ways to facilitate renewable energy in line items, was 78 million for the year, 1 million with Government targets.
Both have implications lower compared to the previous year.
Net energy for the working of the regulatory regime and for margins have performed strongly, increasing by the long-term safety and integrity of the UK 15 million before higher depreciation, costs to electricity infrastructure.
capture and investment in energy efficiency schemes of 12 million and increased pension The outcome from the Price Control Review costs of 4 million.
The impact of lower should take account of guidance from the wholesale electricity prices has been mitigated Government on social and environmental by our integrated approach to managing the objectives, and recognise any additional energy value chain whereby our own electricity expenditure arising from such objectives.
Our production is extensively matched to our performance in the recent asset risk customer demand across Great Britain.
The management survey demonstrated our ability to renegotiation of the Nuclear Energy Agreement invest efficiently and effectively, and our cost and NEA with British Energy BE at a market storm response performances provide us with related price has delivered a benefit of the credibility to inuence this important debate.
approximately 25 million in the current year and provides a hedge against revenues which We should not lose sight of the fact that the have been impacted by lower wholesale prices.
industry is entering a new phase where simple cost-cutting and moderate investment leading to During the year the UK Division invested 68 price cuts for customers will no longer sustain million in capital projects, a 41 million future performance, and price increases will be reduction on the previous year.
We are committed to working with Ofgem invested in new generation and gas storage and the rest of the industry throughout the Price assets, 19 million in generation plant overhaul Control Review process to deliver a successful and refurbishment and 20 million on other outcome that balances the interests of projects including business transformation and shareholders, customers and all other stakeholders.
UK Division In 2003 04, subject to obtaining planning permission, net capital expenditure for the UK The UK Division is our competitive, integrated Division could increase substantially as a result generation and supply business.
The Division of our commitment to increase our windfarm manages activities across the energy value chain, capacity.
In addition, we plan to invest in gas maximising value from a diverse energy portfolio storage development and upgrades to generation of some 5,000 MW of coal, gas, hydro and wind assets required to maintain our generating powered plants through to our national capacity.
All investments are projected to have customer base of over 3.6 million customers, via returns signicantly in excess of the cost of an energy management function that acts to capital and enhance earnings.
balance and hedge energy needs.
The strategic Enhance margins through our integrated priorities of the UK Division set at the beginning operations of 2002 03 were: During the year we continued to benefit from the Enhance margins through our integrated exibility of our plant portfolio.
We have maintained what we believe is a best in class operations performance in the Balancing Mechanism, in particular from our exible CCGT plant at Rye Grow customer numbers and improve customer service House, and our pumped storage facility at Cruachan which is being upgraded in capacity Make selective investments using proven by 10%.
We continue to optimise the operating regime across our plant portfolio, aiming to knowledge and skills deliver the lowest sustainable costs and to Operating profit for the UK Division increased by position it to take maximum advantage of 18 million to 73 million for the year to 31 commercial opportunities.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 8 Chief Executives Review continued The renegotiation of the NEA relieved the Division improved the level of service provided by our call of a significant cost burden during the year, but centres during the year.
the future of the remaining restructuring ScottishPower was amongst the pioneers of the contracts is still unresolved.
We continue to press industrys EnergySure accreditation scheme for the Government strongly on this issue.
Whilst we sales staff, which will be governed by an external expect wholesale electricity prices to remain depressed for the next two years, there could be code administrator.
All ScottishPowers domestic sales teams have now been accredited to this upward price pressure emerging from tightening customer service and quality standard and we of the capacity margin throughout Great Britain, are now rolling out the scheme to cover all the and as environmental measures such as carbon trading and the Large Combustion Plants Directive relevant sales and marketing channels.
We may see some price In addition we have introduced three new energy volatility before a new equilibrium is reached.
products during the year, including Capped Price Retail sales revenues increased during the year, and No Standing Charge offers, which have further enhanced the range available to customers.
in part following an increase in prices to customers outside our service territories in Make selective investments using proven November 2002.
Prices to the majority of electricity customers in our Scottish and Manweb knowledge and skills The Renewables Obligation has created a market territories were increased effective 1 April 2003, framework that allows developers to capitalise although in both instances we have preserved our on the UKs rich resource of wind energy with competitive dual fuel prices and provided nearly all customers affected by the April 2003 price eligible developments attracting Renewables Obligation Certicates ROCs currently worth increase with the opportunity of mitigating the approximately 45 for every MWh produced.
increase by changing to a more economical With our strong track record in site identication product package.
and development, we are well placed to deliver Our business transformation programme, which investments with an attractive return and is underpinned by 6 Sigma methodology, enhanced earnings, and to market effectively continues to deliver significant savings to the the energy produced from renewable sources.
In the year to 31 March 2003, we have delivered revenue and cost benets of 14 In the year ended 31 March 2003, we have million across our business processes including made planning applications for 279 MW of sales and marketing, billing and debt.
The windfarm capacity and we now have in excess of utilisation of 6 Sigma methodology is now being 546 MW awaiting planning consent.
We have extended throughout the UK Division.
also begun environmental assessments on around 300 MW of capacity at additional Grow customer numbers and improve potential sites.
Progress towards planning customer service consent for our Whitelee 240 MW and Black We continue to be successful in growing our Law 134 MW developments has been slowed by customer base.
Customer numbers now stand at issues related to radar at Glasgow and 3.65 million, up by approximately 150,000 in the Edinburgh airports respectively.
As well as gaining new solution to this problem is being progressed and customers, we have successfully reduced overall we are confident that the issue will be resolved.
churn by 4 percentage points compared with the With 546 MW of windfarm capacity awaiting prior year.
planning consent and the 300 MW pipeline of projects under assessment, we are making Customer retention and win-back continues to be excellent progress towards alignment with the an important part of our marketing activities and Government target of 10% of supply from we have deployed TV advertising to good effect, renewable sources by 2010. emphasising that our dual fuel customers can benefit from a competitive price by joining We are upgrading five of our smaller hydro ScottishPower.
generating stations, totalling 45 MW, to qualify for ROCs.
As part of this, the upgrade to the 11 In response to customer research we introduced MW station at Bonnington was completed in a new bill design, to provide clearer and more 2002 03 with the other four stations to be concise communication of charges and have upgraded over the next 15 months.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 9 Our 60 million therm gas storage planning in Minnesota has commenced.
The Moraine application at Byley in Cheshire is presently project is fully contracted with a 15 year awaiting the result of a public inquiry, expected agreement to sell power to the Northern States to be determined in 2003 04.
This will bring PPMs total wind power under contract to more than 560 MW, PPM and total thermal renewable resource under PPMs ownership or control to approximately PPM is our competitive US energy company, 1,350 MW.
focused on providing environmentally In addition to its renewable generation portfolio, responsible energy products to wholesale customers.
Its principal assets are thermal and PPM has a total of 37 billion cubic feet BCF of renewable generation resources and gas storage gas storage capacity under ownership, up from assets primarily serving western US and 14 BCF the prior year.
This includes the 21 BCF acquired at the Katy gas storage facility in Canadian markets.
The strategic priorities of PPM set at the beginning of 2002 03 were: December 2002 and a 2 BCF expansion of the Alberta Hub gas storage facility during the year.
Grow its renewable thermal energy portfolio PPM has successfully integrated the Katy assets and gas storage hub services and is on target to deliver expected results.
PPM Optimise returns through the integration of intends to add to its 40% ownership in the assets and commercial activities Alberta Hub gas storage facility with the purchase of an additional ownership interest this PPM reported an operating profit of 28 million spring.
for the year, compared to a loss of 5 million last Optimise returns through integration of year.
The growth in operating profit for the year assets and commercial activities was due to the increased contribution from longterm sales contracts and gas storage activities Integration of plant operations, contract dispatch and energy management added $7 million in and optimisation benets of 53 million, partly the year.
The optimisation benets come from offset by higher depreciation charges and other displacing plant operations with low-priced operating costs of 17 million to support business growth and the benefit from settlement power purchases, selling the displaced gas or placing it in storage, as well as using of a 3 million contract in the prior year.
transmission and contract delivery exibility to PPMs net capital expenditure for the year was manage locational price differences in both gas 36 million, a decrease of 170 million on last and power.
year, which included investment to complete the PPM has new and expanded terms for energy Klamath Falls and West Valley generation projects.
In the current year, the business supply to the Sacramento Municipal Utility invested 30 million in new generation and 6 District, one of PPMs largest customers.
Arrangements include revisions to original longmillion in other projects.
In addition, we acquired term contracts executed in 2002 03, as well as the Katy gas storage facility for 101 million.
sales of up to half the output of the 150 MW In 2003 04, PPMs net capital spend is expected High Winds Energy Center in northern California to increase, primarily as a result of the and 100 MW of summer peaking power supply construction of new windfarms and development from PPMs portfolio.
opportunities including Moraine and Flying Cloud, which are expected to deliver favourable In 2002 03, PPM placed 319 MW under longterm contract.
In addition, PPM has effectively rates of return and enhance earnings.
managed its commodity exposure, having sold Grow its renewable thermal energy portfolio its positions forward for 5-25 years.
Fluctuating and gas storage hub services commodity prices have little impact on PPMs PPM continues to grow its renewable energy portfolio value, except where increased volatility business and has recently announced the gives PPM an opportunity to take advantage of development of the 44 MW Flying Cloud Wind plant options, delivery exibility, gas storage and Project in Iowa, which includes a 15 year other tactics to maximise value.
agreement to sell power to Interstate Power & Light, a subsidiary of Alliant Energy.
In addition, construction of the 51 MW Moraine Wind Project | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 10 Chief Executives Review continued Regulatory and Government Policy Issues introduction of BETTA will not have a material effect on ScottishPower in 2003 04.
The Multi-State Process MSP financial impact of the BETTA Bill is broadly PaciCorp continues work on the MSP, which is neutral for ScottishPower, but zonal charges for designed to resolve how prudently incurred costs transmission access and losses would have a are allocated among the six states in which negative impact on the generation business in PaciCorp operates.
A collaborative process is the UK Division.
We were pleased to see that the underway to identify possible solutions, conduct Trade and Industry Select Committee, in its Fifth technical conferences with participants and meet Report, recommended delay in the with key parties to examine specic issues.
implementation of transmission access reform PaciCorp intends to le a final, detailed until the costs and benets are able to be regulatory proposal with each state utility assessed on a Great Britain-wide basis.
ScottishPower, together with a number of other companies, has led for a judicial review of RTO West Ofgems decision to implement zonal PaciCorp and nine other utilities received initial transmission losses in England and Wales.
approval of their RTO West proposal in September 2002 from the Federal Energy Energy White Paper Regulatory Commission FERC.
Under the The recently published White Paper on energy proposal, which the FERC called Best in Class sets out to achieve a lower carbon energy among all the RTO lings in terms of the system, proposing significant investment in proposed design, structure and thoroughness of renewable energy, energy efficiency and in approach, the ling utilities will retain ownership networks.
The UK Division is well placed to take of their transmission assets, but transfer early mover advantage on renewable generation operational control of their system to RTO West.
and the Infrastructure Division should benefit As proposed, RTO West will help stabilise from the Governments commitment to investing electricity transmission and guard against in networks.
We are pleased that Ofgem market manipulation in the western part of the recognises the need to plan and develop United States and Canada, while providing a networks to facilitate the transmission of reasonable level of return for future transmission renewable energy from Scotland to centres of investments.
The RTO West members are demand in the rest of Great Britain.
currently planning to le with the FERC this summer and expect a response from the FERC Looking ahead by the end of 2003.
During 2002 03, we reported each quarter our Federal Energy Regulatory Commission FERC progress in delivering the key strategic priorities The FERC continues its various investigations for each of our four businesses.
Some of those into western US market manipulation related to priorities have now been achieved and further the 2000 01 energy crisis.
As a regulated utility new priorities have been identied.
Accordingly, that participated in these markets primarily to looking ahead our strategic priorities are as meet the companys own power requirements, follows: PaciCorp has responded to various data requests from the FERC and other market PaciCorp participants.
These cases involve trading Achieve ROE target $1 billion EBIT by practices connected with the California power 2004 05 crisis, as well as spot market refund cases, and complaints brought by PaciCorp against Manage energy risk and supply demand wholesale power marketers to seek refunds for balance high-priced power purchased in 2001.
PaciCorp continues to press for economic Deliver excellent customer service recovery, while fully responding to requests for information.
Invest to grow the regulatory asset base, including delivery of the integrated resource plan British Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements BETTA The recently announced delay by the Department of Trade and Industry to the | ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 11 Infrastructure Division Conclusion Invest consistently to add future value, Our consistent focus on performance last year including supporting renewables enabled us to deliver a good set of results.
We will continue to place a premium on leading Optimise our position through the 2005 price operational performance, to secure further control reviews and the introduction of BETTA improvements in the results of our businesses.
There are substantial opportunities to expand Deliver cost-effective, high quality customer ScottishPower through incremental investments service in each of our businesses, particularly in networks, generation including renewables and UK Division gas storage.
With as much as 40% of our capital Enhance margins through our integrated investment in new assets in these areas, we believe we are well positioned to continue to operations grow.
The outlook for ScottishPower remains Increase the value of our customer base positive, with further improvements expected through targeted sales growth and improved from our businesses.
We also believe that our customer service continued focus will enable us to take advantage of the opportunities to create shareholder value Progress towards achieving 10% of electricity that will, over time, arise from the changing supply from renewable sources by 2010 structure of our industry in the UK, the rest of Europe and the US.
PPM Continue to be a leading provider of renewable energy products Grow natural gas storage and hub services business Ian Russell Chief Executive Create additional value by optimising the returns from our capability across gas and power 7 May 2003
