04 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Group Chief Executives review 2 billion Severn Trent Water continued to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion investment programme for the five-year period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005.
I am pleased to report a satisfactory set of results achieved in what can be described as a difficult year, with broadly unchanged pricing in the water business and challenging economic conditions in our main UK and US markets.
The groups core businesses water, waste and laboratories all nished the year in robust shape with waste and laboratories particularly well positioned to take advantage of the economic upturn, whenever it comes.
Management confronted problem areas and has largely dealt with them.
Agreement has been reached with those customers in the US over the Systems contracts that were in dispute: the Water Purication Division of Services showed a strong improvement The groups core businesses water, in the second half and Biffa Belgium had a signicantly better year.
waste and laboratories all nished the year in robust shape with waste And we have successfully targeted major multi-year contracts in highly competitive and laboratories particularly well areas of our business.
positioned to take advantage of the Water The water and sewerage business produced economic upturn whenever it comes.
another creditable performance, given broadly unchanged pricing and continuing cost pressures, which mostly offset the companys outperformance against regulatory targets for gross operating cost efficiencies.
The business continues on track to outperform its regulated targets, and indeed, to meet its own stretched targets.
Gross operating Robert Walker cost efficiencies amounted to 61 million Group Chief Executive per annum in 2002 2003.
However, these savings are being offset by cost pressures.
That is why it is important to continue to look for new opportunities to make operating cost savings.
Severn Trent Water continued to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion investment programme for the five-year period 2000 2001 to 2004 2005 and is on track to deliver average capex efficiencies of around 7% over that period.
I am pleased that the company has achieved its best ever customer service 05 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The water and sewerage business produced another creditable performance, given broadly unchanged pricing and continuing cost pressures.
The markets for Biffa and Services are expected to remain difficult into 2003 2004, though their leadership positions in waste in the UK and in environmental testing in the US and the UK should provide platforms for future growth when the economic climate improves.
performance, as measured against the OFWAT We remain convinced of our analysis of In addition, we have been shortlisted to the customer service standards.
the attractiveness of the waste sector.
final two on long-term contracts with the The UK waste sector has the most Ministry of Defence 1 billion revenues In addition, of course, there are increased potential for growth in Europe: and another integrated waste contract.
costs that are specic to the water sector.
Our integrated business model of These formed the basis of our successful collection, landll disposal and special These all demonstrate the groups abilities IDOK application last Autumn and most waste treatment is right for the future: to bring resources together from all our of these costs were allowed.
Our focus on industrial and commercial companies to compete for valuable longwaste remains the right one: term business.
The AMP4 pricing review process is now New municipal contracts combining well under way.
collection, recycling, treatment and Core businesses disposal open up a significant market Our core businesses of water, waste and While we are pleased with the Regulators opportunity for Biffa.
laboratories have four basic advantages: commitment to greater transparency in the Leadership, scale and low cost advantage: process and the considerable efforts he is I am confident Biffa will continue to be Among the best management teams in making with City and investor audiences, we the benchmark waste operator in the UK.
each sector: remain concerned about three central issues: Consistent strong past performance: The need to retain equity in the sector, both Services Long-term opportunities for profitable growth.
as a source of capital and as an incentive Severn Trent Laboratories STL, performed towards greater efficiency, is as critical strongly throughout the year, delivering These will stand us in good stead as we face as ever it is the best way of ensuring organic growth in profit before interest, tax up to another testing year in 2003 2004 sustained investment and performance: and goodwill amortisation of over 10%, and with confidence and commitment.
There is still uncertainty about the is now well positioned to take advantage of varying demands of the quality regulators, growth opportunities in new areas of testing.
People particularly the EA, around the capital None of what I have reported would programme.
We must have clear guidance Operating Services continued to add have been possible without the excellent and coordination between the various profitable new municipal outsourcing performance of our staff throughout this regulators: businesses, although weaknesses remain year.
I am grateful for the resourcefulness We need to improve the mechanics and in the smaller pipeline services businesses.
and enthusiasm shown by employees in effectiveness of interim price determinates the face of continual challenge.
The objective should be Reecting management actions, Water to deal with material charges to company Purications performance improved in Outlook obligations as and when they occur, leaving the second half.
Overall, the group is likely to experience companies in the same financial position another challenging year in 2003 2004. as if the charges had been foreseen during Severn Trent Water International STWI, Severn Trent Water will benefit from the the review.
improved profitability in its Aquan outcome of the IDOK and is expected to investment in Belgium and commenced continue to outperform its regulatory Waste work at Terni, the only privatised contract targets for gross operating cost efficiencies.
The key theme for the whole year has been in Italy to start operations so far.
However offsetting cost pressures are lower industrial and commercial volumes, expected to grow.
In addition, increases in resulting from the slowing down in the UKs Major long-term contracts depreciation are also expected, reecting manufacturing and commercial sectors.
This We have successfully bid for long-term the growing capital expenditure programme.
has impacted all three of Biffas UK divisions contracts amounting to more than 1 billion collection, landll and special waste.
The markets for Biffa and Services are A contract to operate a strategic expected to remain difficult into 2003 2004, However, Biffa has delivered a solid partnership with Solihull Metropolitan though their leadership positions in waste performance in difficult market conditions, Borough Council.
This is worth 750 million in the UK and in environmental testing in particularly in the UK.
Excluding the in revenues over the next 15 years, and is the US and the UK should provide platforms contribution from foot-and-mouth, in due to be signed in the Autumn of 2003: for future growth when the economic climate 2001 2002 Biffa has produced a broadly The integrated City of Leicester waste improves.
at performance year on year.
contract, producing revenues of 300 million over 25 years.
