5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 4 04 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chief Executive Ofcers review Chief Executive Ofcers review In 2003, Shire reviewed and began implementing Our model emphasises the D in R&D.
a new strategy aimed at ensuring continued Therefore, our R is based on nding products future growth.
Since its inception, Shire has invented by others.
I believe this is a sound idea grown through acquisitions, subsequent product because in house R&D has not met the needs development and effective selling.
This idea of the larger companies.
During 2003, slightly remains the foundation of our model.
Some could less than one-half of all products marketed by say that it is back to the future in that we will large pharmaceutical companies were not search take the re from research, and then invented there.
This percentage has increased develop and sell.
But at this point in our history, steadily over the last decade.
Conversely, 1 this would be over-simplication.
The Group has approximately 70% of all Phase III projects migrated from this simple idea, and making this were developed by non-major pharmaceutical proven concept viable in todays larger organisation companies.
Our conclusion is that pre-clinical has kept us very busy.
research is becoming less predictable and the creativity may lie in a diffuse cross-section of Starting in July, we began exiting certain smaller companies or in products that are too businesses, changing our organisational structure small to contribute in a meaningful way to the and reshaping our leadership.
It is critical that major companies.
Therefore, we are focusing we simplify, create a unied culture and, most our licensing efforts on products or projects in importantly, integrate our drug development and the later stages of development with potential commercial activities.
I believe that these actions peak sales of US$150 million to US$500 million.
are the fundamental underpinnings that will This seems to keep us below what is relevant enable the organisation to create value in the to large Pharma, but meaningful to us.
Exiting Businesses Our goal is clear we plan to lead where we As we announced in August, we intend to Matthew Emmens choose to compete.
Our opportunities lie in exit our vaccines business.
We have had Chief Executive officer addressing underserved markets and growing numerous expressions of interest and are products beyond what consensus opinion might currently examining the options, which will be.
We have done this consistently in the past.
best suit our shareholders and the Companys We have learned that with the right products, interest.
In pursuing these options we expect small, agile and focused sales forces can deliver to have completed the process by the middle impressive results.
We have closed our early stage research Lead Optimisation unit in Canada and closed Strategic actions in 2003 US manufacturing and distribution sites.
Focused Research and Development R&D We have refocused our R&D resources and Mergers & Acquisitions and Out-licensing technology to concentrate on areas where we In addition, as a result of exiting oncology and have a commercial presence and on a small anti-infective research, we announced that we number of high-potential, late-stage products.
would examine opportunities to out-license the After a thorough evaluation of our pipeline, we oncology project, TROXATYL and to seek a currently have 6 products in registration, 2 in partner for the HIV project, SPD754 both phase Phase III and 2 in Phase II of development.
We continue to expect both to be strategy aims to deliver the combined benefit of completed by the middle of 2004. increased returns and lower risk.
Our geographic focus is on the US and Europe.
Therefore, we successfully out-licensed the Japanese marketing and development rights to AGRYLIN and FOSRENOL to two companies with established presence in this market.
Furthermore, we have signicantly enhanced our M&A effort by targeting acquisitions in the US, including larger scale transactions.
5766 shire SFS artwork 11. qxd 22 6 04 4:10 pm Page 5 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chief Executive Ofcers review 05 Reorganisation Patent challenges Given Shires merger history and rapid It is inevitable that Shire will receive challenges, development, it was inevitable that a complex particularly from generic manufacturers, to its structure had developed.
In order to better drugs portfolio it is a reection of todays integrate, coordinate and rationalise our business pharmaceutical industry.
Our position is clear: activities, we have embarked on a wide reaching we will vigorously defend our intellectual strategic change programme.
The aim is to property, including patents.
move the Group from a silo structure to a globally integrated organisation composed of Corporate Social Responsibility cross-functional teams with clear accountability Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility for delivering results.
The business will also be CSR has also developed during the year: with serviced by support functions that will be global the establishment of our CSR Committee led by in their outlook.
I have changed our management our Chief Financial officer Angus Russell, and model to accomplish this.
This resulted in the setting of 2004 objectives.
We will continue changes to the composition of the Executive to report regularly on these activities.
Committee and the addition of two management components The Portfolio Review Committee Future development and Portfolio Teams.
I chair both the Executive Shire is stronger than ever and I am confident Committee and the Portfolio Review Committee that the implementation of our strategic initiatives PRC and the Portfolio Teams report in to the PRC.
will position us well for future growth.
The Company has a promising future with a strong The US is the worlds largest pharmaceuticals product franchise, an energetic management market, where we already generate 68% of team and several very promising projects in the our revenues and where more than 50% of late stages of development which should be our employees are based.
In recognition of this ready for launch in the near to mid term.
Our we will establish a new corporate ofce on the aim during the forthcoming year is to continue East Coast of America, Philadelphia is being to strengthen Shires position in its marketplaces considered in this regard.
In addition to the and to develop the Company into one of the vaccine sites in Canada and the US that will leading specialty pharmaceutical companies be exited, we will close our Newport, Kentucky in the world.
The year 2003 was exciting and challenging.
The The introduction of the Portfolio Teams and the dedication and professionalism of our employees housing of R&D and US commercial functions made our success possible.
Their hard work and under one roof will improve communication innovative approach will continue to ensure and focus and speed up the process of making success for the Company in the years ahead.
Other key corporate functions such 1 as Business Development and Human Resources source: IMS, R&D Focus January 2004. will also be located in the new US ofce.
Shires UK Basingstoke ofce will remain the Companys headquarters, but all Executive Committee members will have ofces in both locations to ensure management is spending time where the day-to-day business needs are greatest.
The International division will continue to be led from the UK and appropriate significant R&D presence will also be maintained in Basingstoke to serve the European markets.
We foresee having just four major North American facilities by the end of 2005 compared with fourteen at the beginning of 2003.
