We can look back on this financial year with some satisfaction having achieved a very good result.
We look forward to the coming year with enthusiasm, knowing that there are opportunities available and that we have the resources to take full advantage.
the Polish sugar industry, which should clearly benefit from support.
Where necessary we will continue to add to our its entry into the European sugar regime next year, regardless teams with targeted moves either from across the group or of the eventual level of EU price support available.
British Sugar through recruitment from outside the business.
Our success has generated significant cash ow over the years and we in developing people will be a major determinant in the expect this ow to continue although eventually on a reduced achievement of long-term profit growth.
This cash will be used in two ways, rstly to invest back into sugar to maximise our efficiencies and secondly to develop Overall we are pleased to record another year of strong other businesses within the group to ensure that growth will results.
Our focus is now on a future which we face with continue despite the possible erosion of sugar profitability.
We can look back on this financial year with some satisfaction Peter Jackson Chief Executive having achieved a very good result.
We also know that there is room for improvement.
Performance at our frozen bakery operation in the UK is still unsatisfactory and the required progress has not been forthcoming from our bakery ingredients operation in Denver or from our China based animal feed business.
We aim to give these businesses the attention necessary to ensure improvement.
The group operates a very devolved management style which ensures that decisions are taken as close to the point of impact as possible with the minimum of bureaucracy.
This freedom to act and with it the heightened level of accountability of local management are major elements in making the group an exciting place to work for those people with an appetite for decision making.
We have confidence in our people and are committed to providing those who make the decisions with the proper development and Annual Report and Accounts 2003 7 famous brands Breakfast time Around the world people are making a great start to the day with our grocery products.
8 Associated British Foods plc Grocery Our businesses around the world produce and sell famous brands as well as own label grocery products.
Highlights of the year Ovaltine enhances our position in the international hot beverages market.
Mazola, in the US, is successfully integrated and continues its excellent performance.
Kingsmill continues to drive the UK premium bread sector.
Silver Spoon adds Light variety to its market leading range of sugars.
Hot beverages Twinings Sugar & sweeteners and Ovaltine together now We lead the sugar and supply a wide range of hot sweeteners market in the beverages across the world.
UK through our retail brand Silver Spoon.
Flour, rice & noodles We supply a variety of ours Vegetable oils In the US in the UK and Australia.
we lead the own label Westmill Foods produces and foodservice oil sectors rice and noodles for the and Mazola is the No.
1 retail and foodservice retail brand.
Baked goods We produce Grocery at a glance Meat & dairy Our Australian a wide range of baked goods business supplies hams, in the UK and Australia.
2003 2002 salamis, sausages and These include leading bread Sales m 2,346 2,027 dairy products.
These are brands such as Kingsmill, Operating profit m 148 108 promoted under strong Allinsons, Sunblest and local brand names such Tip Top, plus other top profit margin % 6.3 5.3 as Chapmans, Dons, brands such as Ryvita, Return on capital employed % 20.9 15.4 Melosi and Watsonia.
