I am very pleased with the performance of our core ports and transport business this year, and Group Chief our UK operations in particular.
They had another good year and contributed 86 per cent of the groups total operating profit for 2003.
The 12 new contracts that we signed during the year Executives review take the total number of major contracts we have won since the beginning of 2000 to over 65.
Included within our ports and transport business is It has been a year of ABP Connect, our value-added services business, which has also performed well.
Turnover increased by 16 per cent to 70.3 million and operating profit steady growth driven increased by almost 30 per cent to 5.4 million during the year, which is in line with our expectations.
We have set ABP Connect another tough target for 2004 and expect further growth in this area.
by new business wins Even though our UK ports business has outgrown the quoted UK ports sector over the past four years, we believe that there is still more to come.
We will therefore maintain our strategy of growing the business in a low-risk way.
Assuming we get the necessary approvals, we plan to invest more than 1 billion over the next 10 years.
Up to 600 million is expected to be invested in a deep-sea container terminal at Dibden, Southampton, four new river terminals planned for the Humber will cost around 140 million, with the balance of the planned investment being utilised by regular growth projects in all of our ports.
As the recent Transport Select Committee report acknowledged, the UKs competitive position is being seriously undermined by an imminent lack of deep-sea container capacity.
Unless our current deep-sea facilities are expanded, Southampton Container Terminals is expected to be at full capacity within two years.
We expect a decision on Dibden in 2004.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE: BO LERENIUS 18 FEBRUARY 2004 22 Of the Humber projects, we recently reached an Although returns from our six vehicle-processing in the UK, there is plenty of capacity.
Our strategy business for 2004 is already under contract.
agreement with DFDS Tor Line PLC for the terminals in the USA are improving volumes have is to get planning permission before selling nonWhile any significant improvement in the global development of a two-berth roll-on roll-off facility almost doubled over the past three years and we operational land.
This is purely to optimise its economy is uncertain it is improving slowly, which at the Port of Immingham, involving an investment have won a lot of new car import and export business value: we are not interested in speculative is good for business in general.
We also finished of 27.5 million under a 25-year agreement.
It is we do not anticipate any further significant property development or property projects that 2003 strongly, which offers further anticipated that this facility will become operational investment or expansion in the near future.
We will are not port-related.
encouragement for the year to come.
The proposed coal continue to grow the existing business, but it is a terminal at Immingham, for which we already have small part of our overall ports and transport The only other potential area of expenditure that I Thank you for your continued support.
the necessary approvals, continues to be operations.
want to mention relates to the UK governments progressed.
We expect to receive permission for new security measures to combat terrorism, both the planned roll-on roll-off facility at Our commitment to organic growth and the which are due to be implemented by 1 July 2004.
Immingham and the short-sea container terminal potential in our core UK ports business mean that The government has been realistic in terms of the at Hull by the end of the first half of the year.
The we do not expect to make any major acquisitions enhancements it requires and we do not expect fourth terminal will take longer to develop.
We believe that developing new the cost implications to be dramatic.
We have projects within our own business that can deliver already notified our customers that our intention the required rate of return represents a much is to pass on any additional costs to them.
Bo Lerenius more efficient use of capital than paying a Group Chief Executive premium and increasing our risk profile by buying Health and safety is discussed in detail in the 18 February 2004 We will only build these another business.
corporate social responsibility section of this new terminals once we have report on pages 86 and 87.
I want to draw Turning to other operational matters, we have attention to it here because there were two fatal secured customers for them.
made the company leaner and more efficient accidents at our facilities during 2003, which is Our strong strategic position during the year through the successful clearly unacceptable and casts a shadow over implementation of a cost-reduction exercise.
We the positive progress that we have made in this ABPs 21 ports are in some cut over 1.5 million from our cost base in 2003 extremely important area over recent years.
Our of the UKs best locations by reducing headcount by over 150, or 4 per cent, health and safety targets will remain extremely across all areas of the business.
We expect these demanding during 2004 and I promise you that means that we can afford to savings to increase to at least 3 million in 2004. we will continue to work hard to improve this area.
be disciplined in how we Our non-core property and land disposal I am positive about our growth prospects for the do business.
We only make programme is very much on target and should be coming year.
It is undeniable that Dibden Terminal completed in 2004.
As promised, since 1 January has the potential to transform our business by significant investment once 2000 we have sold 279 million of non-core increasing the groups operating profit we have secured solid, longassets, completed a share repurchase substantially over a number of years.
But even programme and invested the surplus proceeds in without it, there is still more than enough growth term contracts, usually of our core UK ports business to generate higher capacity in the rest of our core UK ports and 10 years or more, offering an returns.
Approximately 176 million has come transport business.
from sales of non-core property and land.
We will internal rate of return of at continue to sell surplus land.
As we own Our business model is stable, resilient and highly least 15 per cent.
approximately 13,000 acres of land and seabed transparent.
Half of the groups forecast UK ports Our container volumes AMPORTS continued to add continued to grow during 2003 new business Our coal import facilities at Potential future investment on Immingham operated at close the Humber to capacity during 2003 140m Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 23
