Chief Executives review Effective strategy delivers results Customer confidence improved slowly as the year progressed.
Against this background, it was therefore Review 2003 particularly encouraging to have achieved an organic previous next growth rate in sales of 7%.
Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review 20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities 24 Directors remuneration report 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment 35 Directory of companies Hans Nilsson Chief Executive Customer confidence improved slowly as the year progressed.
and Europe, but Asia saw an increase of around 25%, supported Against this background it was therefore particularly encouraging by PANalytical with its strong presence in the region, particularly to have achieved an organic growth rate in sales of 7%.
addition, PANalytical, in its first full year of Spectris ownership, showed a strong performance in sales and profit at constant Operating margins maintained Review 2003 exchange rates.
The introduction of innovative products, cost optimisation, a shift Consistent execution of the strategy within the Spectris of sourcing to lower cost regions and increased volumes largely previous next companies during a period of challenging conditions is the reason offset the adverse effect of exchange rates on gross margins.
for growth greater than that of underlying markets.
Management Operating margins were steady at 10.5%.
The exchange rate actions to achieve a shift in the staff mix from operations and exposure is primarily due to a large proportion of sales in North administration to sales and marketing dovetails with customers America and Asia in US dollars, or in currencies linked to the migration of manufacturing to low cost and rapidly developing dollar, with operating costs to a large extent denominated in economies in China, India, eastern Europe and Mexico.
This was a significant feature within Process Contents 3Financial highlights Spectris sales and marketing staff make up 41% of the total Technology.
4Focusing on niche applications headcount, up from 33% five years ago.
This change has been 6Helping customers to meet particularly important in Asia, where the share of total company Continuous improvement to ensure competitiveness global challenges 8 Building customer advantages sales has doubled from 11% in 1999 to 22% in 2003.
A number of initiatives were pursued during the year to 10 Chairmans statement accelerate better business practice.
Examples include shortening 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors Geographic coverage of sales, development and production cycle times: reduction of 18 Financial review Europe, North America and Asia accounted for 46%, 27% and administration: expansion of sales coverage, mainly in Asia: and 20 Directors report 22% of sales in 2003 respectively.
Taking currency movements better penetration of targeted industry segments such as 23 Directors responsibilities 24 Directors remuneration report into account, year-on-year growth was modest in North America pharmaceuticals and cement.
Particular focus was placed on 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment 35 Directory of companies Employee profile % total headcount Marketing Admin Operations Customer-facing R&D 1999 2003 Over the past 5 years a change in the staff mix has resulted in a greater number of customer-facing staff.
Energy & utilities Machine manufacturing Food & drink Semiconductor & telecoms Web, print & packaging product and strategy management training in processes to understand customers needs and convert this knowledge into innovation in products and processes.
The key mission continues to be the delivery of increased value to our customers via our 1,800 customer-facing staff.
Review 2003 Another key management process is the translation of customer needs into the sourcing and development of new previous next technologies.
In the year, a number of new licensing agreements from universities, other institutions and industry were established and existing ones progressed.
Malvern and PANalytical are good examples of companies which have benefited from recent collaboration projects, resulting in new products being introduced.
Contents 3Financial highlights 4Focusing on niche applications Sector performance 6Helping customers to meet Electronic controls reported sales growth of 12% from global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 117.6m to 132.1m and operating profit growth of 21% from 10 Chairmans statement 13.0m to 15.8m.
Performance was supported by sales 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors expansion in all four companies, particularly at Arcom and HBM.
18 Financial review Arcom and Microscan delivered improved operating profits.
20 Directors report HBMs continuing manufacturing expansion in China was Industry profile 23 Directors responsibilities 24 Directors remuneration report 2003 sales by end user industry supported by a move to new premises and this was completed in 30 Corporate social responsibility the fourth quarter.
This will enable HBM to transfer further load 34 A better environment cell production from Germany to China.
Significant new products 35 Directory of companies were introduced, including setting new standards in miniaturisation of industrial bar code scanners at Microscan and a secure remote telemetry product from Arcom.
In-line instrumentation achieved sales growth of 5% from 172.7m to 182.0m with operating profits up 20% from 18.6m to 22.3m.
The growth in sales was achieved primarily by BTG, a particularly notable performance given that pulp and paper producers did not increase their equipment investments due to relatively subdued end user demand.
Beta LaserMike suffered a year-on-year decline due to exposure to the telecommunications sector but, as a result of decisive management actions, the business was repositioned towards other growing markets.
This realignment included two small The broad balance of end user customers reduces exposure to changes in demand in any single industry.
Electronics Transport Pharmaceuticals & chemicals Pulp & paper Research & development Metals, minerals & mining Other bolt-on acquisitions which were successfully integrated.
Servomex Well-positioned going forward and Loma improved their margins and Loma completed a Spectris has consistently implemented a strategy which has complementary acquisition in January 2004.
Brel & Kjr Vibro resulted in improved competitive positions.
Further migration of suffered disproportionately from adverse exchange rates, but manufacturing and development to lower cost regions and the nevertheless improved its market positions.
Performance at Ircon, speed at which technology is deployed in customers products, Review 2003 one of the smaller companies, was adversely affected by an provide further opportunities to leverage the leadership positions increase in sales and marketing costs aimed at better reaching its gained over a long period.
Currency fluctuations are likely to previous next customer base which is migrating to lower cost regions.
New continue to influence our customers investment decisions, but products and applications also featured in this sector, two good operationally and competitively Spectris is in a good position to examples being a new soft-tipped blade from BTG for high manage in this environment.
Organic sales growth from a strong quality paper coating and remote condition monitoring for wind product portfolio, geographic coverage and the continued drive turbines from Brel & Kjr Vibro.
to improve operating margins remain key priorities going forward.
Contents 3Financial highlights Process technology grew organic sales marginally.
However, 4Focusing on niche applications a full years contribution from PANalytical resulted in overall sales 6Helping customers to meet growth of 31% from 193.3m to 253.9m.
Operating profit global challenges 8 Building customer advantages grew by 9% from 19.9m to 21.7m.
The weakening of the US 10 Chairmans statement dollar affected this sector disproportionately, with operating profit 12 Chief Executives review 16 Board of directors growth at 34% in constant currencies.
At Fusion UV Systems, the Hans Nilsson 18 Financial review year-on-year decline in demand from the telecommunications Chief Executive 20 Directors report sector was a significant feature.
The other technology markets 23 Directors responsibilities 24 Directors remuneration report that Fusion sells into saw orders recover towards the end of the 30 Corporate social responsibility fourth quarter.
34 A better environment Malvern Instruments, which completed a bolt-on acquisition 35 Directory of companies in the fourth quarter, had a solid year whilst Particle Measuring Systems improved profitability over the previous year despite flat demand from its semiconductor markets.
In terms of market penetration, PANalytical had an excellent year and the assimilation into Spectris was completed on schedule.
Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration made good progress and also negotiated a transition to direct sales in Japan, effective from April 2004, with the acquisition of its long-standing distributor.
Examples of new products which have been particularly well received include a range of hand-held sound analysers from Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration, a particle characterisation instrument from Malvern, and a high speed X-ray instrument from PANalytical.
Organic sales growth from a strong product portfolio, geographic coverage and the continued drive to improve operating margins remain key priorities going forward
