Chief Executives Statement Dividend and earnings growth is best achieved through effective Ian Marchant management of established businesses, Chief Executive supplemented, where appropriate, by well-founded investment.
Dividend per share pence We are now in a time of what the regulator, 99 25.7 Ofgem, has described as unparalleled 00 27.5 change for electricity networks.
The major 01 30.0 02 32.4 challenge is to rewire Britain to 03 35.0 accommodate the renewable energy developments planned in response to the As a utility company, Scottish and Southern governments energy and environmental Energy understands its responsibility to policies.
This was confirmed in the Energy deliver consistent, year-on-year increases in White Paper.
It is clear that the most the dividend payable to shareholders, suitable sites for these developments supported by growth in earnings per share.
are mainly in the north and west of the Sustained dividend and earnings growth is country, where SSE owns and operates best achieved through effective management the networks.
of established businesses, supplemented, where appropriate, by well-founded investment.
Ofgem has committed to developing a framework, including adapting existing In line with this, we have consistently set price control arrangements, which will out four areas in which the core strengths provide appropriate investment incentives of our business can be further enhanced in and rewards to enable electricity network the future: companies to meet the demands that will be placed on them.
Major upgrades ofmaintaining and investing in our the electricity network could lead to a resilient electricity transmission and significant increase in our Regulated Asset distribution networks: Base RAB.
adding to our leading-edge generation Against this background, we are portfolio through major investment in undertaking an environmental impact renewable energy: study as the first stage of the likely investment of 200m to rebuild the maingrowing our energy supply business, transmission line between the Highlands which is already one of the largest, and the central belt of Scotland.
It is most efficient and customer-focused welcome that Ofgem has confirmed that in the UK: and it will take account of companies expenditure on work being carried out todeveloping our growing presence prepare the transmission network for the in contracting and new connections, expansion of renewable energy.
telecommunications and, now, gas storage.
Such potential investment opportunities, The delivery of strong performance in each combined with Ofgems commitment to of these areas will underpin future growth ensuring that there are incentives for in the dividend and earnings per share.
the economic and efficient management of costs in the operation of networks, Power Systems mean SSE is well-placed for the SSEs first responsibility remains the forthcoming transmission and distribution provision of a safe and reliable electricity price control reviews.
We have achieved what is generally regarded as world class efficiency in the Generation management of our electricity transmission SSE has an ownership interest in over and distribution networks.
We continue to 7,000MW of generation capacity, secure cost reductions through a clear focus comprising gas-fired, hydro, pumped on streamlined processes, while achieving storage and wind power stations, plus optimal working practices.
This was some island generation.
reflected in our performance in response to the October 2002 storm, which led to SSE being commended as a benchmark company by the government.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Scottish and Southern Energy has the joint highest customer satisfaction among all UK energy suppliers and top quality customer service will remain a key feature of our energy supply offering going forward.
Supply customer numbers million Investment in renewable energy is expected 99 3.28 to be a major driver of value in the next 00 3.62 few years, and the re-statement of 01 4.73 02 4.63 government policy in the White Paper 03 4.85 gives us the confidence to maintain the momentum of our investment programme.
Our gas-fired power stations are among In line with this, we have submitted the most reliable, flexible and thermallyplanning applications for around 250MW efficient in the world.
Nevertheless, they of new wind energy capacity.
have been subject to the impact of low wholesale electricity prices, given that In addition to the existing investment a proportion of their output is sold into programme, a planning application has also wholesale, industrial and commercial been submitted in respect of a new largemarkets.
They are, however, well-placed scale hydro scheme near Loch Ness, which to benefit from higher wholesale prices would be the first of its kind for 40 years.
We have also established a joint venture This challenging market environment with the Weir Group which will invest in caused the downfall of one of our major the development of renewable power energy trading partners, TXU Europe, near generation and control systems, including the end of 2002.
As a result, we have lost new technologies for wave and tidal energy.
the benefit of a profitable contract which will put pressure on future earnings.
We are Supply actively seeking recovery of value from the SSEs energy supply business has been built administration process, but this could take on the portfolio of three strong regional some time.
brands: Southern Electric, SWALEC and Scottish Hydro-Electric.
It is one of the Our gas-fired stations continue to be largest and most efficient in the UK, with well-placed to benefit from the premium nearly five million customers, and each elements of the wholesale markets and brand has retained a higher than average their flexibility also enables them to number of domestic customers in its access premium earnings for peaking traditional area.
capacity and for providing other services in the electricity balancing market.
We have focused on building on these strengths to develop the energy supply Our hydro power stations, now business further.
Since completing the complemented by our first wind farm, full integration of the supply business make SSE the largest generator of at the end of 2001, we have achieved renewable energy in the UK, owning and a net gain of nearly 300,000 customers, operating nearly half of the total capacity.
including many from the industrial and commercial sectors.
This means our energy In the first part of 2002, we started supply business now has more customers a new 450m programme of investment than ever before.
in renewable generation, including refurbishing hydro stations and developing A high standard of customer service is a new renewable energy such as wind farms.
key differentiator in a highly-competitive market such as energy supply.
Towards This was in response to the governments the end of 2002, the leading independent Renewables Obligation, requiring energy survey, by JD Power, confirmed that SSE supply companies to acquire a growing has the joint highest customer satisfaction share of their energy from renewable among all UK energy suppliers, and top sources.
As the government once again quality customer service will remain a emphasised in its Energy White Paper in key feature of our energy supply offering February 2003, the Renewables Obligation going forward.
is designed to incentivise generators to supply progressively higher levels of renewable energy over time by creating a significant premium for this energy.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Statement It is the effective management of our core businesses which will deliver the real and sustained dividend growth to which we are committed in the years ahead.
This commitment to high standards in Our telecommunications business has dealing with customers is further illustrated recently been strengthened by the by the fact that, according to the industry acquisition of Neoscorp Ltd.
The combined watchdog, energywatch, the number of business has almost 7,000km of telecoms customer complaints about SSE is well network throughout Great Britain and has below the industry average.
The number the financial strength and a flexible range of complaints is, however, still too high of services to meet customers needs as the and bringing it down is a key priority market develops and grows.
In contracting, our extensive client base With great support from our staff, we provides a wide range of services, across have also re-shaped our customer service a variety of market sectors, and so is function to take advantage of contacts with well-placed to build on its recent success energy supply customers to promote a more in securing larger and longer contracts, value-added offering.
This includes, for such as the 25-year street lighting contract example, providing low cost white goods for Stoke-on-Trent City Council.
The new through the retail business, new tariff connections business is gaining an enviable packages and loyalty rewards such as Air reputation for providing high quality Miles to energy supply customers, now services to major commercial and industrial supplemented by the introduction of a low customers and is well-placed for cost domestic telephone call charge future growth.
As a result of the efforts of our staff during 2002 03 we doubled the Strategy proportion of new customers gained through The future development of SSE will customer service operations, and will build continue to be based on its core strengths on this success in the future.
and, in particular, on the delivery of solid, sustainable performance in the established Contracting, Connections, operations of generation, supply, power Telecommunications and Gas Storage systems and our other related businesses.
SSE has made an ongoing commitment to developing its non-utility businesses, There are significant investment principally contracting, new connections opportunities in these established and telecommunications.
We are in a businesses, and our financial strength position to pursue further growth through means we are able to pursue those which incremental acquisition of assets which are expected to deliver shareholder value.
may not be particularly large in themselves but which should cumulatively deliver There also remain opportunities in the UK shareholder value.
The purchase of the energy market which can be integrated into Hornsea gas storage business in September existing operations, can create shareholder 2002 shows this.
value and beat the share buy-back benchmark.
This was illustrated by the It enables SSE to benefit from the announcement on 22 May of the possible ownership and management of a major purchase of the Midlands Electricity facility, which comprises 9% of the total distribution business.
There are other UK gas storage capacity.
There is smaller opportunities which we will substantial and ongoing demand for the continue to consider.
Nevertheless, facility, and its importance should increase discipline is the watchword in this area.
further as gas trading arrangements are reformed and as the UK becomes Going forward, it is the effective increasingly dependent on imports of gas.
management of our core businesses which Consequently we have decided to proceed will deliver the real and sustained dividend with the investment of around 120m to growth to which we are committed in the develop a new gas storage facility at years ahead.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2003
