SSL International plc 06 Chief Executives Review Annual Report 2003 In March of this year, we announced our intention to sell the Medical businesses of SSL.
This will allow us to refocus the Group as a successful global consumer business, a business which includes two of the bestknown brands in the world Scholl and Durex.
Our Medical businesses have strong brands and talented people.
However, we believe that a choice is necessary and that on balance the greater expertise and potential in Scholl SSLs case lies with the For Scholl, there is a significant Consumer business.
opportunity to grow the business from where we are today, by The Scholl and Durex brands are building on the brands heritage extremely well placed within the A three-pronged marketing strategy rooted in Dr Scholls expertise in Consumer healthcare markets in is aiming, first and foremost, care of the feet, to make the brand which they compete.
Relative to to capture todays youth 16 24 relevant to todays consumer needs.
some other consumer categories, year-olds recruiting new customers As we have made additional the family planning and footcare as soon as they become sexually investment in R&D, we have an Brian Buchan categories are quite small today active.
Condom users retain brand increasingly healthy new product Chief Executive and require specialist knowledge loyalty as long as the product quality development pipeline.
We have a to be successful.
SSL already has the is exceptional which is the case with number of recent successes with leading share of these categories Durex.
Advertising has to appeal to innovations in the areas of new across our territories as a whole and this group, even if it unsettles older plasters for corns and blisters, new in most individual markets.
Novel marketing ideas footcare implements, toiletries and from a strong position and by being plus innovation in the area of improvements to our Flight Socks focused believe we can deepen our pleasure-enhancing products range.
We will re-establish the clear expertise further and deliver stronger will ensure the brand continues technological edge and passion for growth as a result.
to evolve and attract consumers foot care that initially drove Scholl to use the brand.
to the reputation it enjoys today.
Durex As well as new products, we will The condom category is fraught The second strand of our approach also be working to simplify the with taboos, embarrassment and is to explore ways in which Durex as current, sometimes confusing innuendo and yet it is ultimately a brand can be stretched into other range of products, so that the a category that is dealing with related categories.
For instance, our choice of the right Scholl product incredibly serious issues such as previous disparate lubricants range is clear and obvious.
avoiding unwanted pregnancies is being repositioned as Durex Play.
and helping to avoid the transmission of some of the most serious diseases Thirdly, we recognise the social affecting the world today.
responsibility Durex bears as world leader in condoms.
We continue to develop an active social marketing programme in developing countries, helping to eradicate sexually transmitted diseases, unwanted pregnancies and AIDS.
Besides the immediate support we can give to such government or charitysponsored education and health awareness initiatives, longer-term, it creates awareness of Durex in developing marketplaces.
Chief Executives Review continued SSL International plc 07 Annual Report 2003 Our business systems particularly IT have continued to be streamlined and enhanced.
These systems will ultimately form the basis of sustained cash management improvement We see markedly different in areas such as inventory and development of individual subtrade receivables.
We, together categories within our Scholl range with PeopleSoft, have recently in different geographic markets.
brought online new software Insoles are very well developed modules in the UK business.
This in the UK, deodorants in Germany, change was needed to start the The growth achieved by many of shoes in Thailand.
Capitalising upon process of moving from the large our markets in Durex and Scholl over these differences and working range of legacy systems the Group the past year plus the undoubted to ensure that we bring all areas has inherited.
Once fully bedded potential that remains to be exploited of the business up to best-in-class down our plan over the next two explains our confidence in the future levels provides us with plenty years is to roll-out these new systems as a dedicated global consumer of scope for growth.
SSL is the world authority on condoms and footcare, and While job number one is to develop We are well on the way to achieving we intend to exploit our skills and our crown jewels, SSL has the Group-wide world-class standards heritage to the full.
potential to extend its expertise in environmental and quality in carefully chosen fields.
Our OTC management in our manufacturing Brian Buchan, Chief Executive portfolio will also be developed.
We now have 26 of our 4 June 2003 We are exploring new opportunities sites with ISO 9001 registration and within categories in which we excel, 12 with full ISO 14001 compliance.
such as headlice treatment, analgesics and indigestion remedies.
Training and development As circumstances allow, we will look of employees continues at every to acquisitions to help develop level creating multi-skilled, flexible market share and extend our range workforces in the factories and into new markets.
The sale of the creative, entrepreneurial Medical division will free the people management in every geographical and financial resources needed area of our business.
The sales to pursue these opportunities and marketing initiatives around more aggressively.
the world demonstrate that local market knowledge and awareness Looking beyond our brands, of localised cultures is essential.
we have continued to achieve our Group-wide targets in cost saving.
Our cost base has been reduced by 18 million over the course of the year.
There will inevitably be further significant reorganisation and restructuring ahead as a result of refocusing on the consumer marketplace.
This will give rise 03 13.0 03 70.4 to some understandable anxiety amongst our employees and 02 11.6 02 70.8 our thanks go to them for all their undiminished efforts during these 01 9.3 01 59.9 times.
We are acting to provide certainty where this can be done.
Investment in product development m Investment in advertising and For example, a new management promotion m structure has already been announced and rationalisation is already underway in some other areas.
