Management has been clearly focused on the twin priorities of restructuring Coach USA and securing the new franchise at South West Trains.
I have been particularly pleased at the progress we have made and this will give greater certainty to shareholders.
Chief Executives statement 2003 Management has been clearly focused on the twin priorities of awaiting final approval.
Together with the current one-year restructuring Coach USA and securing the new franchise at South extension, this would result in a franchise for the period until West Trains.
I have been particularly pleased at the progress we February 2007.
This will cement our leading position within the have made and this will give greater certainty to shareholders.
UK rail market and combines the right balance of risk and return for our shareholders.
We are seeing steady performance benefits across the Group as a result of our concentration on operationally led management.
Our Rail division has delivered a strong operating profit for the I believe this has reinvigorated the entrepreneurial approach of year.
At South West Trains, our concentration on driving up management and we are well placed to deliver growth in our operational performance has resulted in significant improvements operations, despite the worldwide economic slowdown.
and we are progressing well with the planned introduction of our new 1bn Desiro train fleet.
At Virgin Rail Group, the business is I am pleased to report that we remain on course to restructure benefiting from the focus on service delivery and significant our Coach USA division and to meet our strategic aims for the investment in new trains.
The replacement of the entire business within the 12 to 18 month timetable we outlined in CrossCountry fleet has been completed with the introduction of December 2002.
We have already announced the disposals of new Virgin Voyagers, while the first of the new state-of-the-art Coach USAs Transit division, New England, West, and South Pendolino trains are also in service.
Central regions and a number of its taxi businesses.
Together, the gross consideration for these amounts to over US$220m.
Network infrastructure difficulties remain a concern, however, and we have implemented a range of measures to mitigate the We intend to retain the North East and North Central regions, effects on our operation as well as working closely with Network which together accounted for around one-third of Coach USAs Rail and the Strategic Rail Authority.
turnover in the year ended 30 April 2003.
We are developing the businesses within the Coach USA portfolio that perform well and Our UK Bus division, the traditional core of the Group, is have predictable revenue streams, as well as reducing our performing well.
We are benefiting from revenue and passenger exposure to charter and leisure-related businesses.
In addition, we growth in provincial towns where we are working in partnership have successfully retained key management and further reduced with forward-looking local authorities.
We have been particularly our corporate and regional overhead base.
Trading at Coach USA, successful in the London market, where we have retained and as we predicted, remains challenging and we have not seen any won a number of tenders.
New tenders and the operation of major improvement in the trading environment.
Nevertheless, additional vehicles on behalf of Transport for London have Coach USA remains cash generative and profitable.
We have added 14.6m in revenue in the year ended 30 April 2003. many strong performing businesses in the residual Coach USA Passenger volumes in London are up 8.8% and we see further portfolio and we are continuing to redeploy existing assets to opportunities for growth following the introduction of maximise asset utilisation and to eliminate unnecessary capital congestion charging earlier this year.
margins for the UK Bus division have risen, despite increases in pension and other labour costs.
We have now agreed financial and commercial terms with the SRA for a new three-year franchise at South West Trains.
The We are taking an industry lead in generating new ideas and deal, which has been recommended to the Department for believe our Kick Start proposal, which is now being taken Transport and the Treasury by the SRA Board, is currently forward by the UK Government, can benefit communities across 6 Brian Souter Chief Executive the country.
The proposal is that the Government sets aside inability to grow profit without very significant investment or funds, which are used to give short-term impetus for the critical mass synergies.
While the outbreak of Severe Acute introduction of new services with the aim that such services Respiratory Syndrome SARS earlier this year continues to would become commercially viable within three years from their impact the profitability of the Hong Kong business, our commencement.
It can deliver more comprehensive bus services, assessment of the sale was based on a long-term view of the reduced road congestion, better value for the taxpayer with profitability and capital requirements of the business and not the important environmental and social inclusion benefits.
As well as immediate trading conditions.
The market for franchised bus bidding for Government funding in this area, we will continue operations is competitive and the purchaser already had an with our own Kick Start programme of investment in buses for interest in a significant franchised bus operation.
The proposed routes identified as having organic growth potential and we are combination will benefit from synergies and economies of scale looking at the development of a number of new products and and this will give a solid platform for the further investment that ideas targeted for growth in the next twelve months.
is required in the Hong Kong franchised bus market.
On that basis, we believe the sale of Citybus was in the best interests of the business and Stagecoach shareholders, and it will allow In New Zealand, where we are the biggest bus operator, our Stagecoach management to continue to deliver our strategy operations have delivered further strong growth.
We continue to as a leading international transport provider.
work in close partnership with national and local government to improve bus services, investing heavily in our operation.
Kick While still early in the new financial year, the Group has started Start pump-priming funding has helped enhance services on key the year well and is trading in line with our expectations.
corridors and bus passenger growth in Auckland has continued to be strong.
In addition, we remain actively interested in running I am delighted with the contribution our people across the globe the suburban rail networks in both Wellington and Auckland.
have made in meeting the challenges of the past year and I would like to thank them and our customers for their continued Under our ownership since 1999, our Hong Kong Citybus support.
I am certain we can deliver better services, more value operation has produced strong organic growth in passenger to shareholders, and continued security for our employees.
volumes and a significant reduction in operating costs.
Following an approach for the business, we reviewed the strategic options for Stagecoach Group in the region.
It was our view that there were limited opportunities to develop significantly elsewhere in other Pacific Rim countries and the long-term prospects for the BRIAN SOUTER business in Hong Kong were uncertain.
A number of factors were Chief Executive assessed in coming to a decision, including the future economic 25 June 2003 climate in Hong Kong, the growing levels of regulation and the 7
