Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 chief executives review Iain Ferguson Chief Executive Group Performance The interim target is to restore Performance of Main Businesses I joined the Group after the year-end the overall Group Return on Net Staley, our American cereal sweetener and the improved financial results and Operating Assets RONOA to at and starch business, achieved margin a much stronger balance sheet reflect least 15%.
We achieved 14.2%, gains in high fructose corn syrup the performance of the management up from 10.5% in the year to HFCS pricing in the 2002 calendar team led by Larry Pillard until the end 31 March 2002 and 8.5% in year and better by-product prices but of December 2002, and then by the year to 31 March 2001. these were offset by lower citric acid Simon Gifford until the end of We have grown the contribution of and ethanol margins.
April 2003. value added and branded products as a percentage of Group profit Staleys citric acid division operated Group profit before tax, exceptional before interest, exceptional items well and benefited from cost reduction items and goodwill amortisation of and goodwill amortisation to 52%, initiatives.
However, these were 228 million was a 69 million 43% exceeding our target of 50%.
unable to keep pace with the improvement on the 159 million for We have accelerated the delivery continuing decline in selling prices the year to 31 March 2002.
Group of benefits from the Amylum due to global oversupply.
Whilst the profit before tax after exceptional integration programme with gross business was profitable for the year, items and goodwill amortisation was benefits this financial year we incurred a trading loss in the 187 million 2002 159 million.
exceeding 35 million against our second half year.
We have taken a target of 20 million.
39 million operating exceptional Net debt has been reduced by strong All businesses have been set a charge primarily for the impairment cash generation to 471 million at target on both economic and of our citric acid assets in the USA 31 March 2003 from 639 million at environmental grounds to reduce and Mexico.
The net debt to Group energy consumption on a per unit will close completely before the end EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, basis by 3% per year.
Overall, of the 2003 calendar year.
depreciation and goodwill amortisation the Group has exceeded this multiple has improved from 2.1 times target in each of the last three Ethanol margins were down, reflecting to 1.4 times and gearing net calendar years.
lower average gasoline prices and borrowings as a percentage of net oversupply as the industry added assets has reduced from 59% to 45%.
Focus on Key Activities new capacity in anticipation of We generated 60 million in proceeds increased demand.
Group Targets from the sale of businesses and The Group set itself a number of assets in the year 2002 137 million There are early signs that the market financial and other targets and has and the programme to dispose of for industrial starches is beginning made significant progress on all of non-core and underperforming to show some signs of recovery.
them in the year to 31 March 2003. businesses is now largely complete.
Speciality food starches were Our target to return interest cover The majority of the proceeds came again resilient.
to 4.0 times from a low of 2.3 from the completion of the sale of times in the year to March 2001 Western Sugar early in the year and has been exceeded with cover at the sale of the North American 6.8 times after excluding unusual molasses and third party liquid interest credits.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Amylum performed well and improved Whilst we believe this issue will be This occurred because although we sales of products with higher margins resolved when the Czech Republic maintained a pattern of continuously offset price reductions in the 2002 accedes to the EU in May 2004, we do reducing the number of recordable calendar year.
Eaststarch, our starch not expect Eastern Sugar to return to and lost time injuries, serious injuries joint venture in Central and Eastern profit in the year to 31 March 2004. in three locations resulted in a higher Europe had a good year, with the four overall severity rate than reported in main plants increasing profitability.
Almex, our Mexican joint venture 2001.
All locations have redoubled corn wet miller, suffered lower profits their efforts to improve our Amylum also benefited from the earlier due to the continued imposition of a performance in this important area.
than expected delivery of savings tax on soft drinks containing HFCS.
resulting from its integration into the A dispute with the Mexican Community Involvement Group.
Benefits exceeded 35 million, Government over import duties Tate & Lyle has operations in more against our target of 20 million, with was satisfactorily resolved.
than 20 countries and we regard our costs of 10 million, in line with the impact on the communities where we target.
Whilst the majority of the net Occidente, our Mexican cane sugar work as being an important measure benefits accrued directly to Amylum, miller, had an improved performance of our performance.
this is a Group-wide initiative and due to increased demand for sugar as some benefits are reported in a result of the same tax on drinks We maintain strong and diverse Tate & Lyle Europe, and in Staley.
community involvement and we work This accelerated progress reflects alongside community partners with an excellent performance by the NAT&L, our cane sugar factory in whom we enjoy shared objectives.
integration team, which is drawn Vietnam, continued to trade profitably It is in our interests to operate in from people throughout the Group.
but was affected by lower domestic strong, safe and healthy communities sugar selling prices.
and if we can help achieve this it The 2003 04 financial year will be improves the quality of life for the final year of the formal integration Sugar trading performed strongly and employees as well as our neighbours.
programme and we are confident had an exceptional year.
I also believe that levels of of reaching our benefits target of commitment and motivation are 50 million per annum.
We also Tate & Lyle Sucralose received the increased if employees hold anticipate integration costs will second annual US$10 million licence Tate & Lyle in high esteem.
payment under the Global Alliance announced in September 2001.
The community involvement policy In the last quarter of the financial year is reviewed annually by the Board.
to 31 March 2003, industry pressures Tate & Lyle Reinsurance, the Groups The programmes are managed locally.
meant that both Staley and Amylum captive reinsurance company, had a were unable to secure margin better year as the prior year included Conclusion increases in sweetener prices for the a charge in respect of exposure to I am delighted to have joined calendar year 2003.
Staley recovered the terrorist attacks in the USA on Tate & Lyle at this important point in higher corn costs and increased 11 September 2001. its development.
Over the last three margins on basic starch and food years, the Group has substantially ingredient products but citric acid Safety improved its cost structure and prices continued to decline.
In Europe, Tate & Lyle believes that no business focused on its core activities.
small pricing gains at Amylum in activity is of such urgency or The programme to dispose of noncertain markets and products such importance that it may be carried out core and underperforming businesses as vital wheat gluten have been in an unsafe manner and our aim is is now largely complete.
offset by price reductions elsewhere.
continually to improve our safety record.
On behalf of the Board, I would like Our cane refineries in the UK and to thank employees around the Group Portugal continued to perform well.
We use a Group Safety Index to for their efforts during the last year Redpath, our Canadian refinery, compare safety performance across that resulted in the improved benefited from both good operations the Tate & Lyle Group.
I look forward to working and a small stock holding gain due highlights good practices and with them and the Board to build on to higher world raw sugar prices.
indicates where further work is this solid platform and to continue the needed.
The Index covers calendar drive for efficiency and growth.
Performance of Other Businesses years and we have a target to reduce Eastern Sugar, our sugar joint it to zero for every Tate & Lyle venture in Central Europe, which operation.
was profitable in the previous year, incurred losses overall.
This was due In 2002, 63% of locations either to the collapse of the sugar regime in repeated or improved on their 2001 the Czech Republic, which caused a safety performance.
However, the significant erosion of sugar selling Group Index for the calendar year Iain Ferguson Chief Executive prices in that country.
2002 rose slightly compared 4 June 2003 with 2001. tateandlyle.
