Making a difference Strength in depth by growing the business In October 2003, we completed the successful acquisition of Wilson Connolly High presence Taylor Woodrow regions Holdings Plc.
True to our strategy of seeking London, Yorkshire and North East, Scotland, West Midlands growth organically or by acquisition, we had identied Wilson Connolly as our preferred High presence former Wilson Connolly regions East Midlands, Eastern, North West, Anglia acquisition due to the complementary land banks and synergies we could extract by Scotland High presence with the combined businesses combining the two businesses.
South, South East, South West Presence is dened as a combination of land banks and completions.
North East Yorkshire Region From 1 January 2004, we are now operating one integrated UK housing business across the UK, through eleven regions which report to three operations directors.
We have no individual development located more than 90 minutes away from a regional ofce.
In general, our sites are North West Region becoming larger and our regions will be responsible for delivering East Midlands Region By combining the two UK housing businesses, we are between 650 and 1,300 completions per region in 2004.
Anglia Region beginning to extract significant synergies.
During 2004, West Midlands Region we expect to realise 12.5 million of synergies which should rise to 25 million by 2005.
These projected The Bryant Homes brand will be strengthened further as a national name synergies are split as follows: Eastern Region in housebuilding through marketing former Wilson Connolly sites under London Region the Bryant banner.
Other South East 3m Region South Region South West Sales and Region Marketing 2m Property 3m Head count 12m Procurement 5m 10 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 11 Making a difference by understanding our customers We are committed to delivering excellent customer service and value.
Our goal is to exceed customer expectations by enhancing quality and adopting a right first time approach.
By developing a closer relationship with our customers we are better equipped to deliver added value and improve our range of products and services.
10 KEY AREAS OF THE CUSTOMERS EXPERIENCE ARE MEASURED BY A CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX IN OUR UK HOUSING BUSINESS We research our customers needs before we start In the UK, we use the Customer Satisfaction Index CSI building to ensure that our product design is targeted to for Bryant Homes, which covers 10 areas of the customers meet their lifestyles.
We have ensured that we have a experience and is measured at varying stages of the robust mechanism for measuring customer satisfaction buying process.
Monthly reports identifying trends are across our business.
collated centrally and communicated to regional staff.
Throughout the home buying process we monitor our In North America, we frequently conduct focus groups to customers feedback, which allows us to understand how ensure our product designs are suitably targeted.
In Spain, we have started to introduce CSI and will be rolling it out across the business in 2004.
12 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 13 Making a difference 1,2.
Modular housing research at the Leighton Buzzard to the way we innovate innovation centre 3.
Space saving interior from the Bryant Design bathroom range 4.
The Bryant Design studio Warwick, UK 5,6.
The latest in home technology from Bryant Design 5.
Since its launch in 2000, Bryant Design has seen During 2003 we strengthened our research and In North America, we have established best practice We continue to explore new and significant growth.
By 2003, customers across 80 per development procedures in order to improve the design, groups in strategic areas, which enable team members cent of our plots, where Bryant Design was offered, construction processes and quality of our housing.
from all regions to share ideas.
Areas that have benefited innovative ways to inspire our customers.
from this programme include: purchasing, customer By using the latest technology and Bryant Design offers our customers in the UK interior service, sales and marketing, health and safety and 2003 80% design and practical options for the home with buyers human resources.
2002 74% materials we are able to develop new spending an average of 2,800.
New additions include 2001 59% garden design packages and state of the art home The North America team is implementing a new integrated building techniques and products and networks including babycams, TV and audio systems.
computer system across its business, that includes 2000 48% financial and cost accounting, purchasing, construction apply these to the market place.
A new Bryant Design service known as Your Choice scheduling, warranty and sales prospect components, will be launched later in 2004 which will allow customers that employs automated workow techniques.
Benets the opportunity to continue to buy from our design include lower overhead costs, improved cycle times and portfolio post purchase.
Equally, our supply chain relationships enable contractor, designer and supplier to Flexible living arrangements have been launched in the UK We are also looking at opportunities to add value to our and a pioneering scheme named Your Space is available customer relationship.
For example, after a successful work together, sharing input into design at the Victoria Park development, Licheld.
It allows trial in Arizona, we are now extending our mortgage buyers to select the oor plan and room conguration of broking business, Taylor Woodrow Mortgage, to all and building of the living and working their new home from 18 different options.
regions in the United States.
This gives us better control of the sales closing process and is expected to create environments our customers demand.
A new concept in off-site residential manufacture has additional revenues.
been tested at our innovation centre in the UK and will shortly be trialed at a housing development in Manchester.
This approach could deliver a more efficient and reliable form of construction that will also improve the interior layout of kitchens and bathrooms using modular frames engineered to maximise space and reduce snagging.
14 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 15 Making a difference by planning for the future We are helping to create mixed and inclusive We are the first private housebuilder to pilot working Imaginative community planning is a developments, including the provision of affordable directly with a local authority in this initiative offering 36 pre-requisite of large scale housing housing where required.
We are proud to have built a homes for teachers at our Bryant Homes development at reputation for both quality and innovation in the provision Bishops Mead in Chelmer, Cambridgeshire.
Our in-house expertise puts and delivery of affordable homes and we have a range of Homes apartments are also being offered as part of a bespoke social house types that meet The Housing similar initiative to key workers at New Road, Solihull, us in a great position to deliver a diverse Corporations Scheme Development Standards, as West Midlands.
Our integrated approach: In North America, we are unusual in having considerable Through our Strategic Partnering relationships with major expertise in land development, which gives us more combining skills in construction, housing associations in the UK we have delivered new control over our supply of land and over the quality of the homes for key workers: for example, through the Starter communities that we develop.
We define quality in terms engineering, residential and commercial Home Initiative at Wallington in Sutton.
We have also of the environment and lifestyle, as well as construction property enables us to offer solutions delivered 40 key worker homes at our Bryant Homes quality.
For example, at Waterchase, in Tampa, we felt that development in Cambourne, Cambridgeshire.
preserving a natural landscape was important to the for browneld and complex mixed-use quality of life in the community.
We invested over Working with the Sutherland Housing Association, we $500,000 to preserve more than 225 oak trees, which developments.
have delivered 30 new one-bedroom Bryant Homes were transplanted to an intensive-care nursery where apartments for key workers at our Grand Union Village they were treated and carefully monitored for a 14-month GUV development in West London.
period before being replanted throughout the community.
In 2003, these efforts were recognised through the award A 54 acre browneld regeneration scheme, GUV will of a National Arbor Day Foundation Award of Excellence.
provide a total of 700 apartments and houses together with ofces, retail and leisure outlets set alongside the Grand Union Canal.
AT OUR FORMER ON CONS THE SITE OF OUR FORMER TRUCTION HEADQU HEADQUAR ARTER TERS IN S IN SOUTHALL, SOUTHALL, WES WEST L T LONDON, ONDON, WE WE ARE BUILDING O ARE BUILDING OVER 70 VER 700 0 APARTMENTS AND ECO HOMES TOGETHER WITH HOMES TOGETHER WITH OFFICES, RETAIL AND OFFICES, RETAIL AND LEISURE OUTLETS.
LEISURE OUTLETS SET 35% OF HOMES BUILT WILL ALONGSIDE THE GRAND BE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
OVERALL 35% OF ALL NEW HOMES BUILT AT THIS DEVELOPMENT WILL BE 1.
Glasgow Harbour Part of a 500 million consortium scheme with Cala and Park Lane to regenerate the banks of the River Clyde in the heart of the City.
The project will transform a 94 acre derelict site into a thriving location for business and residential use.
Our first two releases, each of 50 apartments, both sold out within a day.
16 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2003 17
