Letter from the CEO I am proud to announce Autonomy's continued strong performance in 2003 despite adverse world events and a tough economic climate which has damaged many players in the global IT industry.
Autonomy's sustained success is sound testament to an efficient, highly-geared business model and continued stability coupled with our ability to offer our customers compelling technology and demonstrable ROI.
In 2003, Autonomy: Announced its fourth consecutive year of profitability Reported increased revenues Increased earnings per share by 20% from 2002 Dominated the OEM space with almost all major new product deals won Acquired Virage, a leading provider of video and rich media communication software Launched two new divisions: Audentify for contact center management, and Aungate for compliance and litigation support Increased research and development spend by 29% over 2002 Established its office in Beijing with key first wins Finished the year with a strong balance sheet: over $100 million in cash after cumulative share buyback in 2002 and 2003 of approximately $44 million and purchase of Virage in 2003 for approximately $13 million net.
Today, Autonomy is reaping the benefits of a horizontally applicable, scalable and award-winning technology with a strong network of 130 partner organizations, serving a blue-chip customer base of more than 1,000 organizations.
Autonomy's profits and increasing headcount have distinguished the company from its competitors and provided a solid foundation from which to take advantage of future improvements in the marketplace.
As always, Autonomy's position is underpinned by its unique value proposition: to provide the software infrastructure that automates operations on unstructured information.
Autonomy empowers organizations to understand and capitalize on the information that really matters to their business by enabling computers to process human-friendly unstructured information such as text documents, emails, voice and video, without the need for manual intervention.
All organizations need to make the most of their assets both in terms of information and expertise: Autonomy enables our customers to automate the processes of managing information and realize their potential.
A Au ut to on no om my y i is s a a v five en nd do or r t to o w wa at tc ch h because of its good technology approach, market reach and estimated viability.
Alexander Linden, Gartner Group, Technology Update: Automatic Text Categorization Letter from the CEO 03 A Fundamental Change in Corporate Thinking During 2003 we'five noticed a fundamental change in corporate thinking as large organizations respond to the challenges of recent years by implementing comprehensive systems that can adapt to their changing business practices and ever increasing volumes of unstructured information.
As communications standards shift from email to instant messaging to video messaging, companies now appreciate the value of content irrespective of format and source and recognize the need to harness its value on a global basis.
Leading organizations are now realizing that the strategy for handling this information is as fundamental as their decisions about the database.
Just as theyve made a decision to standardize on Oracle or SAP, companies now must standardize the handling of unstructured information, and are choosing Autonomy to do it.
In this regard, Im pleased to note that companies such as AstraZeneca, Philips and Shell have all chosen Autonomy as their standard.
This year also saw major software companies realize that their products must also handle unstructured information, and have turned to Autonomy for it.
Throughout the year, Autonomy continued to show its dominance in the OEM market, which provides a stable stream of revenue and enables the company to penetrate a wide range of rapidly growing software markets.
During the year Autonomy won virtually all new major OEM product opportunities in the sector, with new and expanded relationships with Novell, Veritas, EDS, Computer Associates, SupportSoft, Vignette and BEA, amongst others.
Our considerable investments in research and development continued throughout 2003 with R&D up 29% from 2002 and up a staggering 82% since 2000.
The results of these investments can be seen in the launch of two new divisions: Aungate and Audentify.
Founded on Autonomy's unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer IDOL, our core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured and structured information, Aungate offers the world's first automated solution for enterprise compliance and litigation support by providing a technology platform to power real-time analysis of telephone calls, emails and instant messages.
Autonomy's launch of Audentify extends the benefits of Autonomy to all aspects of contact center operations.
Audentify delivers a total solution for the contact center environment, from 100% call recording, storage and call analytics, to real-time agent assistance and e-learning solutions.
"Finally, in September 2003 we acquired Virage, a ""Through using Autonomy, iBio has created a new kind of partnership in joined-up government - one powered by technology rather than through human interaction."
"In information sharing partnerships of this sort, A Au ut to on no om my y a al ll lo ow ws s u us s t to o c cr re ea at te e a an n i in nf fo or rm ma at ti io on n i in nf fr ra as st tr ru uc ct tu ur re e that allows multiple repositories of information to come together in a virtual, joined up partnership. """
Mark Philips, Project Director, i-BIO 04 Letter from the CEO Autonomy is well positioned for the future leading provider of video and rich media software, and have powered the Virage products with IDOL.
"The transaction was applauded by independent analysts such as AMR Research who stated that ""[Autonomy is] a company that never fails to impress us with its own innovation"" and that ""Virage gives [Autonomy] a bigger stake in an emerging market opportunity. """
The business value of Autonomy's infrastructure technology and its demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our firm average selling price of $360,000.
Autonomy has never been affected by the dramatic pricing pressures seen by so many other software companies.
Profit and cash generation are the acid tests of any business success story.
As the enclosed accounts reveal, Autonomy's leading technology and lean, highly geared business model, have once again ensured that we ended the year in a strong financial position.
Our technology focused business consistently delivers gross margins above 94%, which with our relatively fixed cost base leads to significantly increased profits with increasing revenue.
We saw this most dramatically in late 2003 with operating margins up sharply.
As a result, in contrast to other companies that have been forced to make large lay-offs, particularly in the key area of research and development, Autonomy avoided lay-offs and reported significant increases in R&D spend.
Autonomy has been steadily adding to its resources, keen to capitalize on opportunities to increase the company's potential.
Autonomy is well positioned for the future.
I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, employees and partners for their continued support.
Those who merely respond to the challenges of a changing business environment will just survive: those who anticipate untold challenges and innovate for the future will be its champions.
Dr Mike Lynch, CEO and Co-Founder April 14, 2004 A Au ut to on no om my y i is s a ah he ea ad d o of f t th he e m ma ar rk ke et t - while most of us continue to dig deeper into the technology pit, only giving scant thought to the information and data we are A Au ut to on no om my y i is s p pi io on ne ee er ri in ng g t te ec ch hn no ol lo og gi ie es s processing, that extract information from the data and technology resources we have invested so much time and energy in.
Martin Butler, Butler Group Letter from the CEO 05 Human friendly digital information such as text, emails, voice and video now represents 80% of the information generated and held within enterprises
