CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT profitable growth in sales: increasing the cash margin: and investing where we can earn an after tax return in excess of our weighted average cost of capital.
All our businesses recognise the need for growth and are pursuing strategies aimed at maximising their potential.
We have previously outlined our plans to develop three of our business areas where we see the greatest potential for long term growth in value: the automotive powertrain, the industrial and automotive aftermarket and Air Systems Components.
ALL OUR BUSINESSES RECOGNISE THE NEED Automotive powertrain The automotive powertrain, which consists FOR GROWTH AND ARE PURSUING STRATEGIES of the engine, transmission and related AIMED AT MAXIMISING THEIR POTENTIAL.
accessories, is currently a $150 billion JAMES NICOL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE global market, of which only approximately $30 billion or 20 per cent is currently outsourced by automotive original During 2003 we have made considerable equipment manufacturers AOEs to progress in a number of areas: third party suppliers like Tomkins.
This We outperformed most of our compares with around 60 per cent for the principal markets.
We continued our investment in The AOEs are seeking to reduce their manufacturing excellence through our cost base by outsourcing more of the powertrain and are embracing new programme of strategic manufacturing technologies and production techniques initiatives and lean manufacturing.
that are being developed by suppliers.
We initiated further investment in Asia At the same time, global automotive and China, building on our global reach.
production is increasing and the overall We acquired Stackpole to enhance value of the powertrain is rising due to further our position in the rapidly ever stricter emission regulations and growing outsourced market for consumer demands for performance automotive powertrain systems and and economy.
These factors combine to components and have since invested create a significant increase in the size to expand capacity to meet the of the market for outsourced powertrain growing demand in that business.
Through Gates and our recent acquisition of Stackpole, We continued to encourage the Tomkins is already a major player in this development of an entrepreneurial market and we intend to participate culture with a focus on growth in value.
fully in this future growth.
We progressed the disposals of non-core businesses.
Industrial and automotive aftermarket The Group already has a significant We achieved underlying growth position in the North American industrial in sales and operating profit.
and automotive aftermarket, supplying Our principal objective must be to products such as accessory drive and achieve long term sustainable growth synchronous belts, tensioners, wipers, highin the economic value of Tomkins through pressure hydraulic hoses and connectors strategic development of our businesses.
We are Through effective communication to building upon this strength by increasing the financial markets, this translates sales of new products, adding products into growth in equity value for our manufactured by third parties and further shareholders.
We describe Managing developing our rapidly growing presence for Value on page 18. in Europe and Asia.
We see the main drivers for growth Air Systems Components in the intrinsic value as: Our Air Systems Components businesses improving our competitive advantage are already the US market leaders in air through technology and innovation: handling products for the commercial and TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued residential markets.
As well as participating of shareholders.
The new scheme bases in the anticipated recovery in the US managers bonuses upon a percentage of commercial and industrial construction Bonusable profit, which is based upon market, we are seeking to make bolt-on their businesses operating profit, less tax, acquisitions that add new products or and a charge for the capital invested in markets to our existing US businesses.
their businesses based upon the Groups We intend to expand internationally, weighted average cost of capital.
This particularly in Asia where we are in moves individual managers focus from discussions with a major US customer performance measurement against an on a co-operative marketing effort.
arbitrary annual budget to the absolute performance of their business and year Our five pervasive themes that Senior Management Team from left to right.
Salaries are xed encapsulate the drivers that I believe David Carroll, Executive Vice President: Ken Lever, in real terms and bonuses will only rise will lead to growth in economic value are: Finance Director: James Nicol, Chief Executive: if absolute performance improves.
The Terry OHalloran, President Air Systems Building an entrepreneurial culture scheme included around 30 senior Components: Malcolm Swain, Vice President We have introduced a new management managers during 2003 and has been Special Projects: John Zimmerman, Vice President, incentive scheme that more closely aligns extended to approximately 50 additional Corporate Development: and Richard Bell, President, The Gates Corporation.
the interests of management with those individuals for 2004.
4 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 through strategic manufacturing initiatives SALES TO END MARKETS SMIs, which address the location of manufacturing activities and lean North America automotive original equipment 15% manufacturing, which makes the 12% RoW automotive original equipment manufacturing processes more efficient.
We are reaching the end of a three-year 13% North America automotive aftermarket programme of SMIs, having accelerated a 6% RoW automotive aftermarket number of projects during 2003.
Since the start of the programme, we have 14% Residential construction consolidated facilities, moving production to optimal locations.
Projects undertaken 11% Commercial & industrial construction during 2003 were the closure of the 10% Industrial original equipment Elizabethtown, Kentucky transmission belt plant and the transfer of its production to 10% Industrial aftermarket other US plants, the relocation of hose production from two plants in the USA to 5% Industrial utility a plant in Cohisa, Mexico and the second 2% Manufactured housing phase of the reorganisation of our Wiper Systems operations in Europe, 2% Recreational vehicles following the recently completed closure of the Dunstable plant in the UK.
People development is key to achieving our The overall investment of around 200 goals and therefore we have initiated the million in operating costs and capital Tomkins College, in conjunction with the expenditure during the past three years University of Indiana in the USA.
The has resulted in annual cost savings of College will focus upon ensuring that all the order of 50 million.
our management teams have the necessary A significant exercise for the staged and most up-to-date skill sets to enable implementation of lean manufacturing is them to optimise their own and their taking place across all our facilities.
2003, we estimate that we have saved around 25 million in operating costs Developing innovative products and these savings are in addition to the All our businesses realise that product significant benets arising from reduced innovation is key to maintaining the inventory levels, the release of competitive advantage that allows them manufacturing space and the freeing to grow their businesses.
Progress in this up of machine capacity.
area is monitored closely on a quarterly Expanding our global position basis.
Examples include the following: Some developing countries such as China In Industrial & Automotive, the are expected to experience growth rates electromechanical drive stop-start during this decade well above those technology using our patented belts achievable in the developed world.
For and tensioners goes into production example, China is expected to become the this year with a major European car third largest car manufacturer in 2005, manufacturer.
This has also attracted overtaking countries such as Germany and considerable interest from other South Korea.
We already lead the Chinese manufacturers across the world.
market for transmission belts and, together In Air Systems Components, Laus with our partner, we are making a 50 proprietary PropSound software helps million investment over the next three fan designers to minimise noise, placing years to create a second production plant.
us at the leading edge of this increasingly Commercial construction in China will grow important point of differentiation in the signicantly, driven in part by the Olympic commercial and industrial market.
Games in Beijing in 2008, and our Air In Engineered & Construction Products, Systems Components businesses are Dexter Axle has had great success with working to establish a larger presence in its electro-hydraulic actuator, which this market.
Several of our other businesses signicantly improves trailer braking are seeking expansion in Asia, both as a distances and reduces the risk of market for their products and as a lower jack-kning.
Achieving manufacturing excellence Making value-creating acquisitions Our aim is to be the lowest cost producer Our financial strength enables us to supplement organic growth with of quality products through excellence in manufacturing.
We will achieve this acquisitions in our areas of business focus.
TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued Stackpole, which brought us expertise in powder metal and engineered components FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2002 INDUSTRIAL & for powertrain, is an example of what pro forma AUTOMOTIVE unaudited we look for when assessing acquisitions, namely, the ability to achieve double Sales 1,977.2m 1,948.7m digit growth and double digit margins, 1 Operating profit 189.9m 181.6m proprietary technology, good management and, above all, the ability to create value.
1 Operating margin 9.6% 9.3% We continue to look to make further 2 Average net operating assets 784.6m 784.5m acquisitions in Powertrain, Air Systems 1 Components and Aftermarket.
Return on average net operating assets 24.2% 23.1% 3 Return on average invested capital 8.9% 8.6% Market outlook Overall, our main markets are expected Capital expenditure 111.0m 119.0m to show some improvements in 2004.
Depreciation 90.7m 85.6m The global industrial and automotive aftermarket, our most profitable market 4 Cash generation 156.0m 241.9m around 29 per cent of Group sales, is Employees 23,692 20,990 expected to show further modest growth in 2004 but we expect to outperform that market through new product introductions and geographical expansion.
According to CSM, a leading industry FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2002 AIR SYSTEMS forecaster, the global automotive original pro forma COMPONENTS unaudited equipment market around 27 per cent of Group sales is expected to grow in 2004 Sales 447.9m 500.4m by 4.7 per cent to 59.3 million units, with 1 Operating profit 42.3m 50.9m modest growth in North America and 1 Europe and 16 per cent growth in Asia.
Operating margin 9.4% 10.2% The US commercial construction market 2 Average net operating assets 120.4m 139.3m around 11 per cent of Group sales has 1 experienced a significant decline since its Return on average net operating assets 35.1% 36.5% peak in 2000 but is forecast to grow by 3 Return on average invested capital 9.9% 11.2% around 2 per cent in 2004.
The US residential construction market Capital expenditure 8.6m 14.2m around 14 per cent of Group sales, which Depreciation 16.2m 19.1m measured by new housing starts grew by 4 8.4 per cent in 2003, is forecast by the Cash generation 55.4m 66.9m National Association of Home Builders to Employees 6,933 6,427 show a modest decline of 3.2 per cent in 2004 but will remain at what are historically high levels.
The actions that we have taken will ensure that we will be a much better FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS 2003 2002 ENGINEERED & company in 2004 than we were last year.
If pro forma CONSTRUCTION unaudited our markets perform as forecast, our ability PRODUCTS to outperform our competitors should Sales 725.3m 796.3m ensure that we achieve good underlying 1 Operating profit 63.6m 72.4m growth in performance during 2004.
1 Operating margin 8.8% 9.1% 2 Average net operating assets 177.5m 224.0m 1 Return on average net operating assets 35.8% 32.3% JAMES NICOL 3 Return on average invested capital 14.0% 13.7% CHIEF EXECUTIVE Capital expenditure 20.7m 19.6m Depreciation 21.4m 24.1m 1 Before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation see page 82 and the Financial review.
3 Before operating exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Employees 8,638 9,161 and after tax excluding the exceptional tax release, on a constant currency basis.
4 Net cash inow from operating activities less net cash outow from capital expenditure, before the impact of operating exceptional items.
