Chief Executives statement During 2003 we have implemented numerous changes to improve performance of the Group and the results demonstrate that we are already seeing signs of this despite the challenging market conditions.
Most importantly 2003 has also been a year during which we have shown that it is possible to set stretching goals and to achieve them.
Put simply it has been a year in which Trinity Mirror has been engaged in the Art of the Possible.
In February we commenced a review of the Group with the objective of identifying the actions required to deliver significantly improved performance and enhanced shareholder value.
The review considered all options open to the Group.
In July 2003 we announced the preliminary findings of the review.
The review confirmed the potential for improving performance and creating shareholder value by running Trinity Mirror more effectively as a group of publishing businesses.
Weve asked customers what they want from our brands, and responded with new and revitalised products.
It was clear we needed to concentrate on the core job of publishing and to manage our newspapers actively as a portfolio of titles.
To this end, we have focused sharply on the management of our brands.
Weve looked at how we position them, how we support them and how we market them.
Weve investigated how they interact, how we invest in them and how to improve them.
In pursuit of the gold standard across all of our products and services, we committed ourselves to a greater focus on creativity and innovation across the Group.
We promised regular consumer research to drive new insights and inform changes to our brands and content, and better targeted marketing.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 10 11 Weve asked customers what they want from our brands, The first phase of the programme is designed to stabilise and responded with new and revitalised products.
Weve also performance and ensure a robust platform for the future.
Clear identified brands that arent working or dont fit the portfolio, strategies are now in place across all of the Groups businesses.
and made some tough decisions.
Structures have been reviewed and where appropriate changed to ensure delivery of objectives.
Management changes have As a first step we were determined to lay a firm foundation ensured we have the right people, with the right skills, in the right in terms of this years performance, principally through a jobs, doing the right things.
combination of tighter cost management and a more focused publishing approach.
This is already evident in the 2003 results In the second and overlapping phase we are focused on which deliver an 11.5% improvement in group operating profits revitalising our products and services, and on redesigning internal despite challenging market conditions which contributed to processes and ways of working to become a more agile and revenues only growing by 1.2%.
A greater focus on creativity and innovation, coupled with regular consumer research, will drive new insights Secondly, it was important that we provided guidance on some and inform changes to brands and content.
Better targeted specific performance and shareholder value enhancing objectives.
marketing, and the strengthening of advertising sales capability, The key objectives announced in July 2003 were: will assist in driving top-line revenue growth.
25 million net of re-investment annualised cost savings in 2005.
4 million in 2003 and an incremental 16 million in 2004 Pursuing the opportunities identified in the first two phases will the disposal of our titles in Ireland create the momentum, financial headroom and the organisational a policy to increase dividends progressively capability to access and drive value through longer-term growth and a commitment to reduce debt.
Against those objectives we have achieved: This performance-based strategy will deliver enhanced earnings 5.0 million net savings in 2003, and as a result I am confident and margins.
It will deliver better performance from individual we are able to increase the targeted incremental savings in brands and businesses whilst increasing the value of the Group 2004 to 18.0 million with annualised net savings in 2005 as a whole by capturing the full benefits of scale, sharing of best increased to 30.0 million.
Staff numbers were reduced by practice and ensuring that the right level of focus, performance 314 in delivery of these savings measures and incentives are in place.
I am pleased to report that the disposal of our regional newspaper titles in Ireland was significant progress has been made during the year through the completed on 15 January 2004 achieving gross sale proceeds Stabilise and Revitalise phases.
of 46.3 million the final dividend has been increased by 4.1%, bringing the We began by clearly defining the role of the Corporate centre, total dividend for the year to 18.3 pence whilst at the same time improving communication across the our cash flows have improved, with net debt falling by 61.0 Group to ensure that the goals and objectives of the businesses million to 605.1 million.
Actions already taken include: through the Executive Committee, the Corporate centre is For our two major divisions the review highlighted that: playing a greater role in the setting of strategies and budgets the Regionals businesses are strong with robust, market for operating businesses.
The Committee meets weekly in leading positions in many of the UKs most important order to drive momentum, and to track performance, progress, metropolitan markets.
The from Biggest to Best initiative has issues and challenges delivered an improved performance.
However, the division has a central fund has been created to finance innovation across significant scope for further improvement in revenue, profit and the Group.
Guidance and support from the centre will ensure margin, to be achieved through tighter and more focused that the best revenue growth opportunities are receiving management and an acceleration in the pace of change appropriate funding and management focus the National titles remain very large consumer franchises.
a Capex Committee has been established to co-ordinate and However, it was clear that the division must focus on manage centrally the Groups capital investment programme to strengthening its core publishing skills, and developing a maximise return on all investment greater understanding of its customers, both readers and to ensure that the full value of Trinity Mirrors scale is captured a advertisers.
Clarity of publishing strategy across the Nationals number of centrally co-ordinated projects have commenced.
portfolio, coupled with improvements to product content and These include the review of manufacturing, supply chain, quality, marketing, availability through the supply chain and ad procurement, content creation sharing and advertising sales sales were each identified as key levers to an improved the management of the Finance, HR and IT functions has been performance of both the top and bottom line.
The benefits of this are clear leadership from the centre and higher quality service at lower cost, allowing the The review confirmed that with changes to the organisation and businesses to focus fully on driving publishing activities management of the business, the value of the Group as a whole a small strategic development team has been created to begin is greater than the sum of its constituent parts.
To deliver the exploring the longer-term growth options and routes that may required transformation an overlapping three-phase performance lie open to the Group.
improving strategy: Stabilise Revitalise Grow was implemented across the Group.
On a like for like, pre exceptional items basis as defined in footnotes 1 and 2 on page 14.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 12 13 During 2003 we have focused on the management of our In our Nationals business the senior management team of the portfolio, developing clear market positions for our titles and division has been substantially restructured with a number of key differentiating our products in the eyes of our customers.
Numerous changes have been made practical terms it means we have made clear distinctions between to improve performance through better publishing of core products newspapers we own which compete in the same marketplace: and tighter management of the cost base.
As a result of these we have ended the price discounting strategy for the Daily Mirror actions we expect to see an improvement in both circulation and and we have stopped the price competition between our titles in advertising performance during 2004.
The rigorous management of our portfolio has led to a better understanding of the needs and requirements of our The Groups Sports titles have sustained and strengthened their readers through a continuous process of research.
market leading positions in the growing market for horseracing and sports betting.
Changes have been made in working practices to For the Regionals division, a more focused approach on margin seven day publishing to accommodate more Sunday racing.
has significantly accelerated the pace of performance improving initiatives.
This, coupled with a more aggressive approach to The Magazines and Exhibitions division has continued its programme increasing cover prices, has contributed to an improved of restructuring the portfolio to improve overall performance of the performance in 2003. core products whilst looking to divest or close non-core loss-making activities.
Arrow Interactive is being repositioned as a vehicle for primarily servicing the needs of the Group.
We feel this repositioning will better drive revenue opportunities across our titles.
In short, we will not allow ourselves to be out-published by our competitors.
The specific benefits of closer co-operation between our brands have become obvious and for the first time our constituent parts Nationals and Regionals, Sports and Digital, Magazines and Exhibitions are operating as a Group.
In November 2003 we held the first Groupwide senior management conference attended by our top 55 senior managers.
The agenda focused on the practical application of our strategy.
We plan to meet again in May 2004 in order to drive momentum and explore new initiatives together.
We said we would take a more focused publishing approach, and this is precisely what we have done.
Having restructured the senior management team and reinvigorated the focus and direction of the Group through the performance based strategy Stabilise Revitalise Grow, in 2004 we will build on the achievements of 2003 and continue to drive further improved performance.
