12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 8 Chief Executives Report Tullow continued to develop and evolve its strategy during 2003, focusing on building strong and secure cash flow from low risk production acreage while applying discretionary funds to exploration territories with high potential.
Since year end, we have further broadened our focus and strategy via the proposed acquisition of Energy Africa Limited, which has extensive operations in West Africa and the UK.
During the year Tullow completed two major developments, drilled six exploration wells and was awarded six new licences, while the Groups production increased to over 25,000 boepd.
UK OFFSHORE Tullows net UK gas sales averaged 120 mmscfd during 2003, an increase of 20% over the previous year.
This performance was driven by the ongoing success of the CMS III project, where production commenced from the McAdam and Watt gas fields in April and November respectively.
The fifth and final field in the CMS III development programme, Boulton H1, came on stream in March 2004 at a gross rate of 125 mmscfd.
CMS III has been a major success for the consortium and represents a clear template for future development of smaller gas accumulations using existing infrastructure.
In October the company completed a deal with ConocoPhillips, which resulted in Tullow increasing its interest in, and assuming operatorship of, the Hewett Unit and the onshore Bacton Gas Terminal.
Bacton is a strategic site for Tullow and for the UK gas market as a whole.
This transaction gives Tullow the ability to take the lead in securing third party business, undertaking cost reduction initiatives and progressing potential gas storage projects in the Hewett area.
In November Tullow acquired additional equity in the Thames gas fields from Eni.
While UK exploration performance was mixed in 2003, the recently announced Monroe discovery was most encouraging and Tullow intends to maintain an active exploration programme in the UK.
The Company was awarded five blocks in the 21st Offshore Licensing Round.
The awards comprise operatorship and interests in three Central North Sea blocks, close to existing production infrastructure, and interests in two SNS blocks - 44 19, which lies close to the Caister Murdoch infrastructure, and 49 30b, which contains an extension of the Fizzy gas discovery.
WEST AFRICA Cte dIvoire The Espoir field and the CI-26 licence area continue to add value to Tullow.
In May the Company announced a 8 Tullow Oil plc Chief Executives Report 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 9 During 2003 Tullow completed two major developments, drilled six exploration wells and was awarded six new licences, while Group production increased to over 25,000 boepd.
The proposed acquisition of Energy Africa will expand our core areas in West Africa and the UK and increase production to over 50,000 boepd.
significant oil discovery on the Acajou prospect, southeast of Espoir, confirming the hydrocarbon potential of the surrounding area.
A further well will be drilled on the northern portion of the structure during 2004, following which development options will be assessed.
In September the drilling phase of the East Espoir Development completed, resulting in increased gross production from the Espoir complex to over 25,000 boepd.
The field co-venturers agreed the West Espoir Development plan in October 2003, and the award of contracts is imminent.
When complete, this project will increase Espoir gross oil production by 10,000 bopd and bring gross gas sales to 35 mmscfd.
Gabon In March Tullow signed a Production Sharing Contract with the Gabonese Government for the Kiarsseny Marin Area.
Since the award, Tullow has brought new partners into the licence - including the Angolan national oil and gas company, Sonangol P&P, in their first international venture - and drilled its first well on the Topaze South prospect.
While the result of the well was disappointing, this remains a highly prospective block with a number of material exploration plays and a further well may be considered during 2004.
The proposed acquisition of Energy Africa and related acquisition of 50% of Energy Africa Holdings Gabon strengthens Tullows commitment to developing a long-term business in Gabon over the coming years.
Cameroon During 2003 a detailed technical review of the existing discoveries and prospectivity of the Ngosso licence was undertaken.
Delineation seismic is currently planned for 2004.
9 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:44 PM Page 10 Chief Executives Report continued SOUTH ASIA Pakistan Production continued in Pakistan at a lower level due to the watering out of the Sara-1 well.
Workovers during the year have restored gross production to 20 mmscfd.
In the last quarter of 2003 Tullow completed a 3D seismic survey to delineate potential development and exploration well locations.
Bangladesh Exploration activities in Bangladesh during 2003 centred on seismic interpretation and the identification and preparation of well locations within Block 9.
Drilling operations commenced in December with the first well of a three well programme.
This well, on the Rasulpur structure, was unsuccessful.
A second well, on the Lalmai prospect, spudded in March 2004 and reached total depth on 25th April.
The well encountered a number of potentially gas-bearing zones which are now being production tested.
India Activity in India during 2003 was limited.
A well on the GK-OSJ-1 licence, in respect of which Tullow had a full carry, was drilled in March.
The well was unsuccessful and, following detailed analysis, the block was relinquished at year end.
A further licence covering Block KG-ON-1 was also surrendered in August.
Attention has now shifted to the highly prospective CB-ON-1 block, which lies directly on trend with recent significant oil discoveries.
INCREASED FOCUS ON CORE AREAS In April Tullow sold its interest in the West Firsby oil field in Lincolnshire to Europa Oil & Gas and in October completed the $8.3 million sale of its remaining onshore UK properties to Viking Petroleum.
These disposals, along with the recent farmout of part of Tullows Romanian interests, and the Companys withdrawal from Algeria, are intended to allow the Group to focus on its core investment areas of UK Offshore, West Africa and South Asia.
Our recent announcements relating to Energy Africa accentuate this focus.
Aidan Heavey Chief Executive 4th May 2004 10 Tullow Oil plc Chief Executives Report
