1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 6 04 VT Group Annual Report 2003 The business is in good shape and I Chief executives review believe can continue to produce double digit growth in profit before tax this year and in the foreseeable future.
Having completed my first nine months as There is always room to improve and we Chief Executive, I am very pleased to report have identied a number of key performance improvement targets to help us achieve this: a strong performance from the company.
Cash Obviously much of the performance must As can be seen from the results, operating be attributed to Martin Jay as a result of his cash generation pre exceptional items at 57m has been particularly strong.
We stewardship of VT Group until July 2002. have embarked on an investment in the new Portsmouth Shipbuilding Facility 50m together with a number of PFI and Public Private Partnership PPP projects 80m.
These projects will deliver substantial long term benets but we need to generate cash and borrow funds now to create the project vehicles.
During 2003 04 a continued focus on cash management will help provide the working capital that is needed to fund our growth.
Procurement We have typically spent 350m annually with 22,000 suppliers.
During 2002 03 we have already reduced this number to 8,000 and hence improved our purchasing power considerably.
We are in the process of establishing around 1,000 preferred suppliers who will provide over 60% of our requirements.
Close relationships with these suppliers will result in reduced product and service purchase costs as well as administration costs.
We have set an internal goal of saving 10m in total over the next three years by improving our supply chain management.
Information Technology IT IT is the glue that keeps our business performing.
We currently spend around 7.5m per annum, which is typical for a business of our size.
However, as a result of a number of acquisitions we now have a diversity of hardware and software.
We have Paul Lester Chief Executive 1423 VT front art 03 06 9 6 03 2:19 pm Page 7 VT Group Annual Report 2003 05 appointed a chief information officer who in a position as one of the largest private two to three years from the initial tender up has already identied a number of areas for providers of education services to the to contract implementation.
It is unlikely that we will Department for Education and Skills.
Also, need to manage our bid costs carefully as reduce our level of expenditure, but will in the USA, VT Grifn has continued to well as being very selective in terms of what focus on improving the delivery of our grow and is now a well established leading we should bid for.
Nevertheless the projects products and services to our customers.
provider of facilities management for the mentioned are all potentially multi billion Department of Defense.
pound contracts and represent a real We also have the basis of a knowledge opportunity for VT and our partners.
management system which will enable best Looking ahead, we have a number of practice to be shared through the group.
The commencement The defence market in the USA is the This is particularly important for our Support of the Type 45 programme gives an largest individual market of its kind in the services business which relies on applying excellent platform for the next four to five world and is estimated to be around ten well proven processes on new contracts to years for Shipbuilding to build upon.
times the size of the UK market.
We have deliver customer performance requirements therefore budgeted to increase our business and acceptable returns.
During 2003 04 we will intensify our development activity to position ourselves discussions with BAE Systems Thales and to win more work.
We have an excellent People MoD regarding our involvement in the base in the USA with VT Grifn and, with VT is a people business.
Including our share Future Carrier CVF programme.
If their track record and the skills we possess of the joint ventures we employ in excess of successful, the CVF programme will provide elsewhere in the group we should see an 10,000 and our customers rely on the VT with a substantial workload both for increasing USA order book from 2004 performance of our people to deliver design work and manufacturing.
products and services to meet their commence during the 2003 04 year with demanding needs.
We have introduced a manufacturing starting around 2006.
The The UK education market is potentially programme to establish a performance opportunities in the export market for ships larger than the defence market, but it is culture and increase individual contributions.
are also encouraging with a number of in its infancy regarding outsourcing to the We must continue to initiate and lead major countries requiring well equipped Offshore private sector.
We have established change programmes to deliver business Patrol Vessels or Fast Attack Craft.
The ourselves as a major provider of services case benets.
The motivation of our need to protect individual countries to the Department for Education and Skills employees is critical to our success.
economic zones as well as the protection and are well placed to continue to grow this of coastlines has created a significant business sector.
Customers and Partners requirement for this type of vessel which VT During the past twelve months we have has a good track record of providing.
There are ample opportunities for VT Group worked hard at developing improved Needless to say, competition will be strong to continue to grow.
We will continuously relationships with our customers and and in many cases the governments seek to improve our performance in order to partners.
In particular, we have held a concerned require manufacturing to take maximise the benets of this growth for our number of senior management workshops place at facilities in their own countries.
with BAE Systems on a variety of subjects.
As already demonstrated by our contract This has resulted in establishing a way with Elefsis in Greece, we are more than forward on both some specic projects as capable of meeting the needs of technology well as a general understanding of the transfer and constructing ships to our export warship market.
We have also design offshore.
developed an excellent working relationship with BAE Systems on the Type 45 and the In Support services, the market in the UK Future Carrier CVF programmes.
Our Defence sector remains good.
There are a performance history of delivering on time number of PFI PPP opportunities ranging and to cost continues to hold us in good from aireld services and military ying stead with the Ministry of Defence MoD.
training to training the personnel of all three Our growing education business puts us services.
