The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Chief Executives Review: I remain pleased with the Groups progress during 2003, as our clearly defined strategy for sustainable growth was pursued with increasing purpose and determination.
The decisive steps taken by our management team to deliver market-leading products while accelerating productivity gains, produced stronger order input, operating profits and margins compared to 2002.
All of our businesses remained robustly managed during the year, with the implementation of actions to improve our competitiveness and grow shareholder returns.
The leadership status of our Minerals and Services Divisions and the significant progress made in the Clear Liquid, Valves & Controls and Techna Divisions, position us well to deliver on our objective of sector best performance.
One of our great strengths is the spirit and determination of our people.
We recognise that each of our employees makes a real difference in our ability to satisfy customers and deliver growing returns to our shareholders, and I thank them for their significant contribution in the year.
Continued progress on our journey to excellence Back in 2001, we took a fresh look at the Groups long-term vision and developed strategies to become a leading engineering company producing consistent financial performance in areas that offer superior growth, profit margins and financial returns.
Since then, we have reorganised the business into five core divisions, reaching and, in many instances, exceeding our key financial and operational objectives while taking important steps in achieving sector best performance from all our operations.
Our Minerals and Services Divisions continued to perform well, growing their already significant leadership positions through extended geographic and product offerings.
Operational improvements and the benefits of synergies from within the Group produced earnings, profit and margin growth when compared to 2002.
Our Valves & Controls and Clear Liquid Divisions overcame demanding operating conditions and are now well positioned to succeed in a growing market environment.
New product launches, improving operational performance and more focused product portfolios aimed at the most attractive markets provide solid foundations to deliver stronger financial performance in 2004.
As predicted, our Techna Division continued to experience a tough trading environment due to the deferral of major contract awards in both our defence and desalination activities.
Improved input, coupled to the actions taken by our management team to control costs, reversed a first half loss, closing the year with a small full year profit.
The good level of 2003 input and strong enquiry levels from all of our core sectors are expected to deliver an improved performance in 2004.
Our Joint Venture and Associate investments performed well in 2003 with Devonport Management Limited increasing turnover and profit when compared to last year.
Their leadership position in the original equipment critical service area of the UK defence industry positions the business well for continued growth.
8 Chief Executives Review Strong input growth in 2003 was delivered by a combination of strategies, which are progressively forming Weirs distinctive and sustainable competitive advantage.
Our investments into new products, and expansion into strategically important growth markets are essential conduits for organic growth.
Pursuing our vision During 2003, four greenfield service centres opened in Houston, Los Angeles, Philadelphia and Chicago providing our Services Division with key Our successes in 2003 across a large number of key operational, financial, footholds well placed to serve local market demand.
health and safety and environmental measures, validates our core belief that operational improvements provide the best short-term potential to deliver In the Minerals Division, we installed a new management team in our India the earnings and competitive improvements which are key to our future operation and relocated the business from Delhi to Bangalore to better financial objectives and growth aspirations.
The division has also appointed regional managers responsible for North America, South America, Europe - Africa and During 2003, we made sound progress in implementing the strategic Asia Pacific whose specific task is to drive growth in each region.
In the changes required to deliver on these ambitions.
Valves & Controls Division, we have established three regional sales offices in China, South Korea and the Middle East which strengthen our ability to Pursuing operational excellence support our customers locally.
We were able to move forward with our agenda for operational excellence, We have also benefited from the increasing levels of synergy between the building on the foundation stones laid in 2002.
The Weir Production System, launched in 2002, includes a variety of management tools targeted at Groups divisions particularly Services and Techna where opportunities to cross sell the Groups products are being maximised.
In Services, we eliminating inefficiencies, reducing errors and sharing best practice across the Group.
continue to see benefits from our alliances with Siemens, Scottish and Southern Energy and VA Tech.
During the year, we continued to reap the benefits of this programme reducing rework, scrap and warranty while streamlining the processes In 2003, we continued to hone our corporate development strategies pursuing opportunities to add strategically compatible companies to the required to deliver world-class products and services to our customers.
Group, aligned technically, geographically, structurally and financially with Building our skills & developing our leaders our growth strategy.
We recognise that leadership is an essential element in achieving our ambitions and during 2003 we continued to invest in the development of Prospects going forward our leadership skills and strengthening of our management team.
Our operational plans remain on track to deliver sector best performance Our intense two week leadership training programme, which was launched while our investment in new products and expansion into strategically with our High Potential team, formed the basis for a tailored one week important markets are now beginning to drive the Groups growth.
leadership training programme which was attended by all Group managing directors in November 2003.
While the volatility of exchange rates has had little net impact on our 2003 results, the recent trends in currency markets, if sustained throughout We are already seeing the benefits of aligned training and consistency across the year, would adversely affect the value of overseas profits translated the Group with an increased desire to co-operate, breaking down traditional into Sterling.
cultural, geographic and product boundaries and creating a strong Weir culture with a high degree of synergy across the executive team.
In contrast to last year the sensitivity of the FRS17 method of accounting for pension costs to world equity markets and interest rates should reduce costs We rigorously reviewed our employee appraisal system and career by approximately 3m.
development programmes and, as a result, all personal development programmes have been enhanced.
Within the Engineering Products businesses, all three divisions are budgeting in local currency to deliver the benefits of productivity improvements and Health, safety and environment increased market penetration with the roll out of new product launches as Our Group policy is to maintain and continually improve our working the year progresses.
conditions and to provide a safe and healthy environment for our employees.
In the Services Division, we have been successful at delivering market gains, Actions initiated in 2002 to challenge our world-wide companies to improve which we fully anticipate to continue in 2004.
Significant margin our health and safety performance continued into 2003 with year on year improvements were delivered in 2003 and we are not expecting further lost time accident statistics improving 32% in 2002 and a further 27% in margin improvements in 2004 due to the one-off set-up costs necessary to 2003.
Plans have been drawn up to deliver further significant reductions establish our presence in the United States market and grow our positions in 2004. elsewhere.
We also outlined our intention to mandate all Group-owned operations to Our Techna business returned to profits in the second half of 2003 following attain formal accreditation to ISO 14001 in recognition of our ambitions to successive periods of project delays in many of their core markets.
Important improve the environmental impact of all our businesses.
It is pleasing to contract wins for sulphate removal, desalination, liquid gas storage and report a good level of progress achieved across all divisions and our ambition nuclear activities provide a more stable foundation for 2004 with a number to gain full compliance by close of 2004 remains entirely deliverable.
of contracts reaching profit recognition milestones in the second half.
Desalination and defence contract awards are expected to deliver further input growth in 2004.
Pursuing growth While the sluggish market conditions in the first half of 2003 will have an The achievement of our goals starts with strong leadership and by ensuring ongoing impact, particularly in the first half of 2004, the Weir Group is now our products and services are globally competitive and of the highest quality.
well positioned to capitalise on the recovery in our established markets and With both leadership and operational excellence strategies now well to deliver ongoing growth in the emerging economies.
entrenched, we are able to focus more directly on growth.
Our growth is fuelled by a steady stream of new differentiating products and services, which, we are confident, will become the future life-blood of the company.
We committed extensive funds to research and development which have enabled us to bring a significant number of new products to market, tailored to our customers specific requirements.
In the Clear Liquid Division, the Mark Selway Chief Executive new product lines included the Uniglide range and the Rotojet VSR 2100 pump which is already regarded by power sector customers as a major 16 March 2004 technical innovation due to its reduced size and energy saving properties.
