Chief executives review Our objective at the start of 2002 was to double the size of our Homes business within five years we are ahead of our plan.
Westbury has had a very consistent strategy for its business which goodwill amortisation grew by 20% to 100.5 million 2002: 83.7 million.
has, over many years, delivered an impressive growth record.
We have The operating margin for the core Westbury Homes business increased consistently produced improving results for shareholders based on from 15.0% to 15.8%.
our long-standing focus on turnover growth in the core Homes business, which has been achieved through both organic expansion and In total we sold 4,461 homes during the year at an average selling price acquisition.
Last year we set ourselves the objective of doubling our of 171,500, compared with 3,739 units at an average of 137,400 in the housebuilding turnover within five years, and the Prowting acquisition previous year.
Sales through the established Westbury regions were 2% this year has taken us further ahead than originally expected towards lower than in the prior year at 3,660, while the average selling price grew achieving that goal.
As well as delivering synergies and enhancing by 22% to 167,000.
This further growth in the average selling price was earnings, the integration of this business has strengthened our land driven principally by our continued strategic shift towards prime locations holdings and extended our geographical reach.
In particular, it has and improved designs, as represented by our emerging Renaissance increased our exposure in the South East, where the UKs fastest product range.
We estimate that underlying house price ination across population growth is projected.
our operating regions during the year was some 9 -10%.
Market background In addition to the core Westbury operations, we sold 801 Prowting units The fundamentals of the UK housing market remain very solid, with the during the eight months of our ownership, at an average selling price supply of new homes consistently falling below the rate of household of 192,400.
The operating margin of the acquired business, at 10.8%, formation: the shortfall is estimated at some 40-50,000 homes per year.
was substantially lower than that of the core business due to factors Employment remains stable, and low interest rates mean that affordability which were well known to us at the time of acquisition and which have continues to be high by historical standards, despite the well-publicised already been addressed.
The most significant of these was the existence rise in house prices in recent years.
Like all markets, housing tends to of a number of underperforming sites, many of which were sold out by react adversely to uncertainty, and the global political and economic scene the year end.
The small number of these sites that remain will be built out in late 2002 and early 2003 has been more unsettled than for many years.
and sold in the first half of the current year.
In addition, the Prowting Nevertheless, demand has remained robust and we would characterise range included too many complicated, non-standard products which the market in early 2003 as one returning to more sustainable levels.
were intrinsically less profitable to produce.
We are now focusing the Prowting business on traditional sites and the use of standard products Westbury Homes to improve margins to Westbury levels.
The enlarged Homes business, including Prowting, increased turnover by 41% to 789.9 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation A further reason for Prowtings lower profitability was its high fixed and exceptional costs by 40% to 117.3 million 2002: 83.7 million.
cost base, including a head office and five regional offices.
This was The turnover of our core Westbury Homes business increased by 13% rationalised to just two regional offices within three months of the to 633.9 million 2002: 559.5 million and operating profit before acquisition.
4 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Through the actions we have taken, we The planning environment remains problematic and we welcome believe that the operating margin of the any initiatives designed to improve the speed and efficiency of the acquired business will increase to match planning process.
However, we are not convinced that the current that of the core Westbury regions in the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Bill and Communities Plan will course of the current year.
result in any significant alleviation of the difficulties which we and other housebuilders have experienced for many years.
The Prowting business has been completely integrated under the Westbury brand, Construction costs and we do not intend to report separately Continuing skills shortages were again the main feature of the year, on the performance of Prowting in future.
driving a further double-digit percentage increase in labour costs.
All rationalisation and reorganisation has The building material cost climate, by contrast, remained benign, with been completed, and no further already low inflation moderating further in the course of the year.
exceptional costs relating to the This combination produced overall build cost inflation of some 5-6%.
Recently there has been a marked increase in investment in training Land and planning across our industry, which in time should help to alleviate the Our land bank at the year end totalled fundamental problems caused by shortages of traditional skills and an 39,100 2002: 27,400 plots, comprising ageing workforce.
However, this initiative is unlikely to make a significant 15,000 2002: 12,100 plots with planning difference to the cost climate in the short term.
consent with terms agreed on a further 1,100 2002: 1,300 plots and strategic land Business development holdings of 23,000 2002: 14,000 plots.
Space4 The increase in the year reflects in part the benefit derived from the Our long term strategy recognises the need to develop new methods and Prowting acquisition.
technologies which will reduce our dependency on skilled labour and deliver superior choice and quality to our customers.
Space4, our off-site The Prowting acquisition has substantially strengthened our land manufacturing operation, is now an integral part of our construction holdings, and our prime focus during the second half was on processand offers a rapid assembly capability unmatched in the industry.
rationalisation to eliminate overlaps and to achieve the optimum Our high volume, automated factory in Castle Bromwich turns out one balance of land across all our operating regions.
In total we realised house shell per hour, complete with factory installed doors and windows 17 million from the sale of surplus land, supporting our debt reduction and high performance insulation.
Each shell is assembled on site to programme.
As a result of this process, we ended the year with an create a secure, weather-proof, roofed structure within a single working attractive and well-balanced land bank, giving us a strong base from day.
Houses are completed in the normal way, achieving savings of up which to grow.
to half the time taken by conventional build methods.
Over 1000 Space4 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 5 houses have been built since the factory came on stream in 2001 and the Future growth response from customers has been excellent.
We believe that the Group is well positioned to achieve further profitable growth in the current year.
Increased volumes will be derived in part We made a number of process and product changes within Space4 to from the first full year contribution from Prowting, now successfully improve efficiency within the business during the first half of the year.
Margins in the former Prowting business will As a result the volume output from Space4, at around 600 homes, was improve progressively to core Westbury levels, as its remaining poorly considerably lower than initially intended and resulted in an operating performing sites are completed and sold.
loss of 3.5 million for the year.
However, we now expect considerable volume growth in this financial year and a break-even position should Across the Homes business as a whole, we will continue to focus on be achieved in the second half of the year.
prime sites and premium products that meet the requirements of the post-PPG3 planning environment, as well as the high quality and good Westbury Direct design that our customers expect.
The Renaissance range, developed This was yet another record year for Westbury Direct as it continued in response to PPG3, will account for a steadily increasing proportion to expand the range of home-related products and services offered to of our sales.
It produced a contribution to operating profit in excess of 2.75 million for the year.
We welcome the Governments initiatives to increase the supply of affordable housing in the South East, where the Prowting acquisition has Incresco left us strongly placed with substantial strategic land holdings in most of Incresco, our financial services company, has yet to realise its potential the proposed areas of development.
The Government is also keen to and reported a loss of 1.2m in the year.
Incresco continues to provide promote off-site construction to improve capacity and efficiency in our a reliable mortgage and insurance service to our customers and has industry, and this should help to create further opportunities for Space4.
achieved particularly strong growth in online sales.
We are confident that this, together with measures taken in recent months to increase the Although, there are wider economic uncertainties that may impact upon volume of leads, will ensure that this business will produce a satisfactory us, and the market generally, we believe that the strategic fundamentals outcome for this year.
of our market, and of our business, are sound.
This gives us confidence in our ability to deliver continued growth for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
More generally, the enhanced volumes arising from the Prowting acquisition will support the value adding growth of all these new business activities.
Martin Donohue Chief Executive 6 Westbury plc Annual Report 2003 Our holistic approach integrates everything from the day we purchase the land, to the day you move into your new Westbury home.
We needed a home with something for everyone in our family.
