Chief Executives Review Each of our three channels has made strong progress in developing its business over the year and is well placed to meet the regulatory and competitive challenges ahead.
Importantly, the business is now very broadly further 14 units.
The average shop size of all of turnover albeit at low margin, and growth in based, having benefited from channel, product these developments was considerably above the traditional over the counter business.
and market diversification in recent years.
the estate average, with over 1000 square feet of customer area estate average c. 600 square Gross win from FOBTs and Amusement With This is perhaps best illustrated by the growth in feet.
A further 70 shops benefited from more Prizes machines AWPs was 100.5m, up remote channels, which has been achieved minor facelift improvements.
59.0m, due to the aggressive roll out of FOBTs without cannibalisation of the high street retail from April 2003 and despite the loss of some business.
In 2000, only 14% of the Groups 8.1m of income from AWPs.
Some of the gross win and less than 11% of Group Costs incurred by the retail channel increased growth in this income will also represent operating profit derived from these channels.
In by 21.6m 10% compared to the substitution from traditional over the counter 2003, 22% of gross win and 30% of operating corresponding period driven by a combination business albeit not capable of separate profit came from the remote telephone and of increased activity, such as extended trading quantification.
Notwithstanding this interactive businesses in which William Hill and the increase in the number of betting substitution effect, gross win on traditional over enjoys a very strong market position.
opportunities, and normal inflationary pressure.
the counter business grew by 7.4% to 405.1m, Of the total increase, 10.3m related to driven by a combination of extended opening Notwithstanding the success of our telephone hours, product innovation and estate increases in staff costs, of which 4.4m related and interactive businesses, the most significant development.
to the costs associated with extended opening, event to impact this years performance was the 3.2m reflected inflation-related pay increases, accelerated rollout of fixed odds betting and 2.5m related to management bonuses.
terminals FOBTs into the retail estate.
These At the end of the year we had 3239 FOBTs A further 5.7m related to increases in property self service terminals give customers access to deployed across the estate, and 2454 AWPs, costs, including 2.2m for the installation of a variety of numbers betting products.
giving an average density of 3.6 FOBTs AWPs per licensed betting office LBO.
Machine rentals for FOBTs and AWPs number of FOBTs through the year was 2,400 The Gaming Board of Great Britain GBGB and the cost of the related communications and for AWPs was 2,700, and the average initially challenged the legality of these network increased by 2.5m.
The cost of profitability after all rental and revenue share terminals, claiming that they believed them to pictures and audio supplied by SIS increased by costs for FOBTs was 380 per terminal per be gaming machines.
After extensive 1.7m as a consequence of the new agreement week.
discussions, the GBGB and the Department of reached in May 2002 and the additional Culture, Media and Sport DCMS have horseracing and other products provided during determined that, with the signing of a Code of Horse racing gross win grew in absolute terms the year.
Conduct governing the deployment of these for the first time in four years, and the share terminals, it is no longer in the public interest represented by bets on greyhound racing to pursue the legal challenge.
Work continued throughout the year on remained steady at 21% of total gross win.
defining our requirements for an electronic bet Virtual racing horseracing and greyhounds We naturally welcome this agreement and products grew significantly following their capture and settlement EPOS till system and believe it paves the way for a constructive introduction in May 2002.
Gross win on football for replacement of text systems that deliver working relationship, based extensively on selfbusiness was flat excluding the impact of the audio-visual information to customers in LBOs.
regulatory codes of conduct, with the future World Cup in 2002.
We fully expect to be in a position to award key Gambling Commission.
contracts in support of these programmes during the first half of 2004.
Based on our work We finished the year with 1,586 LBOs, a net Retail increase of seven units over the year.
During to date, we expect our technology programme the year, we opened 13 new LBOs, resited 28 Turnover was 4,751.8m up 93% due to the to cost 40m to 50m over the next three years, shops to improved locations and extended a roll out of FOBTs, that generate significant and to result in operating costs of 3m in 2004.
Telephone shifted our marketing focus from the Far East to During 2004, we expect some relaxation in Telephone is our most mature channel, and is selected European markets, and as the first half these factors and anticipate that these elements also the business that faces most competition, of 2002 included the World Cup.
During the of our interactive offering will grow at a faster from a combination of increased call centre second half of the year, this part of the business rate.
capacity amongst traditional competitors, but generated significant gross win growth as new also from new entrants, including betting markets were penetrated and new arcade Costs increased by 8.4m 39% as the exchanges, into remote gambling.
games proved popular with customers.
businesses promoted its enhanced offering and Against this background an 11% increase in provided incentives to customers that in turn The change in market focus has also resulted in gross win to 56.5m is a very creditable led to growth in gross win.
Marketing and a change to the underlying sports products.
Growth in football gross win has promotional costs increased by 4.4m and the Football, which was by far the dominant been strong with the most significant new costs of managing and processing client funds product in the Far East, now represents only product contributing to this increase being increased by 2.6m.
31% of channel gross win, and the increase in betting in running on major televised football UK business has resulted in growth in horse events.
The majority of income was earned from UK racing, now 36% of channel gross win.
domiciled clients, a situation which was Horseracing is still the main sport for betting Different overseas markets demonstrate exacerbated by the rapid slow down in via the telephone, and our continuing different propensities to bet on other sports revenues from Far Eastern markets following dominance of this channel reflects the strength which is why 19% of online gross win is from the outlawing of internet gambling by Hong of our brand amongst more sophisticated, non core sports, significantly more than either Kong and subsequent banning of gambling higher staking racing clientele.
The progressive launch of transactions by many credit card issuers.
Tight cost control meant that all of this increase four arcade products throughout the year dropped through to the bottom line and the helped numbers betting to grow to 7% of Protectionism is also rife in some European division generated operating profit of 22.2m channel gross win.
markets, notably Holland, Germany and Italy.
the wake of the Gambelli decision in the The online casino benefited from the European Court of Justice, we are strongly introduction in January 2003 of person to lobbying the European Commission to ensure person poker and later in the year dedicated Interactive enforcement of unrestricted cross border language sites which significantly boosted The interactive channel includes our online trading.
We have voluntarily stopped taking growth.
Despite very significant competition sportsbook and arcade, casino and poker sites, sportsbook bets from these jurisdictions, just as estimates range from 1400 to over 3000 online and wireless Internet WAP and interactive we do not accept sportsbook bets from US gaming sites, the evidence is that customers television businesses.
We remain of the view prefer to conduct their online business with the that we are operating legally in the UK and that Gross win from these operations grew by 55% strongest brand names, so we remain confident the responsibility for complying with other to 84.9m.
The fixed cost nature of this of our ability to retain market share.
countries laws rests with the customer.
We will business meant that a high proportion of the Mobile Internet and interactive television continue to make country specific judgements increase fed through to the bottom line and continue to be small parts of this business.
regarding accepting online business balancing operating profit increased 81% to 37.1m.
Both are to some extent constrained by the the size of the opportunity against the potential In the early part of the year, the sportsbook and immaturity of the underlying technology, and costs associated with defending our position.
5 investigation into the compilation and Cost of content Business development dissemination of computer forecast formulae, The commercial arrangement with the British We have now fully integrated our two the focus of the OFT is not on bookmakers.
As Horseracing Board BHB for the use of data greyhound stadia, Sunderland and Brough regards the investigation into forecast came into force in 2002 and is mirrored in the Park, and are very pleased with the formulae, the Association of British horseracing levy.
Due to uncertainty performance of both.
Between them they Bookmakers ABB is responding fully with surrounding the future governance of British contributed 1.6m to trading profit, despite the ongoing investigations and we do not envisage horse racing given the ongoing Office of Fair latter only being under Group ownership since any outcomes materially detrimental to the Trading OFT review, the government has March 2003.
announced that the levy will continue for at We have also fully integrated the H&K LBO least one more year until September 2006.
We On the high street, we continue to compete chain, which is also delivering profitable do not anticipate any attempt to increase the with the other large national multiples, as well growth in line with our aspirations at the time cost of data during this period.
as with various smaller local independents.
We remain interested in There has been some evidence of an increase in The betting industry has commercial acquiring LBOs that meet our strict return on competition for new licences as some arrangements in place with all 59 British race investment targets.
magistrates have relaxed their interpretation of tracks for the provision of horse racing pictures the demand criteria in anticipation of We keep an open mind as to the potential for in LBOs.
49 of these tracks have a contract in regulatory modernisation.
However, we horizontal diversification into other forms of place until December 2004.
The industry is in continue to enjoy success in contesting gambling, or further vertical integration, and active individual negotiations with a number of applications for new licences by competitors, continue to evaluate opportunities as they arise.
these tracks with a view to agreeing a new and to win new licences ourselves.
To date, a number of new Share buy back contracts have been signed resulting in some In our telephone and interactive businesses we two-thirds of the current fixture list being We are committed to maintaining the efficiency face a range of competition from traditional covered until at least the end of 2007.
The new of the Groups balance sheet, and to maximising domestic fixed odds bookmakers, global online contracts place greater emphasis on the value creation for shareholders.
Accordingly, we gaming providers, and providers of niche provision of betting friendly racing.
We are maintain under constant review our options for betting services such as spread betting and therefore confident of our ability to continue to returning surplus capital to shareholders in the betting exchanges.
Whilst it is impossible to provide coverage of horse racing without most efficient manner.
In this context, the measure accurately market share in these material cost increases.
Group intends to seek authority from businesses, the level of growth we have shareholders at the forthcoming Annual experienced, despite such competition, gives us Our agreement with the football leagues for General Meeting to buy back up to 10% of the confidence that we are more than holding our football betting runs for LBOs until the end of issued share capital.
the 2005 6 season, and for remote channels until the end of the 2003 4 season.
Any attempt Regarding exchanges, we are disappointed that to increase payments to the football leagues neither DCMS nor Customs & Excise have beyond normal economics will of course be changed their stance regarding the licensing strongly contested, and we do not anticipate and taxing of layers, but we continue to lobby material increases.
and are hopeful that the current process of prelegislative scrutiny in connection with the draft The betting industry, via Bookmakers Gambling Bill will result in a more constructive Afternoon Greyhound Services Limited, has indication of future government policy in this agreements in place for afternoon greyhound area.
meetings that comprises 95% of bets taken on greyhound racing through to December 2005.
Whilst there remains some pressure for an Regulatory development increase in the voluntary levy for the greyhound industry, we do not anticipate a Clauses of the draft Gambling Bill are currently major increase in our overall costs.
being reviewed by the all party scrutiny committee under the chairmanship of John Competition issues Greenway.
We continue to lobby as regards the The OFT continues its root and branch review timing and content of this legislation.
With the exception of an 6 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
